Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3581-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
December 9, 1981
Industrial Projects Department
East Asia & Pacific Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             Rupiah (Rp) 625
Rp 100              US$0.16
Rp 1 million  =    US$1,600
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 metric ton (t)                   =     1,000 kilograms or 2,204 pounds
1 metric ton per year (tpy)              1,000 kilograms per year
1 kilocalorie (kcal)               =     3.97 British thermal units (BTU)
1 kilometer (km)                   =     0.6215 miles
1 ton of coal equivalent (tce)   =       one metric ton of coal with a calorific value
of 7,000 kcal/kg.
1 megawatt (MW)                    =     1,000,000 watts (W)
1 hectare (ha)                     =     2.471 acres
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -     Asian Development Bank
BAHTERA      -      P. T. (Persero) Pelayaran Bahtera Adhiguna,
a Government bulk products shipping corporation
BAMCO        -      Bukit Asam Mine Constructors, Project Management
Consultant for the mine component
BAPPENAS     -      National Planning Agency of Indonesia
CIDA         -      Canadian International Development Agency
CPCS         -      Canadian Pacific Consulting Services
EDC           -     Export Development Corporation, Canada
ESS          -      Eksplotasi Sumatera Selatan, the Southern Sumatra
operational unit of PJKA
KfW          -      Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
KP5BA         -     Kelompok Pelakusara Proyek Pengembangan Pertambangan
dan Pengangkutan Batubara Bukit Asam, an Indonesian
project organization for the Engineering Phase of the Project
MCD           -     Marine Consultants and Designers
MCS          -      Joint Venture of Montreal Engineering, Canadian
Pacific Railways and Swan Wooster
MKI           -     Morrison-Knudson International Company, Inc.
PERTAMINA    -      Indonesia State Oil and Natural Gas Entity
PJKA          -     Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api, the state railway of Indonesia
PLN          -      Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara, the state electric power
company of Indonesia
PNTB         -      Perusahaan Negara Tambang Batubara,
the state coal agency of Indonesia
POKKORLAK    -      Kelompok Koordinasi Pelaksana Proyek Pengembangan Pertambangan
dan Pengangkutan Batubara Bukit Asam, the Indonesian
Coordination Organization for Project Implementation
PTBA         -      P. T. (Persero) Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam,
the newly-created coal mining company
PT PANN      -      P. T. (Persero) Pengembangan Armada Niaga
Nasional, the national fleet development corporation
RC           -      Rheinbraun Consulting, GmbH
REPELITA     -      Five-Year Development Plan of Indonesia
tpy          -      metric tons per year
tkm          -      ton-kilometers
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April-March; i.e., FY 1981 covers the period April 1, 1981 - March 31, 1982
Industrial Projects Department/
East Asia & Pacific Projects Department
December 1981



INDONESIA                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ..............................................                   1
II.   THE PROJECT SECTORS ........................................    1
A.    Energy Resources,  Consumption and Sector Strategy   ....    1
1.    Development Strategy .............................                2
2.    Institutional Framework .........................    2
3.    Oil .............................................                 2
4.    Natural Gas .....................................                 3
5.   Hydro  ...........................................                 3
6.    Geothermal ......................................                 3
7.    Coal ............................................                 3
B.    The Power Sector .....................................                  5
.1.    PLN and The Role of the Sector in the Economy   ...    5
2.    PLN's Development Plan,  including Suralaya
Power Generation ................................                 6
C.    The Transport Sector .....           .......................            7
1.    General  .........................................                7
2.    Railways  ........................................                8
3.    Maritime ........................................                 8
III.    THE PROJECT  ................................................                  9
A.    Project Objectives ...................................                  9
B.    Project Formulation ...................................   10
1.    The Suralaya Power Scheme .......................    10
2.    Bukit Asam Coal Deposit  .........................   10
3.    Project Preparation - Bukit Asam Engineering Loan    11
4.    Major Design Alternatives  .......................   12
C.   Project Description   ............. ..             ..................    13
1.    Bukit Asam Mine  .................................    13
2.    Muara Tiga Mine .................................    17
3.    Mining Community ................................   17
4.    Railway and Communications System ....              ...........   18
5.    Tarahan Terminal  ................................   20
6.    The Ship ........................................   22
7.    Kertapati Terminal  ..............................   23
8.    Environmental Considerations  .....              ...............   24
9.    Coal Exploration Program ........................   25
D.    Project Execution and Implementation    ,              ..  .    .      26
1.    Executing Entities ..............................   26
2.    Overall Project Coordination  .....              ...............   31
3.    Project Management and Operational Assistance
for Project Components  ..........................   31
4.    Project Implementation Schedule ....               .............   35
This report was prepared by Messrs. B. Stenberg and E. P. Rodriguez and Mrs. J.
Wright of the Industrial Projects Department; and Messrs. G. Bain, E. Ohlund
and L. Siegel of the Transport Division, East Asia and Pacific Projects
Department.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-. ii. -
Page No.
IV.    CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT  ....... ..                   ..........    38
A.    Capital Costs ......            ...................................         38
B.    Financing Plan  ....       ......................                           42
C.    Procurement ................ ..........................                     44
D.    Allocation and Disbursement of the Bank Loan..                               45
V.    THE MARKET FOR INDONESIAN STEAM COAL AND ANTHRACITE                                46
A.  World Market Situation and Prospect .46
B.    The Market and MarketJing of Indonesian Coal                    ...         48
1. Demand/Supply Prospects                      .         ..48
2.    The Market for Bukit Asam Steam Coal                 .     .48
3.  The Market for Bukit Asam Anthracite  . .49
4.  Marketing of Bukit Asam Coal.                                           49
5. Coal Pricing Pol:Lcy    .                       .50
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                              ...52
A. Contractual Arrangements                       . . .52
B. PT Bukit Asam                        ...53
1.  Coal Pricing and Revenue Projections  . .53
2. Operating Costs   ..54
3. Financial Projections                  ..                                56
C. PJKA-ESS                         ...58
D.    Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Tests                              59
E. Major Risks                        ...61
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .62
A. Economic Rate of Return    ..62
B. Foreign Exchange Benefits    .                          .63
C. Institution Building.                                                           63
D.  Employment and Other Social Benefits   .                      .64
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .64



- iii -
CHARTS
3-1 Overall Project Implementation Organization
3-2 Organizational Structure of Railway Project Management
3-3 Project Implementation Schedule
3-4 Project Critical Path Schedule
ANNEXES
3-1 The Project Entities - Detailed Description
3-2 Muara Tiga - Detailed Description
3-3  Railway Component - Detailed Organization Chart for Project Management
3-4 PT PANN - Past Financial Results
4-1 Detailed Capital Cost Estimates (by Component)
4-2 Consolidated Working Capital Schedules--PTBA and PJKA/ESS
4-3 Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
5    International Market for Steam Coal and Anthracite
6-1 PTBA--Assumptions for Financial Projections
6-2  PTBA--Coal Production, Sales and Revenues, FY1981-94
6-3  PTBA-Consolidated Income Statement, FY1981-94
6-4 PTBA--Consolidated Sources and Application of Funds, 1981-94
6-5 PTBA--Consolidated Balance Sheet, FY 1981-94
6-6 Financial Rate of Return -- Assumptions and Calculation
6-7 Railway Component: Assumptions for Financial and Economic
Rates of Return
7    Economic Rate of Return--Assumptions and Calculation
MAP
IBRD No. 13232R-1 - Indonesia and Project Location



- iv -
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Reference                     Title, Date and Authors
A.  General    1. Milestone 3 - Selected Systems Report
October 1979 by MCS Consultants
2. Milestone 3 - Selected Systems Report-Addendum
November 1979 by MCS Consultants
3. Milestone 3 - Selected Systems Report-Addendum
No. 2 Cost Review Exercise
Terminal and Shipping System for
5 mtpy Training, January 1980 by
MCS Consultants
4. Milestone 6 - Final Report for Phase I
July-August 1980 by MCS
Consultants
B.   Mine       1. Re-evaluation of Cost Estimation of AB-Study
January 1980 by Rheinbraun Consulting
2. Milestone 6 - Coal Mine System
July 1980 by Rheinbraun
Consulting
3. Milestone 5 Report - Accounting Systems
May 1980 by PT Pamintori
Consultants
C.   Townsite  1. Planning of Workers Settlement for Bukit Asam
Coal Mining Plant by the Center of Planning
Studies, Institute of Technology, Bandung,
Indonesia
D.   Terminals 1. Tarahan Terminal Prequalification Report
June 1980 by MCS Cconsultants
2. Tarahan Terminal Tender Documents
by MCS Consultants
E.   Railway   1. Selective Railway Operating Statistics for ESS 1973-80
prepared by PJKA 1981
2. INDONESIA: Bukit Asam Coal Project - Selection of
Transport Route, April 23, 1981, AEPTR
3. INDONESIA: Bukit Asam Coal Project - Selection of
Axle Load, AEPTR



v 
Reference                     Title, Date and Authors
F.   Shipping  1. Marine Transportation Alternatives -
Preliminary June 20, 1979, by Marine
Consultant and Designers
2. Transportation Study of 4 mtpy Sea
Transportation and Suralaya Terminal,
November 1979 by MCS Consultants
3. Study of Five Marine Transportation
Alternatives Selected from June 1979.
Milestone 3 Report, September 7, 1979,
by Marine Consultants and Designers
4. Survey of Bulk Carriers for use as
Substitutes for Specialized Self-Unloader,
January 8, 1980, by Marine Consultants and
Designers
5. Survey of Bulk Carriers to Carry 40,000 CDWT
of Coal for Use as Substitutes for Specialized
Self-Unloader, Undated, by Marine Consultants
and Designers
6. Bukit Asam Coal Transport Study
1976 by E. G. Frankel
7. Appraisal of PT Bahtera Adhiguna
December 19, 1980 by PT PANN
8. Indonesia: Bukit Asam Project--Selection
of Transport Route, Office Memoranda
G.   International Coal Market
1.   Coal Resources, World Energy Conference (1977)
2.   Steam Coal to the Year 2000, International Energy Agency (1978)
3.   Coal--Bridge to the Future, World Coal Study (1980)
4.   The Growth of Steam Coal Trade 1980-90, H.P. Drewry (1980)
5.   1981 Coking Coal Manual (Including Thermal Coal and Anthracite),
Tex (1981)
6.   An Analysis of Current and Projected Coal Import Requirements
of Major Prospective Consuming Countries for Australiam Steaming
and Coking Coal (Draft Report, 1981)



- vi -
Reference                     Title, Date and Authors
7.   Interim Report of the Interagency Coal Export Task Force, US
Department of Energy (January, 1981)
8.   International Coal Trade, The Markets, The Prospects, Coal Week
and Coal Week International (1981)
9.   Coal Export Strategy Study, OECD (1979)
10.   The Outlook for Coal ... Promises, Promises, The Energy Bureau (1980)
11.   World Steam Coal Service, Z:Lnder Neris (1981)
12.   Symposium on World Coal Prospects, United Nations (1979)
H.   Contracts (Proposals and/or Agreements)
1. Mine: BAMCO Project Management Contract
Bechtel Teclnical Assistance Service Contract
2.  Townsite:  PT Encona Project Management Contract
3. Railway: CPCS Project Management/Operational
Assistance Contract
4. Tarahan Terminal: MCS Owner's Engineer Contract
5. Ship: MCD Engineering Contract
6. Project Monitoring: MCS Monitoring Group Contract
I.   Detailed Cost/Benefit Streams for the Rate of Return Calculation



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has requested a Bank loan of US$185
million equivalent to finance a portion of the foreign exchange component for
a coal mining development and transport project. The proposed Project would
produce about 3.0 million tons of coal per year from the Bukit Asam mine at
Tanjung Enim in South Sumatra of which 2.4 million tons per year (tpy) would be
transported by railway and sea to the Suralaya electric power station on West
Java, 1/ 0.4 million tpy supplied to a mine mouth power plant and the remaining
0.2 million tpy used by local cement plants and other domestic users. The
Project would be executed by three Government-owned companies: P. T. (Persero)
Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam (PTBA--a Government-owned coal mining company),
Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api (PJKA--the State Railway) and P. T. (Persero)
Pengembangan Armada Niaga Nasional (PT PANN--the national shipping development
corporation). In addition, Bank financing is made available under the Project
to initiate and fund the first tranche for a US$45 million expanded coal
exploration program in South Sumatra and Kalimantan. The Project forms part of
Indonesia-s national development strategy to diversify the country's largely
mono-energy economy by increasing the use of coal and other oil substitutes in
the energy sector. The mining/transport Project was prepared under a Bank-
financed Engineering loan (Loan S-9 IND--US$10.0 million, signed on May 19,
1978).
1.02      The mine and railway components of the Project were appraised in
October 1980 by Messrs. L. H. Cash (Chief), B. Stenberg, and E. Rodriguez
of IPD; Messrs. E. Ohlund and L. Seigel of AEPTR; and Mr. C. Wardell (Con-
sultant). The shipping component was appraised by Mr. G. Bain of AEPTR in
December 1980. A post-appraisal mission consisting of Messrs B. Stenberg
(Mission leader), E. Ohlund, E. Rodriguez and J.-C. Crochet and Mrs. J.
Wright was carried out in June/July 1981.   Loan negotiations were held in
Washington in November, 1981.
II. THE PROJECT SECTORS
A. Energy Resources, Consumption and Sector Strategy
2.01      Indonesia is endowed with abundant energy resources and has as yet
underdeveloped natural gas, coal, hydroelectric power and geothermal resources.
Prior to independence in 1945, the country relied to a large extent on coal
and hydroelectric energy for its commercial energy; subsequently, the avail-
ability and exploitation of indigenous oil have led Indonesia to develop a
petroleum-based energy sector rather than to exploit other available energy
resources. Recently, however, with the greatly increased opportunity cost of
using indigenous oil, the Government has formulated a strategy of developing
alternative energy sources.
1/   Suralaya power generation development is being financed under Ln 1708-
IND (the Eighth Power Project, signed June 1, 1979--US$180 million),
and Ln 1872-IND (the Ninth Power Project, signed June 13, 1980--US$250
million).



- 2-
1.   Development Strategy
2.02      The basic policy objectives of the Government in the energy sector,
as broadly outlined in Repelita III are: (i) intensification of energy
resource development and expansion of processing facilities; (ii) gradual
shift from a mono-energy to a poly-energy economy (primarily based on coal and
natural gas); (iii) improved efficiency of conversion and utilization; and
(iv) expansion of research programs. While Repelita III recognizes the
role of energy pricing and fiscal policy in regulating and directing energy
consumption as well as in stimulating exploration and development of energy
sources, specific policy measures designed to meet these needs are not con-
tained in the Plan. Detailed demand projections and costing of alternative
development strategies are also lacking. The Bank is carrying out an inten-
sive dialogue with the Government on these matters on the basis of an energy
assessment report dated August 1981.
2.   Institutional Framework
2.03      In May 1978, as part of a general reorganization of Government depart-
ments, the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) was established to coordinate
all activities in the energy sector. The Ministry has overall responsibility
for mining, oil, natural gas and electricity. It controls the state enter-
prises responsible for the execution of Government policies in the respective
energy sub-sectors: the oil and natural gas entity (PERTAMINA); the coal
agency, PNTB; and the public power utility, PLN. To facilitate coordination
of energy planning and policy, the Government also established an Interdepart-
mental Technical Committee on Energy Resources and charged it with developing
energy plans and policies; the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the latter
Committee are the MME's Directors-General of Oil and Gas and of Electric
Power, respectively. The Ministry further formed a Permanent Committee for
Energy Studies to assess energy technologies, deal with day-to-day energy
problems and prepare long-term projections for demand and supply. Recently
a ministerial-level National Energy Board was formed, with the Minister of
Mines and Energy as Chairman, to review the proposals of the Technical Commit-
tee, to establish the Government's energy policy and to give specific implemen-
tation instructions to the ministries concerned.
3.   Oil
2.04      Total oil reserves are estimated at about 50 billion barrels,
but reserves in the proven category have remained at 10-15 billion barrels
since 1970. Since January 1978, the Government has introduced important
incentives that have spurred exploration by concession holders. As a result,
production, currently about 1.6 million barrels per day, is expected to
increase to about 1.8 million per day in five years. On the other hand,
domestic consumption of oil--which equalled about 20% of Indonesia's crude oil
production in 1979--will continue to increase such that the net exportable
surplus, in absolute terms, is not expected to grow and may even decline.
This is an important factor behind the Government's decision to adopt a policy
of developing other indigenous energy sources such as natural gas, hydro-
electricity, geothermal steam and coal for internal consumption.



-3-
4.   Natural Gas
2.05      Natural gas reserves are about 34 trillion ft , of which 5 tril-
lion ft  represent gas associated iith oil production.  Current domestic
consumption is about 80 billion ft per year. Pipelines have recently been
laid to major industries such as steel and fertilizer factories and consumption
is expected to increase at about 15% annually during the next five years.
Following agreement with Japan a few years ago, exports of natural gas in
liquid form (LNG) have begun. A study of natural gas utilization funded
under Credit 451-IND 1/ will help determine both the potential usage of
natural gas in Indonesia and the amount of resources available.
5.   Hydro
2.06      The country has a hydroelectric potential of nearly 31,000 MW, of
which only about 2% is being used. The Government proposes to develop over
1,000 MW of hydroelectric generating capacity in Java by 1987. In particular,
the 700 MW Saguling hydropower project was identified in the Java System
Development Study funded by Credit 399-IND. 2/ This project is now being
implemented under the Tenth Power Project.  Detailed engineering and design
for the next hydropower project in Java, the Cirata project, also constitutes
a part of the Tenth Power Project. Development of the Asahan River in North
Sumatra, with a capacity of 600 MW, for use by an aluminum smelter is also in
progress. Rapid development of other hydro resources is constrained by the
lack of demand for electricity in islands having large hydroelectric potential
(Irian Jaya, Kalimantan, Sulawesi). Investigations of potential sites in the
populous islands (Java, Sumatra) are being accelerated.
6.   Geothermal
2.07      Indonesia has substantial geothermal energy potential and about 900
MW of generating capacity have already been proven. The fields are close to
the main population centers in Java and Sulawesi. A 30 MW plant with a future
planned capacity of 90 MW is being constructed by the state electricity
generating organization (PLN) at Kamojung in West Java. A further project
sponsored by Pertamina with an initial estimated capacity of 110 MW in Gunung
Salak, West Java, is being considered by IFC.
7.   Coal
2.08      Reserves.  Hundreds of coal occurrences are known to exist on the
islands of Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, Java, Timor and in Irian Jaya.
Substantial exploration work, however, has only been undertaken in Sumatra
where about 80% of all of Indonesia's geological coal resources are estimated
1/   Fourth Technical Assistance Project, Credit 451-IND, signed January 2,
1974--US$5.0 million.
2/ West Java Thermal Power Project (Power III), approved June 1973--
US$46 million.



- 4 -
to be. Due to different criteria used in estimates made by different sources
and the scarcity of reliable exploraltion data, resource figures vary consider-
ably and none of these can be considered to be reliable. The official WEC 1/
figure is 3,723 million tce 2/ (equa:L to about 6,515 million tons, assuming a
heating value of 4,000 kcal/Tg) whilea the Ministry of Mines and Energy quotes
a figure of 17,200 million tce, the majority being lignitic coal. Proven
reserves can be estimated at some 225 million tons in Sumatra (Ombilin,
Bukit Asam and North West Bangko). All other coal-bearing areas in Indonesia
must be classified as terra incognita with respect to reliable reserve figures.
Nevertheless judged by its geologicaL formations, the country's coal resource
potential is substantial.
2.09      Production and Consumption.  Local coal production in Indonesia has
been ongoing for centuries; however, organized coal mining did not begin
until the early 1900s, when private Dutch interests became involved in the
sector. The industry increased steadlily in Sumatra and Kalimantan to a peak
production of 2.0 million tons in 1941, but thereafter heavy competition from
cheaper oil drastically reduced domestic demand for coal to a low of 150,000
tpy in the early seventies. Following the oil crisis interest in coal was
renewed and rehabilitation measures increased production to 304,000 tpy in
1980, of which 161,000 tpy came from Bukit Asam and 143,000 tpy from Ombilin as
shown in the following table. Current mining operations, which remain heavily
subsidized since the sixties, are discussed in further detail in Chapter IV.
Development of Coal Production in Indonesia, 1939-80
('000 tons)
Mines
Year    Ombilin    Bukit Asam    Others    Total
1940      558           848         575       2,001
1966      101           185          34         320
1970       77            91           4         172
1978       87           177           -         264
1979       92           186           -         278
1980      143           161           -         304
Most of the coal production is consumed domestically for mine power gen-
eration, cement production, railway operation and tin mining and smelting
operations. During 1977-80, about 20,000 tons of steam coal have been exported
annually to South East Asian countries through international trading companies,
at a loss of about US$25 per ton. Exports of anthracite to Singapore, Malaysia,
and Taiwan, totalling 40,000 tons in 1979, yields a small profit.
2.10      Since nationalization in 1958, Indonesia's coal production and
marketing was the responsibility of a state coal agency, PN Tambang Batubara
(PNTB) operating unprofitably under the supervision of the Ministry of Mines
1/   World Energy Conference 1977.
2|   Ton of coal equivalent equal to 1 metric ton of coal with a calorific
value of 7,000 kcal/kg.



- 5 -
and Energy (Annex 3-1, paras. 1-15). A new company, PT Tambang Batubara Bukit
Asam (PTBA), was created in December 1980, to implement the proposed Project
and carry out exploration in the Bukit Asam area, leaving PNTB to operate the
Ombilin mine and pursue exploration and pre-investment work in other areas;
To fulfill these mandates, the organization, staff and financial resources of
both PTBA and PNTB will have to be substantially strengthened.
2.11      Development Plans.  In 1976, a Presidential Instruction that aimed
at the maximum possible utilization of coal for future domestic electric power
generation and industrial usage was issued (paras. 2.01-2.02). Repelita III
(i.e., the Third Five-Year Plan) gives first priority to the development of a
more balanced domestic energy production, encouraging the development of coal
for internal consumption wherever technically and economically feasible.
To date, efforts to do so have resulted in (i) the proposed Bukit Asam mine
expansion/Suralaya power plant project; (ii) coal reserve exploration in the
Ombilin basin, and ini:iation of a US$100 million rehabilitation program for
the Ombilin mines to increase output to 500,000 tpy primarily for regional
cement and power plant consumption, and (iii) an invitation to foreign companies
to explore and exploit the coal deposits in Kalimantan for export and domestic
consumption. PNTB has been negotiating production sharing agreements with ARGO,
UTAH, Rio Tinto, AGIP and CONSOL to undertake coal exploration and eventual
development in Kalimantan, four of these were signed in mid-1981. These
contracts allow the foreign partners 5 years to undertake exploration and
feasibility studies prior to an investment decision followed by a minimum of
3 years to bring a mine in production. Thus, under realistic assumptions
coal from Kalimantan cannot be expected to be available in significant
quantities before 1990. While the production sharing contracts are designed
for export, PNTB has reserved its right to buy all output at market prices.
2.12     As domestic demand for coal is estimated to reach about 10 million
tpy by 1990, it is now urgent to accelerate coal exploration and pre-investment
work for a number of well-known promising areas in Sumatra. These areas had
been explored during the 1974-78 period by Shell Mijnbouw, a Dutch subsidiary
of Shell, under a production sharing agreement with PNTB. After spending about
US$50 million and establishing about 100 million tons of measured reserves and
500 million tons of indicated reserves, Shell returned the concession. It had
become apparent that coal quality and mining/transport cost to Japan could not
compete with Australian and South African coal.  The Government unsuccessfully
requested Shell to consider mining coal for domestic consumption.
2.13      A Bank mission visited Indonesia in June 1981 to explore with the
Government its plans to intensify coal exploration and preinvestment work and
the institution building which would be required in order to execute an accele-
rated coal exploration production program with emphasis on the former Shell
concession in South Sumatra and promising areas in Kalimantan not covered by
production sharing agreements with private partners. As a result of these
discussions, the scope of work for a comprehensive Coal Exploration Program
was identified, which the Bank appraised in late October 1981. This
program will require US$45 million for detailed exploration and feasibility
study work in South Sumatra and preliminary exploration in Kalimantan. Details
are given in paras. 3.59-3.61.
B. The Power Sector
1.   PLN and the Role of the Sector in the Economy
2.14      Institutionally, the power sector consists of the Directorate
General of Electric Power, in the Ministry of Mines and Energy, and PLN,



which is statutorily responsible for all public sector power generation,
transmission and distribution and some municipal franchises. PLN came into
being in 1961 when three Dutch-owned electricity utility companies were
nationalized, but commenced effective operations only in 1972, when its new
charter gave it legal status as an autonomous entity with exclusive responsi-
bility for electricity supply in the country and when adequate foreign
financing became available for its expansion programs. 1/ Through 1976,
captive power plants--largely linked to industrial enterprises--grew rapidly,
but since then PLN has begun to fulfill its role as the main electricity
supplier. PLN's decision to reduce its excessive connection charges has been
a major factor in this development. In FY1979, PLN's KWh (kilowatt hour)
sales registered a 21.6% increase, the most significant annual increase so
far, and PLN expects to sustain an average annual growth rate of about 20%
through FY1986. Hence the share of captive generation, which is presently
about 40% in the total market, is expected to decline to about 25% by FY1986.
2.15      Despite PLN's progress since 1976, the per capita consumption of
electricity in Indonesia as a whole is still extremely low at about 76 KWh
in FY1981, compared to other Asian countries. Indonesia-s population has low
access to electricity due to a lack of distribution systems and generating
facilities. Only about 6% of households are connected in the country and
this figure varies from 9.6% in Java, 5.0% in Kalimantan, 4.3% in Sumatra,
4.2% in Sulawesi; 4.6% in Irian Jaya, to 2-3% in the other islands.
2.   PLN's Development Plan, including Suralaya Power Generation
2.16      General.  PLN has prepared a development plan for power in Indonesia
that envisages an increase in installed generating capacity from about
2,000 MW in FY1979 to over 7,300 MW in FY1987. Consistent with the overall
Government policy of expansion and diversification, the objectives of PLN's
development plan are to: (i) optimize energy resources utilization by
substituting use of oil by coal, hydro and geothermal resources for power
generation, and by reducing the use of fuel-inefficient installations; (ii)
realize economies of scale through larger-sized installations; (iii) achieve
operational economy by coordinating the utilization of plants through inter-
connected operations; and (iv) provide acceptable standards on reliability of
supply. PLN-s estimated investment for generation, transmission and distri-
bution to meet the development plan from FY1980 to FY1989 is US$11.0 billion
equivalent, in end-1979 prices, with a foreign exchange component of US$7.0
billion equivalent. The expenditure is planned to be phased over a nine-year
period, increasing from US$0.6 billion in FY1980 to an average of US$1.5
billion in FY1987 and thereafter. The Government has made appropriate
budgetary provisions in Repelita III to cover the period up to FY1984.
2.17      The investment program covers the country according to two geogra-
phically divided plans: one for the island of Java and another for territories
outside Java. Except for Sulawesi and Bali, PLN's development plan for the
territories outside Java is still being formulated and Java continues to be
1/   The Association and the Bank have made ten credits and loans for power
generation and transmission to Indonesia since 1968, amounting to
US$1,389 million in total.



- 7 -
the focus of power sector development in Indonesia. In FY1979, Java, with 63%
of Indonesia's population (85 million out of 135 million), accounted for 80%
of PLN's electricity sales. PLN plans to increase installed generating
capacity in Java from 1,547 MW in FY1979 to 4,609 MW by FY1987, an annual
growth rate of 14.6%, while generating capacity in all other territories is
planned to increase from 622 MW to 2,740 MW over the same period (19.4%
annually).
2.18      Suralaya Power Generation.  The Suralaya power generation project,
at the western tip of Java, plays a key role in PLN's overall development plan
for Java.  The Suralaya power plant is planned to have an ultimate installed
generating capacity of 3,100 MW, consisting of 4 x 400 MW and 3 x 500 MW
units.  In line with Government policy, the Suralaya power plant will use
coal.  The first stage of development consists of the installation of:  (i)
2 x 400 MW dual-fired (coal-oil) thermal generating sets (Suralaya I and II);
(ii) facilities for coal reception, handling and storage, ash disposal,
cooling seawater intake and discharge facilities, and fresh water supply;
and (iii) associated extra high voltage (EHV) transmission works of 500 KV
capacity over 725 circuit-kms. This stage is being implemented in two phases,
one for each unit, which are covered by Bank Loans 1708-IND and 1872-IND
(para. 1.01), respectively, and co-financed with ADB and export financing
sources. The subsequent stages would extend the EHV network to Surabaya in
East Java, and eventually increase capacity to 3,100 MW.
2.19      In parallel, the Government is developing the Bukit Asam coal mine
under the proposed Project in order to supply 2.4 million tons of coal annually
to Suralaya I and II, now scheduled to come on stream in October 1984 and
July 1985, respectively. It later plans to expand coal production levels in
South Sumatra and Kalimantan to supply about 12.0 million tons of coal annually
when the Suralaya power plant reaches its ultimate capacity of 3,100 MW. This
objective is reflected in the Government's effort to initiate pre-investment
work for a second or third coal mine in South Sumatra (see para. 2.13),
and to provide for the appropriate basic infrastructure under the Project.
C.   The Transport Sector
1.   General
2.20      Road transport accounts for the majority of all passenger and
freight (except oil) movements in Indonesia; Java, which comprises only 7%
of Indonesia's land area, accounts for 35% of all roads. However, other
modes do compete with and/or substitute for road transport in many places,
including railways, river traffic, aviation and even pipelines. Inter-island
shipping is important given Indonesia's archipelago nature. Between 1972 and
1978, passenger and freight traffic on scheduled airlines increased by nearly
20% per year. Railways and shipping are becoming carriers of bulk commodities
as Indonesia is expanding plantation crops (such as palm oil), building new
industries (such as fertilizer and cement), and planning expansion of mining
activities, particularly coal. Thus, transport modes are becoming more
specialized.



-8-
2.   Railways
2.21      Railways are mainly confirLed to two islands:  about 4,700 km of
track on Java and 2,000 km on Sumatra. The railways suffered from the decline
in exports in the 1950s and 1960s and were allowed to deteriorate. Limited
rehabilitation took place under the First Five-Year Plan (1969/70-1973/74);
and, as a result, freight traffic increased to over 1,100 million ton-kilometers
(tkm) in 1974. It declined again to a low of about 700 million tkm in 1976,
but has thereafter gone back up to about 1,100 million tkm in 1979. Passenger
traffic grew only slightly from 1974-76 but has since grown more rapidly
and reached about 5,600 million passenger-kms in 1979.
2.22      The railways' disappointing performance up to 1976 reflects a number
of factors, including delays in rehabilitation of its assets and in improving
its operations, excessive numbers of personnel, and weaknesses in the competi-
tive position of some services, particularly on Java. The comprehensive
program of modernization and rehabilitation that formed the basis of the
Bank's Railway Project 1/ was not carried out in accordance with the original
schedule. Nevertheless, some improvements in operations have been seen
recently. A Development Plan for the 1979-88 period emphasizes the marketing
of rail services based on realistic traffic projections, improved maintenance
of permanent way and rolling stock, and operation of larger and more reliable
trains. The railway will continiue to play an important economic role in
specific areas and services, such as long-distance movements of passengers
and bulk commodities on Java, and transport of coal in South Sumatra.
3.   Maritime
2.23      About two-thirds of the deadweight tonnage of the Indonesian domes-
tic shipping fleet has been used in the petroleum trade. Another quarter
corresponds to the ships used by companies in the Regular Liner Services
(RLS) that carry about half of the inter-island seaborne dry cargo movemeris.
Much of the remainder of the fleet is specialized vessels for offshore oil
operations and for carrying commodities such as salt, fertilizer and lumber.
Rehabilitation of part of the RLS was carried out under the First Shipping
Project. 2/ Provision of additional and some replacement vessels is underway
under a Second Shipping Project. 3/  Studies leading to preparation of an
integrated maritime project are being financed under the Second Shipping Loan
and will include ships, small port improvement, training, and provision of
shipping services to remote areas. In addition, the initial design of ships
for this proposed Project is also being financed from the Second Shipping Loan.
2.24      The country has about 300 registered ports scattered over the
archipelago, but only a few ports handle the bulk of the traffic. In 1974,
1/   First Railway Project.  Loan 1005-IND, signed June 14, 1974--US$48
million. For past PJKA project implementation performance see Project
Performance Audit Report, March, 1981.
2/   First Shipping Project.  Credit 318-IND, signed June 28, 1972--
US$8.5 million.
3/   Second Shipping Project.  Credit 1250-IND, signed May 20, 1976--
US$54.0 million.



- 9 -
only 16 ports each handled more than 0.5 million tons of domestic and foreign
traffic, and eight of these were primarily petroleum or lumber ports.
2.25      The Government has been emphasizing port rehabilitation works and
improved port operations to overcome serious congestion under the First
Five-Year Plan. Longer-term expansion needs were also studied in a series of
master plans and port loans by the Bank Group and other lenders. 1/ Port
projects have also included continued technical assistance and other measures
to improve customs procedures and port management, particularly cargo handling,
maintenance and accounting. It is anticipated that further expansion of the
Tanjung Priok port will be undertaken under Repelita III as a component of
the maritime project now under preparation (para. 2.23) and provision for
engineering this expansion, and for other project preparation activities, is
included in a forthcoming National Fertilizer Distribution Project.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives
3.01      Growth of domestic demand for oil in Indonesia is now outpacing
increases in oil production, and oil exports are showing a declining trend.
Urgent steps must therefore be taken to increase levels of investment in the
development of other energy sources in order to ensure continued and, if
possible, increased petroleum export earnings. Through the Presidential
Instruction issued in 1976, Indonesia is now committed to an increased use of
coal as a substitute for oil in order to maximize export earnings from oil.
The Presidential Budget Speech in 1977 reinforced this commitment by stating
that coal would be used in thermal power generation wherever possible and eco-
nomically justified.
3.02      The Project is a first step in this direction and it will:
(a) raise the current production capacity of the Bukit Asam
mine of about 150,000 tons of coal per year to about 3 mil-
lion tpy, predominantly to feed the first two units of the
Suralaya power plant development in West Java; and
(b) initiate an accelerated coal exploration program in Indonesia.
The exploration program would delineate additional coal
reserves and provide the Government with a series of pre-
feasibility and feasibility studies that would facilitate
and accelerate development of two to three new mines in South
Sumatra. These mines would provide coal for thermal power gene-
ration, first, for the next phase of the Suralaya power plant
development scheduled for commissioning in 1988/89, and, second,
for the Tuban power plant development in East Java scheduled for
1990/91.
1/   Tanjung Priok Port Project.  Loan 1337-IND, US$32.0 million.



-10 -
B.   Project Formulation
1.   The Suralaya Power Scheme
3.03      The Suralaya Power Scheme waLs identified by the comprehensive
Java System Development Study, financed through Credit 399-IND 1/ and carried
out by Preece, Carden and Rider (UK) in 1975-76. It will ultimately have
an installed electrical generating capacity of 3,100 MW. The scheme has
been subdivided to reduce annual financing commitments; Stage I and II,
for a combined 800 MW, are now being implemented under Loans 1708-IND and
1872-IND, respectively. 2/ In order to enhance phasing with coal development,
the thermal units are designed to burn oil and/or coal (dual-fired).
3.04      The selection of the Suralaya site in West Java was thoroughly
reviewed by the Japanese in feasibility studies prepared in 1977. MONENCO
of Canada in another feasibility study for which Loan 1127-IND 3/ provided
financing, confirmed that the Suralaya site is the most feasible location,
both technically and economically. Among the major technical constraints for
the plant to be at or near the Bukit Asam mine site was the fact that sufficient
cooling water for the first phase of the Suralaya Power Plant Development,
800 MW, was not available, not to mention the ultimate plant with a capacity of
3,100 MW. Having the plant located on. the sea-coast of Sumatra, where of course
sufficient cooling water is available, would not only require rail transport of
the coal but also a transmission cable across the Sunda Strait to Java, in
addition to the 500 KV lines required to connect it with Jakarta and Central
Java distribution grids. A submerged cable across the Sunda Strait, in lieu of
sea transport of coal across the Strait was found to be a much more expensive
proposition, apart from the question of the reliability of the submarine cable
and its effect on the total system operation, considering the possible seismic
activities in the area.
2.   Bukit Asam Coal Deposit
3.05      In 1976, the Bank was requested by the Indonesian Government to
assist with the preparation of a project to mine and transport coal from
an expanded Bukit Asam mine in South Sumatra to the Suralaya Power Develop-
ment. Initially, about 2.5 million tons of coal annually were envisaged,
thus substituting for about 9 million barrels of oil per year. The Bukit Asam
coal field was at that time, and still is, the best-explored coal deposit in
Indonesia with reserves of coal, suitable for power generation and other
industrial usage, in excess of 100 million tons--more than sufficient to
provide coal to the first stages of the Suralaya Scheme for at least 30 years.
The choice by the Indonesian Government to study a possible expansion of
the Bukit Asam mine to meet increasing domestic coal demands was appropriate,
1/   Third Power Project.  Credit 399-IND, signed June 22, 1973--US$46 million.
2/ Eighth Power Project. Ln 1708-IND, signed June 1, 1979--
U$180 million, and Ninth Power Project, signed June 13, 1980--
US$250 million.
3/   Fourth Power Project.  Loan 1127-IND, signed June 17, 1975--US$41
million.



11 -
particularly in light of the potential for additional coal development in the
area, as indicated by Shell Mijnbouw's of the Netherlands substantial explora-
tion program in South Sumatra in the mid-l970s.
3.   Project Preparation - Bukit Asam Engineering Loan
3.06      In 1976-77, the Government of Indonesia undertook a number of
studies to define the coal reserves more precisely and to select the ideal
mine and transport configuration for the Bukit Asam mine expansion. How-
ever, major issues relating to the determination of coal reserves and coal
quality variations, the selection of mining system, the preparation of a
mining plan and the selection of an optimal transport configuration were yet
unresolved. Consequently, it was agreed with the Indonesian Government, that
additional work was required to resolve these issues and to prepare compre-
hensive optimization and feasibility studies. This work was financed under
Engineering Loan S-9 IND (signed May 9, 1978, US$10.0 million) and the final
feasibility report, the Milestone 6 Report, was submitted in July-August 1980.
3.07      Under that Engineering Loan, consulting contracts were signed with
MCS Consultants (a joint venture of Montreal Engineering Company, Ltd.;
Canadian Pacific Consulting Services, Ltd.; and Swan Wooster Engineering
Company, Ltd. of Canada) for overall Project analysis and for detailed
studies on the railway, terminal and townsite components. Engineering
studies and cost estimates on the mine system were subcontracted by MCS to
Rheinbraun Consulting GmbH (FR Germany) and marine systems studies and design
were subcontracted to Marine Consultants and Designers (MCD) of USA/Canada.
About 10% of civil engineering work and the review of the accounting set-
up were subcontracted locally to IEC (Indonesian Engineering Consortium)
and PT Pamintori, respectively. Bechtel (US) was technical advisor for
KP5BA, the Indonesian Project Management Organization. After initial delays
in signing contracts, KP5BA implemented this phase of the Project on time,
effectively coordinating the work with the various Government entities
involved (PNTB, the State Coal Agency; PJKA, the State Railway; and PANN,
the national fleet development corporation).
3.08      In addition to defining the technical, institutional and cost aspects
of the Project components, the Project analysis included (i) a general assess-
ment of existing training facilities and the personnel situation in Indonesia,
particularly in South Sumatra, (ii) definition of general training and personnel
requirements and, consequently, (iii) recommendation of training programs (paras.
3.24-3.28, 3.41-3.43, 3.49-3.50, 3.55, 3.78, 3.80 and 3.84) that are considered
adequate by the Government and the Bank.
3.09      As Project preparation progressed, the Government decided with Bank
staff agreement that execution of the various project subsystems, and their
ownership and operation, would be the responsibility of the respective Govern-
ment entities (PTBA, PJKA, PANN/Bahtera), instead of creating a super agency
for the purpose. This approach is justified as the Project is seen as a first
stage of a series of coal development and related infrastructure projects and
thus, strengthening of functional entities is of vital long-term importance.
However, when adopting such a decentralized framework, overall coordination of
the different Project components becomes critical and is addressed in detail
below (paras. 3.81-3.82).



- 12 -
4.   Major Design Alternatives
3.10      Mining System.  The major task during mine engineering was to select
the optimal open pit mining system taking into consideration the specific
conditions at Bukit Asam. Overburden material/coal characteristics, in
combination with prevailing difficult climatic condition, had major impacts on
the system selection. Four alternatives--combining shovels, rigid frame as
well as articulated trucks, scrapers, bucket wheel excavators (BWE), conveyor
belts and waste material spreaders in different configurations--were evaluated
technically and economically. The Government selected a BWE mining system
with the Bank approving the choice. The BWE system was considered to be less
vulnerable to the climatic conditions, had a levelized 1/ operating cost/ton
of coal that was about 9% less than the second best alternative, and equal
initial capital costs. Other factors in favor of the BWE system are: (i)
some of the current personnel in the mine are familiar with BWE operations
(the mine was operated 1957-75 with the BWE mining method), and (ii) the BWE
mining system will not require the heavy periodical reinvestment (every 5-6
years), that is characteristic of truck and shovel systems.
3.11      Railway route selection.  In the selection of the appropriate
transport configuration, two alternative route systems were considered:
(a) the Eastern route by rail to Kertapati and then by barge from Palembang
via the Musi River and by sea to Suralaya, and (b) the Southern route by rail
to Panjang and then by ship across the Sunda Strait to Suralaya. In examining
these alternatives, both the initial 2.5 million tpy and the planned 5.6
million tpy capacities were considered. After a thorough study of the capital
and operating cost estimates as well as the risks inherent to each route, the
staff endorsed the Government's decision to proceed with the Southern route
for the Project. In particular, although the economic cost/benefit analysis
points to the Eastern route at a 2.5 million tpy capacity, the Southern route
is favored when larger coal volumes are considered, as are projected to result
from the coal exploration program and subsequent mine developments in South
Sumatra by 1988. In either case the quantifiable advantage/disadvantage are
within the margin of error of the underlying cost estimates. As the degree of
confidence associated with cost estimates for the Eastern route is considerably
less (within 15-25%) than that for the Southern route (within 10-15%), due to
the substantial difference in the amount of engineering undertaken on the two
routes, the desirability of the Southern route is most likely underestimated.
This analysis is documented in the Project file.
3.12      Apart from pure cost considerations, the arguments for the Southern
route are reinforced by uncertainties about navigation in the Musi river
and the length of the Eastern sea route. It has been assumed that river
navigation is feasible without complication or further cost, but this un-
proven assumption would have to be verified. Also, with a 560 km sea journey
for barges, there is a greater risk of loss of equipment or navigational
delays on the Eastern route than for the Southern route where the sea route
is only 100 km.
1/   Levelized cost is equal to the present value of the costs divided by the
present value of the physical benefits and is used for comparison of
alternatives only.



13 
3.13      Axle load decisior.  Iwo track standard alternatives, one allowing
18-ton axle load and the other 13 tons, were examined. The analysis (in the
Project File) leads to the choice of the 18-ton axle load alternative, which
does require strengthening of bridges but, on the other hand, would reduce
investments in motive power and rolling stock and operating costs.
C.   Project Description
1.   Bukit Asam Mine
3.14      The mining component of the Project consists of an expansion of the
existing coal mine at Bukit Asam. Based on the known average heating value of
5,200 kcal/kg for Bukit Asam coal, the first phase of the Suralaya power plant
development (Suralaya Units I and II) will require about 2.4 million tpy. An
additional 400,000 tpy will be required for a new 2 x 65 MW coal-fired power
plant to be built adjacent to the mine. Including the demand of other current
consumers of Bukit Asam steam coal a total mine output of 3.0 million tpy is
envisaged. A minor tonnage (115,000 tons) of anthracite will also be mined in
the future from the southern part of the deposit. As sufficient small-scale
mining equipment exists at Bukit Asam, this operation is not part of the
Project.
3.15      Coal reserves amounting to 124 million tons have been proven in the
four A and B seams (technically, the Al, A2, B1 and B2 seams) in the so-called
TABA concession. Additional coal reserves are available in the underlying C
seam but neither the quantity nor the quality is presently classifiable as
proven reserves. The mineable reserves in the A and B seams are sufficient
to supply Suralaya Units I and II for 30 years. To improve current knowledge
of coal quality in the A and B seams, and to prove the potential reserves in
the C seam, further drilling will be undertaken as part of the Project. A
decision to mine the C seam can be postponed until 1997, when a decision on
back-filling of overburden material into the pit must be made.
3.16      The mine will consist of an open pit operation employing a bucket
wheel excavator (BWE) mining system.  A BWE system is a device for efficient
bulk handling; and, when topography and physical overburden and coal character-
istics allow its application, as is the case for this mine, the system is
superior to any other mining system in terms of productivity and costs.
Annual coal production of 3.0 million tons will require overburden removal
during the first 5 years of Bukit Asam operations of about 17 million bank
cubic meters per year. Overburden removal requirements for the remaining 25
years of the mine life will average about 9 million bank cubic meters per
year. It is envisaged that five bucket wheel excavators are required, each
capable of excavating 4 million bank cubic meters of material (coal and
overburden) annually. Both coal and waste are to be transported from the
mining face by means of belt wagons and an extensive (30 km) belt conveyor
system to either the coal crushing facilities or the waste dumps. At the
waste dumps, two spreaders with a capacity of 5,000 tph each will dump the
waste according to a carefully worked out waste disposal plan, in order to
reduce the risk of dumpslides and to minimize the environmental impact.
Additional land outside the existing concession boundary will be required for
the waste dump, and land acquisition is in progress. The coal will be conveyed
to stockpiles with a total capacity of 250,000 tons in the vicinity of a train
loading station. The stockpiled coal will be reclaimed, loaded on conveyor
belts and transported to the train loading station.



- 14 -
3.17      Due to the relatively few mining faces and the fact that a major
part of the belt conveyor system consists of installations that have to be
fixed in their proper locations from the very start-up of the mine, a detailed
mining plan covering the lifetime of the mine had to be worked out. Deviations
from such a plan could delay coal release and prevent the mine from supplying
coal at the required rate. However, the layout of the mine will allow for
certain flexibility since equipment movement between different mining benches
is possible, and adequate stockpiles will enable the mine to cope with antici-
pated production disturbances caused by local conditions such as heavy rains.
3.18      Based on statistics covering a 30-year period, the average annual
precipitation in the area is 3,147 mm with an average of 162 days per year
with rainfall. Even during the dry season, the number of days per month with
some rainfall averages 8. Consequently, a substantial effort has been made by
the consultants when engineering and designing the final pit slopes, the
drainage systems and pump-station capacities in order to prevent the flooding
of working areas and slope failures. Slopes in the mine are designed with a
slope angle of 17 degrees, which is considered to be a safe slope. The
overall waste dump slopes are 8 degrees, which is equal to the slope angles of
existing stable waste dumps with similar material. The possible effect of-
seismic activity in the area has also been considered when planning the open
pit as well as designing the buildings for support facilities.
3.19      Scheduled working hours are calculated on a 7-day week and 3-shift
day basis, less 11 National Holidays and one shift each Friday (Moslem
holiday). The effective operating hours are the scheduled working hours less
time lost due to scheduled maintenance (1 shift per week), bad weather (heavy
rainfall) general maintenance and repair (breakdowns) conveyor shifting/equip-
ment maneuvering and an allowance for unexpected standstills in the rather
complicated BWE-conveyor-spreader systems. Of scheduled working hours, 47%
equal to 3,800 hours per year, has been used when calculating equipment
capacities and required mine output. The effective operating hours are
considered to be conservative and a certain spare capacity is available.
3.20      In addition to the basic mine layout described above, the mining
component includes:
(i) construction of access and service roads, preparation of benches and
drainage ditches, levelling of waste dumps and in-pit cleaning by a
fleet of track dozers, rubber-tired loaders, road graders, trucks
and scrapers;
(ii)  provision of cranes, trucks and pick-ups for speedy response to
equipment breakdowns and routine preventive maintenance by workshop
personnel;
(iii) construction of a new workshop with facilities such as a welding
shop, vulcanization shop, mechanical shop, machine shop, electrical
shop and equipment service bays;
(iv)  construction of a new warehouse, including an outdoor storage area;
(v) construction of an office building for maintenance and mine
supervisors, including a training center at the mine (the existing



- 15 -
office will be renovated and administrative and planning
personnel will be housed there);
(vi)  construction of two overhead 30-kV high-tension power lines from
the boundary of the mining area to a number of substations and
distribution points. From there, a distribution network will be
built to supply power to all electrical equipment facilities.
Some switchgear and transformers will be mobile and follow the
advance of the mining faces. Total installed drive power will be
about 40 MW; and
(vii)  installation of a communications system, radio and telephone,
to facilitate proper supervision and maintenance/repair within
the mining area. A center for centralized control and supervision
of the BWE and conveyor operations will be established.
3.21      French bilateral financing has been arranged for the construction
of a 2 x 65 MW mine mouth power plant (MMP) and a 150-kV transmission line to
Palembang, to be engineered and constructed by Sofrelec, a French consulting
firm. Though not part of the Project, this MMP will supply electricity for
the mine as well as be a user of coal, amounting to 400,000 tpy by FY1985,
when the MMP is expected to be completed. Until then, PLN is responsible for
interim power supply (IPS) to the mine during the initial period of operation
(para. 3.99).
3.22      About 2,950 people, consisting of 2,780 laborers, 35 junior staff
and administrative personnel and 35 senior staff, such as engineers and
management personnel, will be required to operate the mine by the end of
1986 (one year after mine start-up). PTBA currently-employs about 1,250
people in Bukit Asam; the balance of 1,700 new employees will be recruited,
primarily from South Sumatra. A survey made by MCS (para. 3.08) has indicated
that there is a large supply of candidates available to fill lower-level
skilled and semi-skilled jobs in the technical areas required for this Project.
Because PTBA is an independent entity it is anticipated that it will be able
to recruit graduate engineers and other entities have had no problems in
recruiting and relocating engineers to Sumatra provided satisfactory salaries,
housing and other fringe benefits are available. As part of the Project PTBA
will provide competitive salaries and other benefits and should therefore be
able to attract and retain required personnel.
3.23      Because of the substantial number of new recruits and the need to
introduce new skills as well as upgrade the skills of existing employees at
all levels, the Project includes a significant training component for PTBA.
The objectives of the program are two-fold: (i) to improve and strengthen
PTBA's management, mine operations, and maintenance activities and (ii) to
provide for efficient overall operations in the future. Although certain
training facilities and courses are available, no significant training has
been undertaken in recent years due to lack of funds and materials. Nation-
ally, graduates are few from the formal technical training available at
the Senior High School level where courses in mechanical and electrical
engineering are offered, and most of the graduates have received no practical
training at all due to lack of facilities. Informal training on the job,
although existing, cannot close the gap and meet the skill requirement of the
industry.



-- 16 -
3.24      A three-year training program, starting in 1982, will be undertaken
in PTBA by the Project Management Consultants. BAMCO (discussed in detail in
para. 3.841). This will prepare new and current personnel to supervise overall
mine operations and to operate and miaintain the bucket wheel system. It is
estimated that some 2,000 employees (1,500 new employees and 500 current
employees) will require some type of training in Indonesia. This local train-
ing program will focus on approximately 100 individual skill areas including
both managerial and technical requirements, and will be accomplished by means
of: (i) specialized training programs consisting of classroom instruction (in
a new training center to be constructed at the minesite), student workshop and
on-the-job training; (ii) maintenance and operator training by equipment sup-
pliers during erection and initial operation; and (iii) other training, inter
alia, mine safety and blasting technics) in existing Indonesian institutions.
3.25      In the implementation of this Program, BAMCO, under its contract,
will develop both classroom and on-the-job training materials, equipment
manuals, performance standards, course objectives, training schedules, and
evaluation criteria, with a view towards enabling Bukit Asam staff to be self-
sufficient in operating and maintaining the mine and in providing training to
all levels of future mineworkers. The precise content and number of classes
to be offered will be further defined once BAMCO has fully assessed the
significant strengths and weaknesses of the readily available pool of manpower
near Tanjung Enim. This work, which will be included in BAMCO's inception
report, is expected to be completed in January 1982, according to the BAMCO con-
tract, at which time it will be subaitted to the Bank for review and approval.
3.26      In addition to local training, under the program twelve carefully
selected senior mine personnel will be sent to Germany for intensive training
at the Rheinbraun Training Center and the Brown Coal Mining School to acquire
skills in mining engineering, mine planning, mechanical and electrical engineer-
ing, dewatering technics and surveying. The six-month program consists of
216 hours of classroom teaching and 672 hours of on-the-job training. The
curriculum has been reviewed by the Bank and found adequate. The trained
individuals will be expected to stay with PTBA for a minimum of 5 years after
training.
3.27      BAMCO is well qualified to undertake this training program, having
successfully done so in other mining projects elsewhere in developing coun-
tries (e.g., India, Turkey). The total cost of the training program is esti-
mated to be US$6.6 million (US$4.4 million local and US$2.2 million foreign,
including 184 man-months of expatriate staff at an average cost of US$11,700
per man-month). A new training center will be established, consisting of 5
classrooms, electrical and mechanical shops (in total about 1,750 square
meters) at a cost of US$972,000 (of which equipment costs are US$261,000).
3.28      Operational assistance during the initial years of mine operation
will be provided by BAMCO through a local counterpart staffing system contract,
covering, inter alia, mine planning, mine supervision and maintenance planning
and supervision. BAMCO is obligated to provide operational assistance under
the present contracts. A detailed proposal is to be submitted for Bank review
12 months before operational acceptance of the mine system and a contract
icceptable to the Bank should be eiEfective prior to the mine subsystem
acceptance (para. 3.85).



-17 -
2.   Muara Tiga Mine
3.29      In addition to the principal mine development described in paras.
3.14-3.28 above, the project consists of the development of the small Muara
Tiga deposit located immediately west of the proposed Bukit Asam mine. The
Muara Tiga mine will during the period 1982-1987 replace steam coal production
from the currently operated Air Laya mine (which will be closed down) as well
as make up for possible production shortfalls from the Bukit Asam mine during
the initial years of operation (para. 3.96). Annex 3-2 gives a description of
the deposit, the envisaged mining plan and transportation modes and estimates
of related operating and capital costs.
3.30      The mine development entails construction of a 3,000-meter long
main haulage road and a water diversion channel, including drainage ditches
to protect the proposed mining area from flooding during heavy rains. The
12 meterwide main haulage road will connect the mining area with the train
loading station in the current PTBA coal yard. A service shop and a small
site office will be built.
3.31      Mining will start in the North (A-B seam outcrops) area which
will be mined with a method similar to conventional strip mining. The central
area will be mined with standard open pit benching. Coal will be loaded by
track- and wheel-loaders into 20-ton off-highway articulated trucks and trans-
ported out of the mine to a stockyard for reloading into 7-ton trucks which
will haul the coal to the train loading station. As soon as the Bukit Asam
coal loading system is operational in 1984, Suralaya coal will be transported
to that system's distribution point and handled in the same way as the Bukit
Asam coal. Coal for other customers will continue to be handled through the
existing PTBA yard. Overburden material will be dumped in selected locations
which would not interfere with possible future mining on a larger scale.
3.   Mining Community
3.32      PTBA today owns about 1,300 houses in the community of Tanjung Enim.
About 300 of those are occupied by retired employees. Considering the rela-
tively poor condition of existing houses (1,200 out of 1,300 houses are
judged to be inhabitable by 1985), it is, at present, estimated that about
2,500 new houses, ranging in size from 40 to 100 square meters, and dormitories
for abour 300 people are required over an 8-year period. It is also envisaged
that roads, drainage and electrical distribution system including street lights
for the new residential areas will be constructed. A water supply system
including main lines, a water purification plant and pumping facilities, as
well as new sewerage facilities, will be built. Service facilities, including
a new hospital (200 beds), a new school (1,000 students), and new recreational
facilities (club house and cinema, sports field, tennis courts), will be
constructed. The existing swimming pool will be renovated. Additional space
will be reserved for religious facilities and small-scale commercial activities.
3.33      It is recognized, by PTBA as well as by the Bank, that the size and
proposed standards of the townsite expansion, as presently envisaged, might be
excessive. Also the impact of the Project on urban areas along the rail route
and at the terminal requires further analysis. As first priority, therefore,
PTBA in collaboration with the Indonesian authorities responsible for regional
and urban development and using appropriate consultants will:



- 18 -
(i)  estimate the potential growth of associated industrial and
commercial activity in the communities assocated with the
rail and terminals; and undertake an urban impact study to
deal with the potential problem of squatters in Tanjung Enim
and along the rail/terminal areas;
(ii)  propose appropriate institutional and administrative
arrangements for integrating the PTBA financed houses and
infrastructure in the existing towns;
(iii) clarify the responsibilities for payment of capital and
recurrent costs for the mining town and establish charges
for services rendered, and
(iv) in light of the results of these studies, review the scope
and design of the mining community.
Specifically, it was agreed during negotiations that PTBA will carry out or
commission a detailed urban impact situdy for Tanjung Enim to be carried out
before the mining community layout is finalized.  The implementation schedule
(Chart 3-3) on page 37 allows for an additional 6 months to complete this
preparatory work, which is considered adequate.
4.   Railway and Communications System
3.34      The railway component of the Project includes the following main
physical elements:
(a)  upgrading of track and bridges on the existing 405 km Tanjung
Enim-Muara Enim-Perabumulih-Panjang section to allow 18-ton
axle loads (para. 3.14);
(b)  construction of a new 800-m rail line from the existing railway line
near Tanjung Enim to the mine site train loading station and a new
6.5-km rail line from the existing line at Panjang to the terminal
site at Tarahan North;
(c)  provision of new sidings and extension of existing sidings at
stations needed for running 40-car coal trains;
(d)  upgrading of the signalling system;
(e)  provision of 15 new 1,500--hp diesel locomotives, 264 coal wagons and
two auxiliary cranes and rehabilitation of 135 existing coal wagons;
(f)  extension of motive power and rolling stock repair facilities; and
(g)  establishment of the telecommunication system needed to link
the mine, railway, terminals and shipping functions and
the internal system needed for the railway.
In addition to these, a railway traiLning program will be undertaken, as
described in para. 3.38.



- 19 
3.35      The upgrading of track includes:  (i) about 178 km of track renewal
with 54 kg/m rails and concrete sleepers; (ii) about 71 km of rail renewal
with 42.5 kg/m rails and replacement of defective sleepers; (iii) increasing
of the number of 3sleepers per km from 1,500 to 1,666; and (iv) ballast renewal
(about 500,000 m ).
3.36      The bridge rehabilitation program includes:  (i) replacement of 71
steel spans (2-20 m) with reinforced spans; (ii) rep'lacement of 8 steel spans
(25-60 m) with steel-concrete spans; (iii) reinforcement of 72 steel spans
(12-60 m); and (iv) repair of piers and abutments.
3.37      The railway extensions include earth works, bridges and other
structure and track. The upgrading of signalling includes completion of an
on-going program for installation of a mechanical signalling system, including
interlocking on the entire Tanjung Enim-Panjang section.
3.38      The new locomotives will be ballasted to 18-ton axle loads and
equipped with dynamic braking and multiple unit control. The coal wagons for
transport of Suralaya coal will be of solid-bottom type, equipped with a
rotary coupler at one end for rotary dumping at the terminal and carry a
net load of 52 tons.
3.39      The additional railroad equipment required to handle the 2.5 million
tpy of coal for Suralaya will not warrant construction of new servicing and
maintenance facilities. Repair facilities will be established in the existing
workshop at Lahat and the inspection and running maintenance will be per-
formed in the existing shed in Tanjung Karang. The workshop at Lahat, which
presently is equipped to service and overhaul steam locomotives and to over-
haul all types of wagons, will be remodelled to do all heavy repairs and
overhaul works on motive power and rolling stock. The Tanjung Karang shed,
which despite inadequate facilities is presently overhauling and servicing
diesel locomotives and servicing passenger and freight cars, will be remodelled
to carry out proper servicing of motive power and rolling stock.
3.40      The proposed telecommunication system consists of:   (i) a UHF
terrestial point-to-point radio relay system running from Lahat to Kertapati
and from Perabumulih to Tanjung Karang, principally adjacent to the PJKA rail
line. From Tanjung Karang it is extended to Radja Basa on the southern
tip of Sumatra and to Suralaya on Java; (ii) a telephone system consisting of a
fully integrated network of electronic private automatic branch exchanges
(EPABX) at ten places with access to the Perumtel network at six places;
(iii) a trackside communication network for PJKA consisting of a dispatcher to
station system, a point-to-train radio system and a station-to-station system;
(iv) a message-switching network, including external telex connections, to
provide communications between PJKA central office in Kertapati and sixteen
PJKA points plus the Tarahan and Suralaya terminals; and (v) VHF radio systems
for internal radio communications for the mine, railway terminals and ship-to-
shore. Operation of the system will be the responsibility of PJKA and PTBA.
3.41      The railway training program that will be undertaken by Canadian
Pacific Consulting Services (CPCS), which will provide managerial and technical
services to PJKA throughout the project implementation period (para. 3.91),
will be related to the movement of coal and the skills and personnel required
to perform this, however, other traffic will to some extent benefit from the
improved skills. The training plans are based on the following basic principles:



- 20 -
(a) to make extensive use of existing local educational institutions;
(b) to make use of existing PJKA training facilities, and, when these
are inadequate, to plan new facilities which can be used for
future system wide training;
(c) where practical, to adapt existing PJKA training courses to
meet the needs of the Bukit Asam Project; and
(d to extensively utilize PJKA personnel as instructors.
3.42      The scope of the training program is summarized in the following
table:
ESS--Proposed Railway Training Program
Track, Bridges                              Telecom-
Buildings      Operations  Mechanical  munications  Total
Total number of trainees             180             531        1028           126        1865
Number of courses                     24              42         109            39         214
Group size                         10-20           10-35        6-30         15-30        6-35
Av. length of course (weeks)         2.5               2          25            13          16
Number of participants               377            1107        1355           629        3468
Man-months of instructors:
Expatriates                        123              21         117           209         470
Local                              118              66         192           300         666
Estimated Costs: (US$000):
Equipment                             63              40       1,159         1,444       2,706
Instructors
Expatriates                        882             161         874         1,527       3,444
Local                              314             116         315         1,290       2,035
Trainees                             111             322       2,594           903       3,930
Miscellaneous costs                   32              44           8             -          84
Total                            1,402             683       4,950         5,164      12,199
Average man-months cost
for expatriate instructors    7,170              7,670       7,470         7,310      7,330
3.43      As part of its project management contract, CPCS will provide sub-
stantial operational assistance in track and bridge maintenance, train opera-
tion and telecommunication maintenance. During operation, the Bank, the
Government and PJKA will periodically review the level and efficiency of coal
transport. Agreement was reached that if this transport is not being carried
out in a timely and efficient manner, PJKA will promptly take action to correct
the situation which may include a contract for operational assistance.
5.   Tarahan Terminal
3.44      After a consideration of five sites in the area, Tarahan North, about
6.5 km south of the existing railhead at Panjang on Lampung Bay in Southern
Sumatra, has been selected as the terminal site. Selection of the Project
site was based on considerations of accessibility, water depth, wave regime



- 21 -
and wind direction. The present site is on a natural beach, underlain with
coral, lying between an existing road and the water. With a realignment of
the road, already underway, sufficient land and beach area can be reserved for
the terminal without affecting the village of Sorampok which is on the land
side of that part of the road not subject to realignment. Steep cliffs behind
the village constrain the area, determine the route to be followed by the road,
and provide a flat plain on which the future extension of the railway from
Panjang must be located. The site is bounded on the north by land owned by a
wood processing plant.
3.45      While the terminal has been designed for an initial volume of 2.5 mil-
lion tpy, the railway facilities, in the form of loop track, are sufficient to
provide space to handle future volumes of up to 12.0 million tpy. The initial
works will, however, be sufficient only for the initial volume. Adequate soil
tests have been undertaken on land and at the pier site to ensure that the
site is acceptable. Areas of sand adequate for the preparation of the site
have been located nearby, and hydrographic studies have not revealed any
navigational problems. Topographical studies have also been completed.
3.46      The terminal's design consists of a railway car dumper with an un-
loading capacity of 3,000 tph. Coal reception and take-away conveyor facilities,
with a capacity of 3,200 tph, will crush the coal; and conveyor belts and
a fixed stacker will stockpile the crushed coal above two reclaim hoppers
located at ground level. The stockpile will have 15,000 tons of active
storage and 45,000 tons of compacted storage. These amounts are derived from
a system-wide stockpile optimization study. Provision is made at the primary
crusher to direct future larger volumes of coal (e.g., for later stages of the
Suralaya or Tuban power developments) to much larger stockpiling facilities,
to be served by mobile stackers or combined stacker/reclaimers. When this
expansion takes place, the facilities proposed for the 2.5 tpy volume will
become the emergency stacking and reclaiming system.
3.47      Coal will be reclaimed from the stockpile for ship loading by
a combination of gravity flow through the reclaim hoppers and flow created
by three large bulldozers pushing coal to the reclaim hoppers. This system
is expected to provide, over the average distance the bulldozers will operate,
a coal flow at a peak rate of about 2,000 tph, sufficient to load ships at an
average of 1,150 tph. This method of coal reclaim is used for ship loading in
a number of coal terminals in other parts of the world, one of which has been
inspected by Bank staff, and is expected to be satisfactory.
3.48      Reclaimed coal will be sent by conveyor belts to secondary coal
crushing facilities consisting of, initially, three units each of 1,100 tph
capacity (two operational, one stand-by). After secondary crushing, the coal
will be sent to the travelling ship loader, which is designed to load the
Project ship at an average rate of 1,150 tph. Provision is made for the
shiploader to load at a future average rate of 2,000 tph, so that only minor
alterations will need to be made when the volume rises above 2.5 million tpy.
The coal loading pier, aligned to the underwater contours so as to permit
approach of a loaded Project ship from either direction, will stand in 12 m of
water. While the Project ship will require only 7 m of water, the possibility
can arise that, in the event of damage to the ship, emergency ships would have
to be used. After a survey was made of the world fleet of ships carrying
their own coal unloading gear, it was decided that provision should be made



- 22 -
for the 12 m depth sufficient to accommodate up to a 40,000 dwt ship that
would be loaded fully with 30,000 tons of coal.
3.49      A decision has been taken to construct the Tarahan terminal on a
turn-key basis as this is viewed as the most efficient method for construction.
In the instructions to bidders for the Tarahan turn-key contract, as prepared
by MCS and approved by the Bank, bidders are required to submit proposals for
recruitment procedures and for training programs during the start-up period of
the Project. As the terminal is to be completely new operation and almost all
of its personnel will have to be recruited, a comprehensive training program
for all levels of personnel is crucial. It is envisaged that 4 training
programs will be conducted: (i) a plant-wide operations orientation, and
specific working-level courses on terminal (ii) administration, (iii) operation
and (iv) maintenance. In addition, basic skills courses will be offered. The
proposed training program will be reviewed by the Bank once the turn-key bidder
is selected (early 1982).
3.50      The successful bidder will be contractually obligated to propose
an operational assistance program--for varying levels of personnel--for the
first five years of terminal operations. A detailed scope of work for this
proposal was prepared by MCS and approved by the Bank, and the proposal is
expected to be submitted to the Bank for review in early 1982. A preliminary
cost estimate for the terminal training program is US$2 million (50:50
local and foreign). Operational assistance costs are estimated at US$1.6
million (totally foreign). This is reasonable considering the scope of work
envisaged.
6.   The Ship
3.51      The ship selected as the Project ship is a self-unloading bulk
carrier of about 9,200 dwt. The selection was made after careful consideration
of: (i) the rate of consumption of coal by the power plant and the appropriate
stockpile volumes to be held at the mine, the loading terminal and at Suralaya;
(ii) the ship loading and unloading rates and the cost of the associated
materials-handling equipment; and (iii) the unloading facilities required.
Selection of a type of ship similar to those used on the US East Coast, the
Great Lakes, and the Caribbean for the coal and bulk products trades and
involving short runs, high-speed unloading, and low-cost shore facilities
will further extend Indonesian shipping operations into self-unloading ship
operations, already well and successfully developed for fertilizer distribution.
3.52      Due to the very short run of about 60 nautical miles between Tarahan
and Suralaya, the unloading speed, and the operational regime proposed, the
ship has substantial over-capacity in the early start-up stages of the Project
but will be fully utilized at 2.5 million tpy. It is expected that subsequent
expansion of the Suralaya plant, requiring an additional 3.0 million tpy of
coal, will be carried out within four years of Project completion. At such
time as it is decided to proceed with this expansion, a decision will have to
be made whether to duplicate the shipping system or to increase the size of
the next ship to about 22,000 dwt cargo capacity.
3.53      During the period prior to authorization of construction of Suralaya
Unit III, there will only be one ship to supply the coal. However both Units
I and II are dual-fired coal-oil and the power station is equipped with fuel



- 23 -
tanks and an oil receiving pier, Thus, the first response to an interruption
in coal suplies will be to draw-down coal inventories, which are to be main-
tained at 30 days  supply, followed by use of oil  A major interruption of
coal supply--whether due to the unavailability of the ship or because of
problems at the mine or on the railway--could be dealt with by unloading coal
using any of a large number of bulk carriers of the world fleet which are
between 20,000 dwt and 40,000 dwt, built prior to 1962, and equipped with
unloading cranes. 1/  The choice of using such ships or of firing with oil
in an emergency would be made in the light of the relative delivered and
unloaded costs of oil and coal at the time. No technical need exists for
an emergency coal reception pier in the early years of the Project because
oil-firing is possible, although at a much higher cost than that estimated for
imported coal.
3.54      By the time Unit III begins generating, a second coal ship will be in
service.  However, as Unit III and the subsequent units will be only coal-fired,
the possibility of an interruption of supplies on account of accidents or
disasters at the mine or on the railway cannot be ignored.  In order to deal
with this possibility, PLN has decided to build a coal reception pier at
Suralaya. This will be available throughout the entire Project period and
could, therefore, be utilized in the early years if such a course were con-
sidered desirable. 2/
3.55      The consultant contract for assisting in implementation of the
shipping component (discussed in detail in para. 3.91) will include a training
component. Training supervision costs will involve 35-man-months of consultant
time at an average-cost of US$9,300 per man-month to accomplish 89 man-months
of training of Indonesian shipping staff of PANN and Bahtera. The ship design
contract will be financed in part from Bank Loan 1250-IND (para. 2.23) so it
can start expeditiously. The balance will be financed from the proposed loan.
7.   Kertapati Terminal
3.56      It is proposed to retain the coal terminal at Kertapati, on the
Musi River upstream of Palembang, for shipment of steam coal destined for tin
processing facilities and any anthracite exports. Rehabilitation of the
Kertapati terminal, under the Project, will ensure that local steam coal and
anthracite sales will be separated from the Suralaya coal. The rehabilitation
of the terminal will include:
(a) repairs to berth structure and installation of a fendering system;
1/   A study was carried out, based on data obtained from Lloyds' Register
of Shipping, Data Center, which showed 601 vessels meeting criteria
suitable for substitute or emergency ships.
2/   In the later years of the Project, when coal intake will be above 5.5
million tons per year, special arrangements will have to be made for
imported coal reception. A variety of alternative coal import procedures,
including unloading bulk carriers into the self-unloading ships could be
considered.



- 24 -
(b) new equipment for train uniloading, reclaiming from stockpiles and
barge-loading will be procured and installed;
(c) all belt conveyors will be replaced and a new weigh scale will
be installed;
(d) workshops, pumphouses and office buildings will be repaired;
(v) electrical installations will be refurbished; and
(vi) new workshop machinery such as a drill press, overhead
crane, welding equipment, hydraulic jacks and miscellaneous
hand tools will be procur(ed and installed.
The estimated total rehabilitation cost is US$4.1 million in March 1981 prices.
8.   Environmental Considerations
3.57      Mine.  Adequate monitoring of the ambient environment will be
undertaken during construction (BAMCO), as well as operations (PTBA), to ensure
that damage to aquatic resources is minimized. Findings of significantly
above-ambient contaminant levels wiLl lead to modifications of construction/
operations to eliminate or lessen any potential danger. Ditches to divert
uncontaminated surface waters around disturbed areas will be provided. Con-
taminated surface waters will be diverted into sedimentation ponds for necessary
treatment. Run-off water quality will be monitored frequently to ensure that
the water meets World Bank guidelines for pollutant levels.
3.58      Most land within the mine area is dissected peneplain of low agri-
cultural capability, presently covered by rough pasture and scrubland.
Of the total land area of 3,743 ha. estimated to be disturbed by the mining
system over a 30-year period, approximately 37% will be returned to produc-
tive agriculture. Due to the large volume of waste material returned to the
open pit during the later stages of mine life, waste disposal areas will
be minimized and, once mining is complete, utilization of the open pit for
both agriculture and aquaculture will be possible. Mine reclamation, due to the
character of most wastes, is limited to dryland agriculture in flat to gently
sloping areas and the establishment of grasses on dump slopes and pit benches
for erosion control and stabilization. An allowance has been included in the
Project operating costs for this purpose, amounting to (in 1981 US$) USlO/ton
of coal from first coal production through FY1995 and US254/ton of coal there-
after. This is considered adequate to provide for and finance the necessary
environmental precautions.
3.59      During negotiations, agreement was reached that PTBA shall:  (a)
prepare guidelines before the completion of the Project, satisfactory to the
Bank, on water pollution controls and levels in the mine site and port areas;
(b) monitor such pollution and take all necessary steps to ensure that the
requirements of the guidelines are followed; and (c) before the completion
of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank for review a land reclamation
plan for the Bukit Asam mining area, and carry out the land reclamation activi-
ties in accordance with such plan.



25 -
3.60      Transport and Terminals.  The potential environmental effects of the
transport of coal by rai iand sea are judged to ba insignificant. At the
Tarahan Terminal, adequate dust suppression measures are included in the
terminal design, and proper mitigating measures will be undertaken to minimize
the potential danger to water quality and marine life as a result of construc-
tion work. Rehabilitation of the existing Kertapati Terminal facilities will
not only have no adverse impact on the environment, but improve the present
uncontrolled situation. It was agreed during negotiations that PTBA will carry
out or cause to be carried out an environmental impact study of the terminals.
9.   Coal Exploration Program
3.61      The Coal Exploration Program discussed with the Government, PTBA,
PNTB and relevant institutions will consist of coal exploration in the most
potentially-favorable areas relinquished by Shell in 1978/79 in South Sumatra.
A number of areas for additional exploration in Kalimantan are also being
considered. As far as South Sumatra is concerned, full feasibility studies
will be prepared in relation to the coal reserves at North West Banko and at
Maura Tiga which are considered the coal areas most likely to have immediate
potential. Additional drilling will be undertaken in surrounding Shell-
relinquished areas including Air Lawai, Arahan, Suban Jeriji and Central/
South/South East Banko. As far as the feasibility studies at N.W. Banko and
Maura Tiga are concerned, considerable exploration has previously been under-
taken and the Project will complete drilling necessary to (i) classify coal
reserves into the proven category and (ii) improve uncertainties about coal
quality considerably. The prefeasibility studies will involve a less inten-
sive drilling and coal testing campaign aimed at establishing the location of
additional high-potential coal areas.
3.62      Coal Exploration Program activities will include:
(i) provision of 5 (five) drill rigs to undertake exploration;
(ii)  provision of additional coal and geotechnical laboratory
testing equipment:
(iii) a drilling program involving approximately 250 boreholes
in South Sumatra with a total metreage of approximately
25,000 m and preliminary field surveys and explanation in
Kalimantan;
(iv)  provision of technical assistance (consultants) to review
previous exploration results; plan, supervise and analyze project
exploration; prepare feasibility/prefeasibility studies; and
supervise drilling campaigns undertaken by MCTD.
3.63      The Exploration Program is estimated to cost US$45.0 million in total,
of which US$27.0 constitutes the foreign currency component. The Program,
appraised in October/November 1981, will be executed by a Project Team under
the coordination of the Directorate of Mines in the Ministry of Mines and
Energy. Under the Project, an initial US$5.0 million will be made available as
part of the Bank loan, to finance down payments for equipment and technical
assistance in order to initiate immediately the urgent Program. During negotia-
tions, the Government agreed to employ consultants, satisfactory to the Bank,
to assist it in carrying out the Exploration Program.



- 26 -
D.   Project Execution and Implementation
3.64      The Government decided with Bank staff agreement (para. 3.09) to
entrust Project execution and operation to the operating entities, PTBA, PJKA
and PANN, with project management, training and operational assistance provided
by specialized consultants at the various levels. Chart 3-1 provides an
overview of the Project implementation organization. Annex 3-1 describes the
executing entities, respectively, in some detail, including their organizational
structures, present facilities, and past financial performance.
1.   Executing Entities
3.65      PT Bukit Asam--Mine, Townsite and Terminals.  Through 1980, all
coal mining activities in Indonesia were managed by a state coal enterprise,
PNTB, under the supervision of the Director General of Mines of the Ministry
of Mines and Energy. PNTB was created in 1968 through a merger of three
autonomous mining companies formerly operated by Dutch interests. Two mines
are in operation at present, the Ombilin mine in West Sumatra and the Bukit
Asam mine, whose expansion is the object of the Project. In addition to
managing the two mines, PNTB initiated and supervised, from its head office in
Jakarta, the feasibility work to expand both mines, a production-sharing
agreement with Shell Minjbouw (para. 2.12), and negotiations for production-
sharing contracts in Kalimantan with five foreign consortia.
3.66      The existing open pit mine at Bukit Asam presently employs some 1,250
workers. Its steam coal production has been declining from 864,000 tons in 1941,
the maximum ever achieved, to 107,600 tons in 1980. In addition to steam coal,
anthracitic coal is produced from the Suban pit located within the Bukit Asam
concession. The table shows 1976-80 coal production from the Bukit Asam mine:
Bukit Asam Coal Production, 1976-80
(000 tons)
Year                Steam Coal           Anthracite          Total
1976                  104.4                 18.3             122.7
1977                  117.1                 32.5             149.6
1978                  126.5                 50.6             177.1
1979                  122.6                 63.7            186.3
1980                  107.6                 53.6             161.2
The PNTB operation has been characterized by low productivity, old equipment
and poor maintenance of its physical assets. When production declined,
PNTB was prevented, for social reasons, from adjusting the number of employees
to an adequate level and had to retain all employees. Thus, the company is
heavily overstaffed. As a result, PNTB has had high production costs necessi-
tating heavy subsidization by the Indonesian Government.
3.67      As the Government plans to accelerate coal development in Ombilin
and Kalimantan and PNTB has limited management staff, the Government decided
upon the Bank's recommendation to set up a separate enterprise to manage the
Bukit Asam concession and associated facilities. Consequently, Perusahaan
Tersero Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam, PTBA, was created by Presidential Decree
on December 15, 1980. PTBA is a share company, presently wholly owned by the



-  27  -                                       Chart 3-1
INDONESIA
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
Overall Project Implementation Organization Chart
Mnistry                                                miistry                                  Mnistry of
of                     BAPPENAS                      of Minecs}           Bank of              Transp ort
Fin.nce                                               &, Energy             nndonesi            Comm,,,.a
r           -       -STEERING COMMITTEE - --------
I                                                                       IH3                                     Il
I          Monitoring Group        POKKORLI                   
ir- -  -----  ---I 
l~ I
Adlinor       _         PTBAPJKA                                                                                                     PT PANN
|    Otrector  l             l    Di~~~~~~rector 
|  Minsrg  |            .     | ~~~~Coal Transpor 
Project Manager      Projec' Manager        Kertapa          Project Manager                     Projeager                                Manager          Owner's E og.
PMC                 'PMC                                   T                         Block A               Block 8
BAMCO             PT ENCONA                                 Contractor                                       PJKA
I    Suppliers    g l    Suppliers  | |  Suppliers and   |                        f    Suppliers    l l    Sappliers    l   [ i
|  & Contractors  g |  & Contractors  | |   Contractorst |                          |  & Contractors  | |  & Contractors |t o       Ship Builderrs
LEGEND:
Line Responsibility
_  _       _ Progress, Cost and Schedule Information Flow
_  _  _* Flow of Project Directives
Member of Steering Committee
PMC   Project Management Consultant
Industrial Projects Department/East Asia and Pacific
Projects Department                                                                                                                                      World Bank - 22674
D.ceabesr 19gl



- 28 -
Government. Under the Project, PTBA will own, implement and operate the
existing and expanded Bukit Asam mine and supporting facilities, as well as the
Kertapati and Tarahan terminals. PTBA will participate in the exploration
effort in South Sumatra under the proposed Coal Exploration Project.
3.68      PTBA's offices, while initially in Jakarta, will be located at Tanjung
Enim close to the mine within a year of the start of Project implementation
(mid-1982). To facilitate execution of PTBA Project subsystem components
(mine, mine community, Kertapati term:Lnal, Tarahan terminal), a project manage-
ment unit is being set up within the Company; each subsystem will have a
subsystem project manager responsible to the Director of Mining (mine and
township) and the Director of Transport (terminals) reporting to the President
Director. These organizational relationships, as well as the relationship of
the PTBA to POKKORLAK, the overall coordinating agency, are summarized in Chart
3-1. Past performance and present mine facilities are discussed in Annex 3-1.
3.69      The Government has appointed an experienced engineer as President
Director of PTBA. All other Directors (Transport, Mining, Finance and Adminis-
tration) have been associated with the Project since its inception and should
be in a position to manage the Project successfully with the technical assis-
tance contemplated and discussed in paras. 3.85-3.86.
3.70      As one of the steps in forming PTBA, the Government has asked
consultants (PT Pamintori, in association with Coopers and Lybrand Services)
to review the accounting systems used by PNTB and, where necessary, to develop
new or revised systems for the new Company. While the consultants have iudged
the existing PNTB financial accounting system capable of being revised to meet
the requirements of the expanded Bukit Asam operation, they recommended develop-
ment of a new management accounting system for use in controlling cost and
performance PTBA. As part of the PMC contract, BAMCO will design the management
accounting system, emphasizing cost control.  PT Pamintori will be employed
under a contract acceptable to the Bank to define the financial accounting
system and assist PTBA to install and implement both the financial and manage-
ment accounting systems. During negotiations agreement was reached that PTBA
shall: (i) adopt and put in place a financial and management accounting system
satisfactory to the Bank, to be fully in operation by April 1, 1984; (ii) have
its accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish to the Bank as soon as
possible, and not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
certified copies of its financial statements and the auditors' report. The
audit will be undertaken by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
3.71      The Indonesian State Railway.  Implementation of the railway and
telecommunications component of the Project will be executed by the Eksplotasi
Sumatera Selaban ESS), the South Sumatra Region of the Indonesian State
Railway, Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api (PJKA). This agency is described in
more detail in paras. 17-30 of Annex 3-1. PJKA is a Government agency
under the Ministry of Communications. Responsibility for the day-to-day
management of PJKA rests with the Chief Director, who reports to the Minister
through the Director General of Land Transport. At the PJKA headquarters in
Bandung, West Java, the Chief Director, supported by five functional department
directors (personnel, finance, traffic and commerce, fixed installation,
mechanical engineering and signalling and telecommunications), supervises six



- 29 -
Regions (eksplotasi)--three in Java and three in Sumatra, including ESS.
Decision making is largely concentrated at PJKA headquarters, and the Regional
Directors, who rank below the department directors in Bandung, have relatively
limited authority.
3.72      As shown in Annex 3-1, PJKA-s overall management function suffers
from a shortage of experienced staff in the middle and lower ranges, parti-
cularly in the Regions. Training facilities and training are in principle
adequate for existing operations, and programs to improve training are on-
going. A comprehensive training program is required for new and upgraded
skills needed to carry out the Project. With an "active" staff of about
3,500 1/ ESS operational efficiency is low, although some improvements have
occurred since 1976 (for details see Annex 3-1).
3.73      Despite an 86% increase in passenger traffic (passenger-km) during
the 1976-79 period, ESS's financial performance was consistently weak with
only limited operating cash surpluses in FY1976 and FY1979 and substantial
operating deficits. ESS-s disappointing financial experience in these years
can be largely explained by the Government's failure to increase tariffs
sufficiently to offset increases in operating expenses. During the 1976-79
period, freight and passenger tariffs increased an average of only 30%, while
working expenses increased about 70% due primarily to inflation.
3.74      Presently, PJKA's accounting system is centralized with the result
that separate cash flow and balance sheet data for ESS and the other eksplo-
tasis are not available. In response to this deficiency, consultants, (S.
Parman & Co.--Indonesia, associated with Coopers & Lybrand) devised a completely
new accounting system which has been approved by the Government and PJKA. The
new accounting system provides for separate accounts and financial statements
in each of the eksplotasis. To facilitate the introduction of the accounting
system to ESS, modifications to the system were recently developed to permit
the separation of coal and non-coal costing data. The consultants are proceed-
ing with the implementation of the accounting system for ESS. The Project
includes financing for the final stage of implementation, to be carried out by
consultants in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
During negotiations, the Government and PJKA agreed to introduce and operate
the aforementioned accounting system in ESS not later than the start of FY1983
so as to allow identification and control of coal and non-coal cost data for
appropriate tariff calculation.
3.75      Annual audits are performed by the Government's Office of Audits.
Due to staff limitations on the part of the Government auditors, and the state
of PJKA's accounting records, the audits have been seriously delayed. However,
under the Project, this difficulty is being addressed through the implementation
of the new accounting system (para. 3.74) which will result in timely annual
accounts for ESS. In addition, the Government Auditors will give special
priority to ESS's annual audits. Accordingly, PJKA has agreed that commencing
in FY83 ESS's annual accounts will be audited by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank and the audit reports will be submitted to the Bank no
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
1/   Besides the "active" staff, ESS has about 600 "non-active" employees on
its payroll who have been discharged but are being paid about 80% of
full pay.



- 30 -
3.76      The Shipowner-PT Pengembangan Armada Niaga Nasional (PT PANN).
PT PANN is the national fleet development corporation and will be the executing
agency for the marine aspect of the Project. It is owned by the Government
and by its long-term credit bank, BAPINDO. Organized in May 1974 to acquire
and lease or sell ships on time payment, PT PANN now owns 41 ships (81,158 tons
total capacity) at an acquisition cost: of Rp 31,000 million (US$49.6 million).
PANN has received funds from Norwegian aid and from the Bank under the Second
Shipping Project (para. 2.23) which is now almost entirely committed and over
69% disbursed.
3.77      PANN's operations are governed by a "Policy Statement" which can
only be altered with the Bank's agreement. Each sub-loan is appraised by PANN
and this appraisal must be agreed to lby the Bank prior to release of funds.
PANN is well managed and profitable. The State Auditor's audit for 1979 and
draft audit for 1980 have been received and reveal a satisfactory position.
Past Financial Statements for PT Pann are given in Annex 3-4.
3.78      To deal with a situation in which neither PLN nor PTBA have any
experience with bulk coal shipping, it has been agreed that PANN acquire the
coal ship required under the Project and lease it to a qualified operator on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; PANN has already appraised the
proposed operator, P. T. Pelayaran Bahtera Adhiguna, which the Bank has
confirmed would be acceptable. Acting according to the procedures found to
work well for the Second Shipping Project, PANN will, after the appraisal has
been accepted by the Bank and the ship has been constructed, lease it to the
operator. This lease will contain clauses, related to the main coal sale
contract, enabling PANN to transfer the lease to a substitute operator if the
selected operator does not perform according to its time-charter with PTBA.
Thus the operational obligations, corntained in the time-charter, will be
separated from the ownership by PANN. Adequate training of Bahtera staff, to
be carried out with the assistance of PANN's consultants (MCD), is included
in the conditions of the lease (para. 3.91). During negotiations the Bank
noted that a lease structure that ensured a yield of about 10% in real terms
over the life of the lease would be acceptable.
3.79      The Ship Operator-PT Pelayaran Bahtera Adhiguna (Bahtera).  Bahtera
was formed in 1971 as a Government shipping corporation to undertake ocean-
going general-cargo and bulk trades and to undertake domestic tug and barge
operations. The company now owns and operates eight ships, of which six,
ranging in size from 2,400 dwt to 8,000 dwt, carry logs and general cargo on
the Japan and Taiwan routes, and two, each of 1,665 dwt, operate on inter-
island trades. Eight tugs and 10 barges are leased, but this business is
declining. The proposed coal ship will increase the operational fleet by
9,200 dwt to a total of 48,200 dwt.
3.80      Bahtera has 244 sea-going and 416 shore staff.  The latter carry out
cargo and general ship agency and forwarding functions. The sea-going staff
are adequately trained and operate ships on international and domestic voyages.
The technical and accounting departments are also acceptable but improvements
are required in management information procedures. To deal with this and to
improve Bahtera's shipping operations, PANN has included in its proposed lease
of the Project ship an agreement whereby Bahtera will retain consultants to
audit its 1978, 1979 and 1980 accounts and upgrade its financial and management
practices, receive training in self-unloading ship operations aboard ships
similar to the Project ship and upgrading in navigation, radar use, engineering
and maintenance.  Much of this training will benefit all of Bahtera's operations.



- 31 -
2.   Overall Project Coordination
3.81      As illustrated in Chart 3-1 on page 27, the highest policy-making
level, a Government Steering Committee formed at the start of Phase I of the
Project (preparation), will continue its role of: (i) ensuring inter-system
policy coordination for the Project; (ii) coordinating the overall schedule
and policy with PLN; and (iii) resolving critical Project issues which cannot
be resolved at a lower level. The Steering Committee consists of the Director-
General or senior officials of the Ministries of Mines and Energy; Transporta-
tion, Communication and Tourism; and Finance; the national planning agency,
BAPPENAS; Bank Indonesia; and PLN. Given the nature of its membership, the
Steering Committee is not expected to be involved with operational Project
matters, but to provide the overall guidance and mandates necessary for the
respective entities to carry out their portion of the Project.
3.82      A Government coordinating group, POKKORLAK, has been established to
(i) coordinate and monitor overall Project costs, budgets, schedules and
plans; (ii) resolve matters arising from interphasing of the different sub-
systems; and (iii) resolve common day-to-day operating problems, essentially
taking over the Project coordination role of KP5BA. POKKORLAK consists of the
President Directors of PTBA, PJKA and PANN, a Permanent Secretary and 7
Indonesian professionals as well as support staff on a full-time basis. The
Chairman of KP5BA in implementation of Phase I has been appointed Permanent
Secretary of POKKORLAK. The Permanent Secretary and his staff are to be
supported by a project monitoring consultant. The Bank has approved terms of
reference for this consultant who is to analyze and coordinate overall cost
control, scheduling and deviation problems. MCS has been selected with Bank
agreement to provide these services and the contract was signed
in October 1981. The President Directors of the respective entities will be
supported in the monthly POKKORLAK meetings, as required, by their respective
subsystem managers. Chairmanship of POKKORLAK will rotate among the three
directors on a six-month basis. During negotiations the Government confirmed
that sufficient funds will be made available to POKKORLAK, in accordance
with its budgetary procedures, in a timely manner, and that POKKORLAK shall
be ensured the necessary facilities, services and staff to carry out its
objective and specific functions.
3.   Project Management and Operational Assistance for Project Components
3.83      Mine System.  Detailed mine design, detailed engineering of support
facilities, procurement, supervision of construction, erection and commission-
ing of all mining operations will be the responsibility of a project management
consultant (PMC) who will also undertake training of the mine management and
workers. BAMCO--Bukit Asam Mining constructors, a joint venture of Rheinbraun
Consulting (RC) of Germany and Morrison-Knudsen, International Company, Inc.
(MKI) of the U.S.--has been selected as PMC for the mine on terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank. BAMCO's services will be terminated upon commission-
ing of the last bucket wheel system. The average man-month rate for BAMCO,
including fees, subsistence expenses, etc., is US$9,100 per man-month. Con-
sidering the long experience of Rheinbraun in bucket wheel mine design,
training and operation and Morrison-Knudsen-s experience as an international
contractor in Indonesia, BAMCO is well qualified to provide the management,
training and operational assistance services for the mine. BAMCO-s selection
is acceptable to the Bank; the BAMCO contract was signed on August 12, 1981
and became effective in November 1981.



- 32 -
3.84      Under the negotiated BAMCO contract, BAMCO or Rheinbraun Consulting
(RC) is to provide operational assistance for a 5-year period. BAMCO will
submit the detailed plan for trainirng and operation assistance 3 months after
effectiveness of their contract, i.e., about February 1982. BAMCO or RC is
committed to conclude an operational assistance contract not later than 6
months prior to the final acceptance of the BWE-system. During negotiations
it was agreed that PTBA shall, at least 12 months before the operational
acceptance of the first mining subsystem, furnish to the Bank for its review
and approval a draft contract to provide operational assistance during the
initial years of mine operation, and ensure that such contract is effective
prior to the operational acceptance of the mine system. In view of the signifi-
cant period before Project completion and the substantial training included in
the Project, it was also agreed that a final decision on the length of the
initial period of operational assistance to be incorporated in the contract
would be made at the time the draft contract is reviewed by the Bank.
3.85      To supervise its consultants, and organize adequately internal
decision making for the project PTBA has created a Project Management Unit,
headed by an experienced Project Director. As detailed in Chart 3-1, three
Project Managers - Project Manager-Mine, Project Manager-Townsite and Project
Manager-Terminals report to him. The project managers of each component have
received adequate internal staffing and will have the assistance of a few
specialized expatriate advisors called Technical Advisors.
3.86      The terms of reference for the Technical Advisors have been agreed
with the Bank; and PTBA has concluded a contract with Bechtel Indonesia
Incorporated, a subsidiary of BechteL (US) (para. 3.07). A senior technical
advisor, with experience in the implementation of large-scale industrial
projects will be allocated full-time to the PTBA office to advise the PTBA
management on overall project matters. In addition, the contract provides for
Technical Services Advisors, available on a when-required basis, to advise PTBA
on matters including but not limited to bucket-wheel excavator design, procure-
ment, mine development (Muara Tiga), construction, operation and training. The
average man-month rate including fees, subsistance, expenses, allowances,
travel, etc., is estimated not to exceed US$12,000. The contracts will extend
the services through mine commissioning in 1985 reflecting the varying needs of
individual specialities during this period.
3.87      During the construction period temporary camp facilities to house
foreign and local construction workers will be essential. During negotiations
the Bank emphasized the urgent need for PTBA to finalize arrangements for
proper facilities. Local consultants and the senior engineering advisors
are reviewing the matter, and it was agreed that PTBA shall furnish to the
Bank, by April 1, 1982, an action plan satisfactory to the Bank for the
provision of housing and infrastructure for all personnel involved in the
implementation of the mine component.
3.88      Townsite and Social Infrastructure.  The townsite development will
be implemented by PTBA using local contractors, with a local engineering firm,
PT Encona, acting as PMC for the townsite. In Phase I of the Project, PT
Encona acted as a sub-contractor to MCS for the conceptual engineering and
design of the envisaged townsite and social infrastructure (para. 3.30). The
construction of the townsite and related facilities is not on the Project



- 33 -
schedules critical path. Nevertheless, the contract with PT ENCONA, accept-
able to the Bank, should be effective not later than May 1982. PT ENCONA's
scope of work will reflect the results of the urban impact study outlined in
para. 3.30.
3.89      Terminals.  Both construction of the new Tarahan Terminal and the
upgrading of the Kertapati Terminal will be implemented under the respon-
sibility of PTBA. The former manager of the existing Bukit Asam mine has been
appointed Director of Coal Transport and will be responsible for rehabilitation
of the Kertapati Terminal and the implementation of the Tarahan Terminal; in
the latter case, he will be supervising the terminal Project Manager. The
Tarahan Terminal will be constructed under a turn-key contract by one of four
Canadian firms that have been prequalified. MCS has been selected, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to supervise the contract and to act
as Owner's Engineer to PTBA. MCS is well qualified for this in view of the
past experience of the partners. MCS services as Owner-s Engineer for Tarahan
are estimated at 145 man-months at US$11,300/man-month (January 1981 prices,
including contingencies, fees, etc.), evenly distributed over 1982-84.
The upgrading of the Kertapati Terminal will be entirely the responsibility
of the PTBA project organization, with no outside assistance besides local
civil/mechanical/erection contractors. If technical assistance and advise
should be required, MCS, having personnel located in the PTBA offices, could
provide such services on an ad-hoc basis.
3.90.     Railway.  The Indonesian Government has created a special entity,
called KP3BAKA, to be responsible for the execution of the railway project.
KP3BAKA will be assisted by a project management consultant, Canadian Pacific
Consulting Services Ltd. (CPCS). The CPCS contract, which is acceptable to
the Bank, was signed on October 21, 1981. The terms of references for KP3BAKA
as well as its organization and staffing of key positions are acceptable to the
Bank. Chart 3-2 below summarizes the organization. The works are divided into
two blocks. Block A, for which CPCS is assigned overall responsibility,
includes: (i) operational plans for the construction period; (ii) renewal and
upgrading of existing track; (iii) construction of new track and bridges; (iv)
telecommunications; (v) training, and (vi) operational assistance. Block B,
for which KP3BAKA is responsible, assisted by CPCS advisors, includes: (i)
procurement for the whole railway component; (ii) renewal and upgrading of
existing bridges; (iii) upgrading of signalling system, (iv) buildings; and (v)
locomotives, rolling stock and workshop equipment. Annex 3-3 gives a more
detailed organization chart for KP3BAKA. CPCS services outlined above are
estimated to cost about US$34.2 million for 220 man-months of expatriates and
2,612 man-months of Indonesian staff. The total cost per man-month is about
US$9,200 for expatriates and about US$5.300 for Indonesian support staff.
3.91      The Ship.  The ship will be purchased by PANN following design and
construction supervision by Marine Consultants and Designers (MCD) of USA/Canada.
The qualifications and terms and conditions of MCD employment are acceptable
to the Bank and the contract with MCD has been signed. The design, construction
supervision and delivery supervision for the ship will involve 116 man-months
of work at an average cost, including allowances, of US$9,500 per man-month.
The MCD contract also includes a training component (para 3.56). The training



-  34 -                                        CHART 3-2
INDWESIA
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF RAILWAY PROJECT MANAGEMENT
[CChtef Director
PJKA
1CP3 BAKA
[Project Manager
KP3 BAKA
Project Control                CPCS                                            Project Secretary
CPCS Personnel       _  Project Director                                       KP3 BAKA Personnel
assisted by                                                                    assisted by
KP3 BAKA Personnel                                                             CPCS Advisors
Block A Work                        Block B Work
(CPCS Responsibility)            (KP3 BAKA Responsibility)
CPCS Personnel                    KP3 BAKA Personnel
assisted by                       assisted by
KP3 BAKA Personnel               CPCS Advisore
Industrial Projects Department/East Asia
and Pacific Projects Department
December 1981



- 35 
included covers design and trade-off studies, plans checking, construction,
operations, maintenance, voyage accounting, safety and navigation.
4.  Project Implementation Schedule
3.92      Project preparation is well advanced.  Phase I works--basic system
selections, preliminary and preparation of capital and operating engineering,
cost estimates, coal production schedule, staffing plan, training programs and
procurement documents--are now complete. Contract proposals for Phase II,
detailed engineering and implementation, and project monitoring work have been
signed.  Bids for the Tarahan Terminal turn-key contract were opened July 31,
1981, and suppliers/contractors for major procurement packages for the mining
component have been prequalified (para. 4.18).
3.93      Agreement on a realistic Project implementation schedule has been
a key problem during appraisal. During the post-appraisal mission in June/July
1981, a revised schedule--based on realistic assumptions regarding approval
delays during procurement and a realistic mine production build-up--was pre-
pared, discussed, and agreed to by all parties concerned. This schedule is
presented in Chart 3-3 on page 36 and forms the basis for the financial and
economic evaluation of the Project. Chart 3-4 on page 37 details the Project
critical path. Some float exists in the terminal and shipping components and
will be adjusted after all Project Management contracts are effective. Train-
ing programs will be implemented in phase with overall Project schedule and
future operation should not suffer from lack of trained personnel.
3.94      Procurement delays.  On the critical path of Project completion
is the process of internal Government approvals from tender documents to
contracts and opening of letters of credit. Specifically, on the critical
path are approvals by the Kepres 20 Team. The Steering Committee proposes
that special attention will be given to ensure that the internal approval
process proceeds inma timely fashion. 2-4 months were considered a reasonable
timeframe for obtaining Kepres 20 approval. To ensure that the schedule can
be met in practice, an early warning system will be adopted, whereby POKKORLAK
will inform the Steering Committee, the relevant Project entities and the Bank
whenever (i) bid evaluations have not been completed within 6 weeks after bid
closing or the bid award has not been made within 6 weeks after bid evaluation;
or (ii) a contract has not been finally approved and signed within 6 weeks
after bid award. This system will apply to all procurement items, whether
Bank financed or not. The implementation schedule provides for 6 months
between receipt of bids to contract effectiveness.
3.95      Production Build up.  The first bucket wheel excavator (BWE) will be
in production by end-October 1984-36 months after the decision to proceed
with Project implementation--all BWE mining systems will be commissioned
nine months later, and full production capacity will be reached by 1987.
While BAMCO expects to reach full mine output capacity already in early 1986
after 18 months of installing the first BWE a gradual production build up
during a 3-year period is considered more realistic and such a slower learning
curve has been assumed for all schedules and projections in this report.
3.96      The first thermal unit at Suralaya power plant is now scheduled to
start up in October 1984 with the second unit starting 9 months later, in
July 1985. This schedule, in combination with the above slow production



- 36 -                                                 CHART 3-3
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year         1982                 1983                 1984                  1985                 1986                  1S67                 1998
Months          5       10       1S       20       25       30       35       40       45       50       55       60      685      70       75       80
MINE
Main Mining Equipmet                     * I        *                     -                 -      A V_   QB
Coal H;ndling System               I
Power Distribution System         4                                       - _      _
Control & Communications Systm      .       I
Civil Works
In Pit Support Equipment               -     B                r  -                        _
Mine Service Facilities                - _ 5     . _    _
RAILWAY                                                                                                               OC
Track Etensions                     -------   *                                           _
Track Rehabilitation                 _ 4              r.
Bridge Impnroament                          I
Workhhop Improewemnt                   - _   t              . _
Signalling                                            -          -        -  V
Motie Power amd Rolling Stock          _    .         .          -                 _        -
Telecommunication.                   -4 V                      -   -                     -                          -
TARAHAN TERMINAL ITumkey)l                                                                        D
SHI1P                                                                                             8     
KERTAPATI TERMINAL                                   I V   0A
TOWNSITE                                                          - V A*    -                        -    -    -
TRIAINING                                                        _|                      _____    
OPERATIONAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                   Maximum dr.;tion 5 years
Coal Production eWE-           I- -                                                                                        __
Systen,s. I1000 ons                                                                 6 _  4                                   1.123                                        78
Wast Production EWE-Systemsn 1000 Ml                                                      960                 5235 rt;2i                         |       1420         |      152i
LEGEND~               -            OA  Start of Coal Mming
* Bid lnvitation                   O B Operational acceptance of EWE-Systtm
v Bid Closing                      0 C Railaay trenspont capacity 2.5 MTY
0 Bid Ealuoation Complte           0 0 Coal ta, be received
v Contract Approvud/Award          0 E Ship ready for teat loading
Industrial Project& Department
September 19B1                                                                                                                                                             World Bonk - 23076



- 37 -
CHART 3-4
INDONESIA
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT CRITICAL PATH SCHEDULE
Cal,nder Year          1982                    1983                    1984                    1985                    1986              1957
Monts       _    5          10  1-'             20       125        30       135       140        45   -5             55        s0
MINE MAIN EQlUIPMENT
Tendering - Award
Detailed Design                           0           -0
Fabrication-
Delivery to Site
Erection
Start-up First System                                                                        41       I            __        _        __O_
All Syttoms in Operetion                                                  i                   I                     P          ON _
MINE CIVIL WORKS
Site Prperation       Tendering - Awend                 0I - - -
Conttruction                                       _                                          i
Structums/Buildings:   Tendering -Awrd A r  Id
Construction
RIAILWAY'
Track Extension                                                           O - 
Track Reabilitation                                                       0                   .   .                                              _ l
Bridge Improvement
TARAHAN TERMINAL
Tendering - Award
Design - Construction                             O     --  _  _ _-
Ready to Receiv" Coal                         :
Reody to Ship Coal
Deuign
Tendering - Award
Construction
Ship Trials
LEGEND
o       Start of Activity
o       Activity Complete
_ _  _   Flout
Industrial Projcts Departnmant
October 1981                                                                                                                                                       World Bsnk - 2336



- 38 -
build-up during the first years of mine operation which is more realistic than
the one anticipated by the consultants, implies that the Bukit Asam mine will
not be able to meet the Suralaya demand until early 1987. To respond to this
situation and ensure an adequate coal supply as soon as Suralaya is commissioned,
PTBA will mine the small 4 million ton deposit at Muara Tiga located adjacent
to Bukit Asam. The scope and cost of exploiting Muara Tiga is described in
paras. 3.29-3.31 and Annex 3-2. PTBA agreed to establish an action plan for
the gradual exploitation of the Muara Tiga coal deposits and review progress
under the plan annually with the Government and the Bank. Annual review of
Muara Tiga production and investment is needed to synchronize output with
actual coal demand and potential Bukit Asam output during 1983-87 in consulta-
tion with the Government and the Bank.
3.97      While the railway should have no problem to complete rehabilitation
works to ensure movements of relatively small tonnages in FY84, certain track
rehabilitation, bridge improvement and signaling/telecommunications for the
railway, are on the critical path for the required transport to Tarahan of
2.4 million tpy, planned to be reached in November 1985.
3.98       The schedule is also contingent on having a firm minimum of 20 MW
electrical power available by October 1984. Since the first unit of the
coal-fired mine mouth power plant, 2 x 65 MW, will not be commissioned until
late 1985, an interim power supply has to be provided by PLN in addition to the
construction power to be provided under the Project.  PLN intends to construct
a diesel power plant, 4 x 6 MW, in the vicinity of the mine. During negotia-
tions the Government agreed to take all necessary action to ensure a firm
and steady interim power supply for mining operations.
3.99       Finally, the schedule is contingent on the timely acquisition of land
for the mine waste dump area, the mine community, railway extensions and
sidings, and the Tarahan Terminal. The schedules for land acquisition for each
Project component were reviewed in detail during the negotiations. The schedule
proposed by GOI was acceptable to the Bank. Specifically, for the railway the
local Governments-s decrees for assuring land requirements were issued by the
Governor of South Sumatra on April 8, 1981 and by the Governor of Lampung on
August 29, 1981. For the Tarahan terminal all land has been acquired. For
the mining site, the townsite expansion and the Kertapati terminal land acqui-
sition is in progress. Applications for land acquisition have been. submitted
to the Governor of South Sumatra, surveying has commenced and all land will
be acquired by September 1982 for the mining site and Kertapati terminal,
and December 1982 for the townsitie. During negotiations the Government and the
Project entities agreed to take all action necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land, and to inform the Bank, in a timely manner, that such
land is available for the Project.
IV. CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN AND PROCUREMENT
A.  Capital Costs
4.01      As summarized below, the total financing required for the Bukit Asam
Project is US$1,336 million, of which US$821 million, or 61%, is in foreign
exchange. Including allowances for physica'l and price contingencies, US$589
million (44%) will be needed for the mine system, US$88 million (7%) for the
mine community, US$89 million (7%) for the terminals, US$297 million (22%) for
the railway, and US$34 million (3%') for the shipping component.  A more detailed
breakdown of the capital cost estimates for each component is given in Annex 4-1.



- 39 -
Indonesia--Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Project
Capital Cost Estimates (1981 Base Cost Estimate)
---Rupiah billions--- -      -----US$ million------
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign    Total   %
Mine System
Civil Works, Equipment, Erection,
Insurance                            49.7    147.7    197.4       79.5   236.3       315.8 (38.5)
Engineering/Project Management        10.0      24.6      34.7      16.1    39.4       55.5  (6.8)
Training & Operational Assistance   5.7         11.6      17.4       9.2    18.6       27.8  (3.4)
Preoperating & Start-up               19.7       8.9      28.6      31.5    14.3       45.8  (5.5)
Subtotal                     85.2    192.8    278.0    136.3   308.6         444.9 (54.2)
Muara Tiga Development                   2.4       7.1       9.5       3.8    11.4        15.2  (1.9)
Mine Townsite
Civil Works, Equipment, Erection,
Insurance                            21.6       7.1      28.7     34.5    11.4        45.9  (5.6)
Engineering/Project Management         2.7       0.3       3.0       4.3     0.5        4.8  (0.6)
Training & Operational Assistance        -         -         -         -     0.1        0.1  (  -)
Preoperating & Start-up                0.6         -       0.6       1.0        -       1.0  (0.1)
Subtotal                     24.9       7.4      32.3      39.8    12.0        51.8  (6.3)
Kertapati Terminal
Civil Works, Equipment, Erection,
Insurance                             0.7       1.5       2.2       1.1     2.4        3.5  (0.4)
Engineering/Project Management           -       0.3       0.3         -      0.5       0.5  (0.1)
Subtotal                      0.7       1.8       2.5       1.1      2.9        4.0  (0.5)
Tarahan Terminal
Civil Works, Equipment, Erection,
Insurance                             8.9      18.0      26.8     14.2    28.7        42.9  (5.2)
Engineering/Project Management         1.5       4.8       6.3       2.4      7.7      10.1  (1.2)
Training & Operational Assistance   0.6          1.6       2.2       1.0      2.6        3.6  (0.5)
Preoperating & Start-up                0.8       0.1       1.0       1.4     0.2        1.6  (0.2)
Subtotal                     11.8      24.5      36.3      19.0    39.2       58.2  (7.1)
Railway/Communications
Civil Works, Equipment, Erection,
Insurance                            27.7      67.7      95.4     44.2   108.4       152.6 (18.6)
Engineering/Project Management         5.4      10.7      16.1       8.7    17.1       25.8  (3.1)
Training & Operational Assistance   5.6          6.4      12.0       9.0    10.2       19.2  (2.3)
Preoperating & Start-up
(inc. Accounting System)             11.0       0.7      11.7      17.6     1.1       18.7  (2.3)
Subtotal                     49.7      85.5    135.2       79.5   136.8      216.3 (26.3)
Ship
Vessel, Insurance                      0.4      12.4      12.8       0.6    19.9       20.5  (2.5)
Engineering/Project Management           -       1.1       1.1         -      1.8        1.8  (0.2)
Training & Operational Assistance   0.2          0.4       0.6       0.3      0.7        1.0  (0.1)
Preoperating & Start-up                0.3       0.1       0.4       0.5      0.1        0.6  (0-1)
Subtotal                      0.9      i4.0      14.9       1.4    22.5        23.9  (2.9)
Project Monitoring
POKKORLAK                              1.2         -       1.2       2.0        -        2.0  (0.2)
Consultant Services                    0.9       2.0       2.9       1.4      3.2        4.6  (0.6)
Subtotal                      2.1       2.0       4.1       3.4      3.2        6.6  (0.8)
TOTAL BASE COST                        177.8    335.4    513.2    284.3   536.6          820.9(100.0)
Physical Contingencies                  27.7      23.1      50.8      44.3    37.0        81.3
Price Escalation                        73.6      64.9    138.5    117.8   103.9         221.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     279.0    423.4    702.4    446.4   677.5   1,123.9
Refinancing of S-9 IND Loan                -       6.3       6.3        -      10.0       10.0
Incremental Working Capital             25.8       5.3      31.1      41.3      8.4       49.7
Interest During Construction a,         17.1      78.1      95.2      27.3   125.0       152.3
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
BUKIT ASAM PROJECT                    321.9    513.1    835.0    515.0   820.9   1,335.9
a/   Includes IDC through FY 1985.  Foreign portion includes IDC on long-term loans,
based on actual lending terms. Local portion includes differential between
actual terms and on-lending rate, plus IDC on Government debt.



- 40 -
4.02      The capital cost estimates are based on the Phase I consultants'
reports of August 1980, revised to reflect the agreed Project implementation
schedule (Chart 3-3, page 36). Cost estimates were prepared by Rheinbraun
Consulting for the mine system, and by MCS and its subcontractors (MCD and PT
Encona) for all other components. The estimates also include preoperating
expenses and interest during construction through FY85, pro-rated overburden
removal cost through FY86, and incremental working capital requirements and
capital expenditures for the mining community through FY87. BAMCO and MCS
have been requested to update these estimates to reflect 1981 prices, which
they have agreed to do as soon as the PMC contracts are effective. In the
interim, Bank staff undertook spot checks of major equipment suppliers to
determine whether the revised cost estimates, as escalated by an overall
inflation rate to 1981 US$, are in line with current market rates. Based on
the results of this survey, no significant changes are indicated.
4.03      It has been assumed that the Project will be exempt from all import
and custom duties for the first 10 years of the Project, as provided for under
Government Regulation No. 21 (1976) on Taxation and Other Levies on Mining
Exploitation of Non-Oil and Natural Gas. PTBA has applied to the Governnment's
importing authority to be officially qualified for this exemption.
4.04      Physical contingency allowances average 11% of total base cost
and are detailed as follows:
Physical Contingencies
(% of Base Capital Cost)
Local      Foreign
Mine                                  20%           5%
Mine Townsite                         10%           -
Railroad                              20%          10%
Tarahan Terminal
Civil Works                        25%          25%
Equipment                          20%          10-20%
Kertapati Terminal                    15%           -
Ship                                  25%          10-20%
The respective contingencies reflect the degree of completion of design/
engineering work, e.g. for mine equipment, which is already fully specified, a
5% allowance is considered appropriate.
4.05      Price escalation allowances have been added to the base capital and
physical contingency estimates as follows:
Price Contingencies
Year                  Local          Foreign
1981                   18%             9.0%
1982                   14%             8.5%
1983                   10%             7.5%
1984                   10%             7.5%
1985                   10%             7.5%
1986 onwards           10%             6.0%



- 41 
These rates are in line with the latest Bank assumptions on Indonesian and
world-wide inflationary trends. 1/
4.06      Total engineering and project management costs are estimated at
US$130 million or 10% of total capital costs, of which US$84 million is
in foreign exchange. This is in line with expenditures for similar projects.
Training programs for all components will cost US$30 million (US$12 million
in foreign exchange) and operational assistance for a 5-year period has been
estimated at US$35 million.  Costs of the staff within PTBA, ESS and POKKORLAK
working on the Project are estimated to total US$29 million.
4.07      The estimated total increase in working capital of US$50 million
consists of US$38 million for PTBA and US$12 million for PJKA/ESS; they
are based on financial projections and pricing assumptions discussed in
Chapter VI and include incremental needs until full system capacity is reached
in FY1987. Details are given in Annex 4-2.
4.08      Interest during construction or. long-term debt has been estimated at
US$152 million through FY1985. This includes the interest fees as on-lent by
the Government to the entities (i.e., 13.5% p.a. or actual interest rate if
higher). The total cost has been calculated on the basis of the financing plan
outlined in para. 4.10 and loan disbursements commencing in the second quarter
of 1982.
4.09      The total capital cost for the mine component, excluding price
escalation, working capital and interest during construction, is about US$148
per annual ton of coal in 1981 terms. In addition, the equivalent cost for
the delivery infrastructure (rail, terminals, ship) is about US$100 per annual
ton in 1981 terms. Depending on the type of deposit, location and infra-
structure needs, it has been estimated that new coal mines in LDCs require (in
1981 terms) investment costs averaging US$60-120 per annual ton capacity, and
infrastructure needs averaging an additional US860-120 per annual ton capacity.
The relatively high investment cost for the Bukit Asam mine component is due
to (i) low annual effective operating hours because of severe climatic
conditions, with heavy rainfalls causing material handling difficulties; (ii)
the large size of the Air Laya pit, with rather flat final pit slopes (17
degrees) and long waste material transportation distances to the waste dumps;
(iii) the the multi-seam nature of the deposit; and (iv) the need for
substantial system support investments within the minesite itself, transport,
and social infrastructure. This cost is acceptable, however, particularly
because this Project is only the first step in the development of an expanded
coal production capacity in South Sumatra, for which--except for additionial
mining system investments--all necessary minesite infrastructure will be
provided under this Project to allow an eventual throughput of up to 9-12
million tpy of coal. The cost of the delivery infrastructure is in line
with similar needs elsewhere and allows for a doubling of capacity at the
low incremental investment cost of about US$20/ton in 1981 terms. While the
Bukit Asam deposit is not competitive for steam coal exports for quality and
cost reasons, it is presently the lowest-cost coal development in Indonesia
and is cost competitive with imported alternative fuels.
1/   Considering the indicated divergence between expected local and foreign
inflation rates, a devaluation during the project implementation period
cannot be excluded. In case of a 25% devaluation by 1983, the govern-
ment's commitment to finance foreign exchange not covered by foreign
loans would require additional funding of about US$40 million.



- 42 -
B.   Financing Plan
4.10      The financing plan for the Project is summarized as follows:
Financing Plan - Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
A.  Government Contributions to:                         US$ million   %
- PTBA
as new equity                                      439.6      32.9
as long-term loan                                   86.7       6.5
- PJKA (as budget)                                     167.1      12.5
- PANN (as new equity)                                   8.8       0.7
- POKKORLAK (as budget)                                  8.6       0.6
- Interest during construction a/                       34.3       2.6
Subtotal                                         745.1      55.8
B. Internally Generated Cash:
- PTBA                                                  21.6       1.6
C. Long-Term Debt b/
- IBRD c/                                              180.0      13.5
- EDC/CTIDA                                            133.0       9.9
- KfW                                                   48.0       3.6
- Netherlands                                            2.5       0.2
- Export Credits and Other                             205.7      15.4
Subtotal                                         569.2      42.6
Total Financing                                1,335.9    100.0
a/   IDC on portions of foreign loans passed on as new equity on budget alloca-
tions to the Project entities.
b/   Of the total. long-term debt of US$569 million, US$143 million will be
given as a budget allocation to PJKA, and US$11 million as equity to PANN.
The rest, with the exception of US$10 million for refinancing Loan S-9
IND, will be on-lent by the Government (US$386 million to PTBA, US$20
million to PANN) at 13.5% p.a. or actual interest cost, whichever is
higher.
c/   Excluding US$5.0 million for proposed Coal Exploration project.
Foreign loans are being sought to cover direct foreign exchange, except for
the foreign exchange components of preoperating and start-up costs, incremental
working capital requirements and interest during construction, which will be
financed by the Government. The Government has also agreed to fund all local
cost and indirect foreign exchange. As usual in Indonesia, the Government
carries the foreign exchange risk on all foreign loans.
4.11      Co-financing by the Bank, KfW, and EDC/CIDA will be on the basis
of parallel financing. The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange
costs of (i) a portion of the mining equipment and (ii) the engineering,
project management and monitoring, training and technical assistance for all
components as further detailed in para. 4.22, and, in addition, would refinance
Engineering Loan S-9 IND. The EDC/CIDA loan will finance foreign exchange
costs of the turn-key contract for the Tarahan terminal, and equipment, civil
works and erection of the railway/communications system, except for the portion
of the signalling sub-system to be financed by the Dutch and possibly a small
railway package that would be procured through limited international competitive



- 43 -
bidding were sufficient EDC/CIDA funds unavailable at the time of tendering.
The KfW loan will finance parts of the bucket wheel system for the mining
system.
4.12      The table below summarizes the expected terms of long-term debt
financing of the Project:
Long-Term Debt Financing Terms
IBRD      EDC      CIDA     KfW      Dutch
Amount (US$)                  180.0 a/ 100.0    33.0    48.0          2.5
Interest Rate (%)              11.6       9.0     0        2          2.5
Repayment Period (years)       20        10       50      30         30
Grace Period (years)            5         3       10      10          8
Commitment Fee (%)              0.75      0.50    0        0.25       0
a/   Excluding US$5 million for coal exploration.
For the remaining debt financing of US$206 million, export financing will be
sought during tendering. Considering the type of procurement items (ship,
conveyors, mining equipment), availability of financing on export credit terms
should pose no problem. During negotiations, the Government agreed that
to the extent that such export financing is not forthcoming in the amounts or
timing required for timely Project implementation, the Government will provide
the necessary foreign exchange and local funds.
4.13      Considering the Project risks, the Project will be financed on a
50:50 debt-equity basis for PTBA. This implies that US$440 million will be
paid in as equity by the Government during the FY81-86 period. Appropriate
portions of the Bank loan and EDC/CIDA funds, the KfW credit and export
credits will be on-lent to PTBA at not less than 13.5% p.a. (or the actual
interest rate for export credits if higher) for fifteen years including 5
years of grace.
4.14      The 50:50 debt:equity structure that was previously agreed with
PT PANN under the Second Shipping Project (para. 2.23) is also proposed for
adoption in this loan, implying a Government equity contribution and loan of
US$20 million each, the latter on-lent to PT PANN at the same on-lending rate
as for PTBA, i.e., 13.5% interest p.a. for 15 years, including 5 years' grace.
Finalization of on-lending agreements to PTBA and PT PANN satisfactory to the
Bank will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.15      Of the PJKA financing requirement for the Project of US$310 million,
US$143 million will be raised through foreign loans (IBRD--US$31 million;
EDC/CIDA--US$90 million; Dutch US$2.5 million; export credits--US$20 million).
As PJKA is a Government Department, these loans and all remaining funds will
be appropriated through annual budget allocations.,
4.16      Timely Project implementation will hinge on the availability and
adequacy of Government contributions to the Project entities. The Government
has shown its commitment to the Project by providing interim financing and
budget allocations for FY1981 of US$48.5 million in foreign exchange and
US$18.7 million in local currency for the entities involved. This should be
adequate until loan financing becomes available in mid-1982. During negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed that it will provide in the future (i) the
necessary yearly budget allocations for PJKA and POKKORLAK, and (ii) equity



- 44 -
or loan contributions for PTBA and PANN to meet the Project's requirements in a
timely manner. Further, the Government will provide the necessary local or
foreign funds to complete the Project and to cover any possible cost overruns.
C.   Procurement
4.17      Procurement for all Bank-financed equipment items will follow
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures according to the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Procurement of items financed by EDC/CIDA, the Dutch
and KfW will follow the respective procurement procedures of these institu-
tions. Efficient procurement procedures will be followed for the remaining
Bukit Asam items to ensure reasonable prices.
4.18      Preparation of procurement documentation is well underway:
(a) for the mine, advertisement and prequalification have been
completed for all packages and prequalified suppliers approved
by the Bank. Tender documents for long lead time items
(bucket wheel, coal handling system, power distribution, and
control and communication systems) have been approved by the
Bank and have been sent out in early December.
(b) for the railroad, technical descriptions of equipment are
available, methodology and scope of track and bridge works
have been defined and bid packages identified. Remaining
work, for engineering and finalizing bid documents and
inviting bids, is expected to take 6-9 months after
effectiveness of the contract with CPCS (December, 1981);
(c) for the Tarahan terminal tender documents have been approved
by the Bank and invitations to bid were sent to four prequalified
suppliers on March 16, 1981, were opened on July 31, 1981, and
bid evaluation has started; and
(d) detailed engineering for the townsite and Kertapati terminal
has to await effectiveness of the contracts with PT ENCONA and
MCS, respectively. Tendering for these components is not
expected before mid-1982.
The first orders for major mining equipment and the Tarahan terminal are
expected to be placed in mid-1982.
4.19      Responsibility for procurement and contracting lies with the three
executing entities PTBA, PJKA and PANN. They will be assisted in prepara-
tion of tender documents, bid evaluation and contract negotiations by their
respective Project Management Consultants, BAMCO, CPCS and MCD. The early
warning system described in para. 3.94 should help to minimize delays during
the procurement process.
4.20      Based on present packaging by BAMCO of Bank-financed items for mine
equipment and machinery, no small packages are foreseen. However, if after
review of bid packaging, particularly for warehouse and workshop equipment and
machinery, small procurement items will result, limited international tendering 1/
will be used for items up to $300,000) and local prudent shopping for items up
to $50,000. In any case, the total amount of packages procured under prudent
shopping and/or limited international shopping should not exceed $3.0 million.
1/ Minimum of 4 bids from three different countries.



- 45 -
4.21      Contract Review.  All Bank-financed bidding packages estimated to
cost over US$300,000 equivalent for goods would be subject to the Bank's
prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 95%
of the total estimated value and 11 out of an estimated total of 15 packages
of goods contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to post review
by the Bank after contract award and before disbursement.
D.   Allocation and Disbursement of the Bank Loan
4.22      The Bank loan of US$185 million will finance goods and services as
shown in the table below, including US$5 million to start coal exploration
work under the proposed Coal Exploration Project. Since effectiveness of the
major engineering and project management contracts is necessary to start off
the activities on the critical path in the implementation schedule and since
such effectiveness requires some initial downpayments, it is recommended that
retroactive financing be allowed to cover the downpayments after October 1,
1981, estimated not to exceed US$9 million.
Allocation of the Bank Loan
(US$ millions)
Loan Allocation   % of Expenditure
Amount     %       to be financed
A. Bukit Asam Project
Engineering/Project Management/Training/
Operational Assistance
Mine - Technical Advisors                     1.6       0.9    )   100% of
- Project Management Consultant        39.0       21.1    )   foreign
- Operational Assistance (18 months)   5.5         2.9    )   expenditures
Railway
- Local Consultants                     0.2        0.1         100%
- Project Management Consultant        22.8       12.3    )
Tarahan Terminal - Owner's Engineer           1.6       0.9    )
Ship - Engineering/Training                   2.0       1.1    )
Project Monitoring Consultant                 3.0       1.6    )
Sub-total                            75.7       40.9    )
)   100%
Mine Equipment/Machinery/Erection                                     )
Coal Handling System                          8.2       4.4    )   of
Power Distribution                           13.2       7.1    )
Control and Communication                     4.1       2.2    )   foreign
Auxiliary Mining Equipment                   11.8       6.4    )
Drill Rigs                                    1.8       1.0    )   expendi-
Warehouse and Storage Area Equipment          1.5       0.8    )
Workshop Equipment and Machinery             10.5       5.7    )   tures
Sub-total                              51.1       27.6    )
Unallocated                                        43.2       23.4
Total Bukit Asam Project                    170.0      91.9
B.  Refinancing of S-9 Loan                        10.0        5.4        100%
C.  Coal Exploration/Engineering                    5.0        2.7        100% of foreign
expenditures
Total IBRD Financing                         185.0     100.0



- 46 -
4.23      As shown above, US$75.7 million or 41% of the Bank loan is expected
to finance engineering/project management/training and operational assistance
services. This is in line with the Bank's lending strategy in Indonesia, and
for mining projects in general, where alternative financing on reasonable terms
can be attracted and the Bank ought to play a catalytic role. Further, Bank
financing of the various Project management and technical assistance contracts
would ensure involvement in all phases of the Project.
4.24      The Project as defined in Chapter III is expected to be completed in
December 1986 and the loan fully disbursed by the third quarter of fiscal year
1987 (Annex 4-3). The disbursement schedule is shorter than the average profile.
This is warranted by the composition of loan concentrating on services and mine
equipment which are drawn down in the early part of Project imlementation.
V. THE MARKET FOR INDONESIAN STEAM COAL AND ANTHRACITE
A.   World Market Situation and Prospects
5.01      This section presents a brief overview of the future prospects for
the international coal market as background for the discussion of the market
for Bukit Asam coal (paras. 5.10-5.25). A more detailed account of the world
market situation is givern in Annex 5. Further material is available in the
Project File, including the various market-related reports and documents
listed in para. G, page vi.
5.02      Technically and economically recoverable world coal reserves are
estimated at 636 billion tons of coal equivalent (tce), 1/ about 230 years of
present coal consumption. World coal production for 1980 was estimated
at about 3.1 billion tce, accounting for just under 30% of commercial world
primary energy production. Only 8% of world coal production was traded, of
which three quarters was metallurgical coal. Thus, internationally traded
steam coal accounts for only 2% of world coal production, i.e. an international
steam coal market is only now being built up.
5.03      Price competitiveness with oil and security of supply are expected
to stimulate coal production over the next two decades primarily in developed
countries and coal would provide 40% or more of incremental world primary
energy supplies in the 1990s. Coal production is projected to increase from
3.1 billion tce in 1980 to 4.9 billion tce in 1990 (4.3% annual average growth
1980-90) and subsequently to 6.3 billion tce in 2000 (3.0% annual average
growth 1990-2000). Coal's renewed price competitiveness with oil is also
expected to result in increased use and importation of steam coal by energy
importing countries in Europe and the Far East in the 1980s and 1990s. Recent
studies indicate a possible range of steam coal trade of 150-180 million tce
in 1990 and 270-650 million tce in 2000. The higher end of the range would be
largely the result of substantially higher imports by six countries--France,
FR Germany, Italy, Japan, Korea and Taiwan--and would be supplied by increased
1/   One ton of coal equivalent (tce) = 1 metric ton of coal with a
calorific value of 7,000 kcal/kg.



- 47 -
exports from major exporters such as the United States, Australia, South
Africa and Canada.
5.04      Steam Coal.  From 1974-80, international thermal coal prices as
measured in real terms on an fob basis remained fairly constant, whereas crude
oil prices increased by a factor of four during the same period. Following
the 1979/80 oil price hikes, thermal coal import requirements increased
sharply; as a result, market conditions tightened very much and 1980 fob
prices increased by 20% in real terms, to US$37-41 per tce in 1981. On a
delivered basis, steam coal prices are now US$50-60 per tce, cif Japan, and
US$60-65 cif Europe compared with oil at US$170-180 per tce.
5.05      Though coal production costs are not likely to increase much in
real terms in the forthcoming decade, the rising costs of competitive fuels
and of new infrastructure--including transportation facilities to increase
coal supplies--are likely to push coal prices up in real terms. The extent
of these increases over the coming two decades will depend primarily on
coal's demand/supply balance. Following the 20% real price increase for
steam coal in 1980 coal demand is expected to strengthen further up to the
mid-eighties and reflected in real price increases of 1-3% p.a. For the
purpose of projections, it is assumed that coal prices will increase by 1.5%
annually in real terms until 1985. The rate between 1985 and 1995 could be
anywhere from 0% to 4%, depending on the actual supply/demand situation and
price increases for alternative fuels; a real increase of 2% annually in real
terms between 1985 and 1995, with a constant price thereafter, has been
assumed.  Results of various market projections are given in Annex 5, paras.
12-18.
5.06      Steam coal contracts have involved relatively small coal quantities
in the past (generally 250-500,000 tons annually for three to five years). It
is expected, however, that future thermal coal contracts will have to provide
for larger quantities over longer periods-e.g., 1-3 million tpy for 10-15
years--to facilitate the large volume of coal trade anticipated and commitments
to new power plants.
5.07      Anthracite Coal.  World reserves of anthracite are estimated at 20
billion tons, about one hundred times present annual production of 200 million
tons. Anthracite provides clean, continuous heat and is well suited for use
in household heating and cooking, electric power generation, metal processing
and, blended with coking coal, for coke manufacture. Anthracite production
has tended to decline in industrial countries but increase in centrally
planned economics (CPEs) in the past two decades.
5.08      In the international anthracite market, prices declined over the
period 1950 to 1974 as anthracite was substituted by more convenient and
cheaper energy sources. However, this trend has now reversed, and Japanese
anthracite importers have experienced price increases of 45% during 1976-80.
The quoted average 1981 fob price for People's Republic of China contracts
is US$65. Historically, Indonesian anthracite prices have failed to keep pace
with the overall anthracite market. In early 1981, PTBA has successfully
increased anthracite prices in new contracts to US$65/ton fob Kertapati, which
is in line with prices being received elsewhere in the market.



- 48 -
B.   The Market and Marketing of Indonesian Coal
1.   Demand/Supply Prospects
5.09      Following the 1976 Presidential Instruction (para. 2.09), steam
coal demand in Indonesia has been closely linked to PLN's expansion plans.
Steam coal demand for power generation is expected to total 7.5-9.0 million
tpy by 1990 (based on 2 x 400 MW plants at Suralaya, 2 x 65 MW mine mouth
plants at Tanjung Enim, and 1,400 MW to be developed at Suralaya and/or a new
location in East Java) and taking into account known variations in coal
quality; and 12-15 million tpy by 1995 (based on additional 3 x 500 MW units
at Suralaya or in East Java). Steam coal and anthracite demand for industrial
use--i.e., for tin and nickel processing, and cement and brick manufacture--
are expected to reach 1 million tpy by 1990 and 1.5-2 million tpy by 1995.
5.10      Projected coal demand in Indonesia can be met by either domestic
coal production from existing or new mines or imports, primarily from Australia.
When the Bukit Asam project reaches full capacity in 1987 and Ombilin is
rehabilitated, total domestic coal production will total about 3.5-4.0 million
tpy. Thus, whether the 1990 coal demand of about 10 million tpy can be met
from domestic sources will depend on the urgency with which the Government and
the private partners to the production sharing agreements pursue the exploration
and pre-investment programs discussed in paras. 2.11 and 3.61-3.63. Under
realistic assumptions it should be possible (i) to commission a second 3 million
tpy open pit mine in South Sumatra in 1987/88, and (ii) to produce 1-3 million
tpy from new mine developments by foreign companies in Kalimantan. As these
supply prospects do meet only 80-90% of forecast 1990 coal demand, imported
steam coal from Australia remains an important competitive source of coal for
Indonesian users. The Government is considering importation at least for the
medium term and to meet peak demand. As a result, the Suralaya harbor facil-
ities include a coal pier for imports and discussions are underway to determine
the appropriate transshipment system.
2.   The Market for Bukit Asam Steam Coal
5.11      As for many coal mines with captive markets, the Project does not
face significant market or marketing risks because most of its output will be
bought by two customers (PLN and PT Semen Baturaja, a cement company), account-
ing for 2.95 million tpy or 95% of fu:Ll capacity. Demand for Bukit Asam steam
coal is expected to develop as follows:



- 49 -
Bukit Asam--Projected Steam Coal Demand, FY1984-88
(million tons)
Fiscal Year                              1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
PLN
Suralaya I & II                        1.04   2.14   2.45   2.45   2.45
Mine Mouth Plant                       0.04   0.15   0.40   0.40   0.40
Subtotal                            1.08   2.29   2.85   2.85   2.85
PT Semen Baturaja                        0.08   0.08   0.08   0.08   0.10
Bangka                                   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.04
PJKA                                     0.02   0.02    -        -      -
Others                                   0.06   0.06   0.06   0.06   0.06
Total Steam Coal Demand                1.28   2.49   3.03   3.03   3.05
3.   The Market for Bukit Asam Anthracite
5.12      The domestic market for anthracite comprises mainly the two mining
companies PT Aneka Tambang (other minerals, including nickel) and PT Tambang
Timah (tin). Utility companies and trading firms in Singapore, Hong Kong,
Taiwan and Malaysia constitute the current export market. Contracted volumes--
predominantly export volumes--have increased significantly in recent years, as
shown in the table below.
Indonesia--PNTB's Anthracite Contract Volumes, 1977-80
(000 tons)
1977      1978       1979       1980
Domestic Market                    29.0       22.0       19.2      29.4
Export Market                       1.9       15.0       62.0      49.3
Total                         30.9      37.0       81.2       78.7
Due to limited production capacity, PNTB has rarely been able to meet contrac-
tual demands, has signed only short-term (one-year) contracts, and has con-
stantly been forced to decline requests for larger amounts and new contracts.
However, it is expected that PTBA will be able to increase its anthracite
production to about 115,000 tons by 1984 and that production levels will
remain constant thereafter.
4.   Marketing of Bukit Asam Coal
5.13      At present, the small administrative staff of PNTB, handles the
marketing of Indonesian coal.  Domestic contracts are signed for one-year
periods for run-of-mine coal, i.e., without quality specifications, premiums
or penalties. Deliveries are arranged fob or cif as required by the client,



- 50 -
with payments based on letter of credit. While domestic prices are agreed
annually with consumers and approved by the Ministry of Mines and Energy,
export prices are set competitively by the trading houses purchasing Bukit
Asam coal fob.
5.14      Due to the small quantities of coal produced at present, PNTB
and PTBA staff have little experience in drawing up and negotiating long-
term marketing arrangements as envisaged for the Project (para. 6.01). The
Indonesian law firm of Mochtar, Karuwin & Komar (MKK) has therefore been
engaged to advise PTBA on all new sales contracts. PTBA has submitted for
the Bank's review draft contracts with PLN specifying the principle for sale
of coal to Suralaya and the mine mouth power plant. The signing by PTBA and
PLN of a Letter of Intent satisfactory to the Bank for such a coal sales
contract is a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.15      To ensure that PTBA takes adequate advantage of market developments
for anthracite and any uncommitted steam coal output, PTBA has established the
nucleus for a Marketing Division to follow domestic coal demand, export/import
trends, coal contract conditions, and price developments. PTBA intends to
prepare periodically a detailed market analysis of potential--particularly
domestic--markets for PTBA coal.
5.   Coal Pricing Policy
5.16      Domestic coal prices charged by PNTB are discussed with the Ministry
of Mines and Energy when annual contracts are submitted for approval. The
1979/80 realized unit coal prices averaged:   (i) US$17.25 per ton of steam
coal (fob) Boom Baru, i.e., transshipped via Kertapati on barges on the Musi
River; (ii) US$26.90 per ton of anthracite (fob) Kertapati for local users; and
(iii) US$36.10 per ton of anthracite (fob) Kertapati for export. As rail
tariffs from Tangjung Enim to Kertapati averaged only US$3.0/ton and shipping
charges from Kertapati to Boom Baru aLveraged about US$5.0/ton, local anthracite
sales and foreign steam coal prices have been subsidized at US$18-25 per ton
during the period. In late 1981, the Ministry agreed to a coal price increase
for 1982 to US$32.0 per ton, or about 70% of domestic oil prices.
5.17      There is agreement between the Government and the Bank that one of
the objectives of the Project is to put Indonesian coal production and,
in particular, the Bukit Asam operation on a sound economic/financial basis
and to eliminate subsidies. This issue is, however, complicated by the fact
that domestic oil prices continue to be subsidized and potential users of
Bukit Asam coal are reluctant to pay more for domestic coal than for oil.
Following the major domestic oil price increase of June 1980, oil prices in
Indonesia, as compared with world market prices, are as follows:



- 51 -
Oil Prices: Comparison of Indonesian Domestic and World Prices
Indonesian Domestic Price    World Price a/
(Rp/liter)      (US$/ton)    (US$/ton)
Kerosene                         37.5            69.6          366.6
High-speed diesel                52.5            97.4          331.9
Bunker C b/                      45.0            83.5          234.0
a/   Fob price, Far East market.
b/   Used in power generation, such as at Suralaya.
Accordingly, for coal prices to be equivalent to 1981 domestic Bunker C
prices, Bukit Asam coal should be priced at US$35.6 per ton at Suralaya in
1981 terms, 1/ and at US$99.6 to be equivalent to world market Bunker C price.
5.18      As Indonesian oil is of high quality, only limited quantities
(about 6%) are used domestically for power generation, but it is exported and
lower quality crude oil imported from the Gulf states. PERTAMINA, the State
oil and natural gas entity, buys Bunker C for about US$235 per ton cif and
sells it to PLN at Rp 52,200 (US$83.5) per ton. The oil subsidy is thus
reflected in (i) the balance of payment in the form of foreign exchange cost
of importing oil at the world market prices, and (ii) PERTAMINA's profit and
loss account in the form of a loss of US$146.5 for each ton of oil sold to
PLN. The use of coal instead of oil priced cheaper than coal, therefore,
implies:
(a)  foreign exchange savings on the macro-economic level;
(b)  increased profits by PERTAMINA; but
(c)  cost reduction to PLN and other users only when the
domestic, subsidized oil price is above the agreed price
of coal equivalent supplied by the Bukit Asam operation.
5.19      Agreement has been reached between the Government and the Bank as
part of their general economic policy dialogue that domestic oil subsidies--
in particular for large-scale users--should be phased out gradually. Although
the Bukit Asam mining operation is scheduled to come on stream only in FY1984/
85 and to reach full production in FY1987, it is uncertain to what degree
domestic oil price subsidies will be eliminated by that time.
1/   One ton equivalent to 1,160 liters; one ton of Bunker C at 18,600 BTU/lb,
average Bukit Asam coal of 5,500 net kcal/kg equivalent to 9,900 BTU/lb
and assuming a factor of 0.8 to account for additional investments for
coal firing at Suralaya.



- 52 -
Therefore, agreement was reached during negotiations that domestic coal
prices, and in particular, PTBA coal prices to PLN, for the Suralaya plant
be set at a price which will cover all production costs including overhead
and administration costs, handling costs, land and sea transportation costs
and insurance and produce an annual return to PTBA on revalued assets acquired
for the Project of not less than 13%, provided such price would not be (i)
higher than the long-term contract price for steam coal in the world market
adjusted for coal quality and accounting for transportation and handling costs
to Suralaya or (ii) lower than 80% of such contract prices.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Contractual Arrangements
6.01      The financial analysis is based on certain contractual arrangements
to be agreed among the Project entities as follows:
(i) Coal purchase agreements between PTBA and PLN for coal
deliveries unloaded at Suralaya and to the mine mouth plan;
(ii)  a railway transport agreement between PJKA and PTBA;
(iii)  a long-term ship charter and operating agreement between
PTBA and Bahtera (with PT PANN as co-signer); and
(iv)  a bareboat charter agreement between BAHTERA and PT PANN.
6.02      The coal purchase agreemenit is the principal contractual arrangement.
While a Ministerial Decree from the Ministry of Mines and Energy will obligate
PTBA to produce and sell coal to PLN and PLN to purchase coal from PTBA for
use at Suralaya and the mine mouth plant, the coal purchase agreement
will establish the contract conditions. These will specify, inter alia, (i)
annual quantities to be produced and sold; (ii) characteristics and standard
specifications of the coal to be delivered; (iii) delivery and receipt schedules;
(iv) point of delivery; (v) method of weight measurement; (vi) sampling and
analysis procedures; (vii) method of payment, and (viii) conditions of force
majeure. The contract, backed by a Ministerial Decree, will also establish
the coal pricing mechanism, to be used as from the time of Bukit Asam start-Up
(see paras. 5.19 and 6.07). During negotiations the Government agreed to
ensure signing of such a contract acceptable to the Bank by PTBA and PLN.
6.03      The railway transport agreement, as well as that for ship transport,
is based on PTBA's retaining ownership of the coal until it is delivered at
Suralaya. As presently drafted, the transport contract between PJKA and PTBA
is comprised of 2 documents: a Head Agreement and an Execution Agreement.
Together, the documents establish: (i) the intent of the parties to require
and provide the transport of coal; (ii) the mechanism for calculating tariffs
for Suralaya and non-Suralaya coal; and (iii) the scope OF PJKA's responsibility
to transport the coal, as well as standard contract conditions as outlined in



- 53 -
the coal purchase agreement. During negotiations PTBA and PJKA agreed to
enter into such a coal transport contract, satisfactory to the Bank.
6.04      The shipping contract between PTBA and Bahtera/PANN will follow
standard time charter contracts.
B.   PT Bukit Asam
1.   Coal Pricing and Revenue Projections
6.05      The sales price of Bukit Asam coal for Suralaya will be set, as
agreed during negotiations, at a price which will cover all production costs
including overhead and administration costs, handling costs, land and sea
transportation costs and insurance and produce an annual return to PTBA on
net revalued assets acquired for the Project of not more than 13%, subject
to the condition that such price shall not be (i) higher than the long term
contract world market price for steam coal adjusted for coal quality and
delivered to Suralaya, or (ii) lower than 80% of such contract price.
6.06      Detailed calculations comparing this "cost plus" formula with
opportunity cost of importing and delivering steam coal to Suralaya show that
the price established on the basis of 13% annual return on PTBA's net revalued
assets exceeds the opportunity cost price for the first 14 years of production
until 1998 1/ on the basis of the price assumptions reviewed above. The
financial projections which are estimated for the 1982-94 period, therefore,
project PTBA's sales revenues:
(a)  for shipments to Suralaya based on the opportunity
cost price of importing steam coal;
(b)  for domestic sales of steam coal to the mine mouth power
plant and other users based on US$32 per ton in 1981 terms
until the start up of the Bukit Asam mine in 1984 and the
opportunity cost price of importing coal adjusted by inland
transport and handling cost thereafter;
(c)  for local anthracite sales based on the Far East market
price of US$60/ton for Tanjung Enim (US$65/ton fob Kertapati).
As explained in Annex 5, it is assumed that this price will rise
at 3% p.a. in real terms. While this may be a conservative
estimate of anthracite-s expected price growth rate, given the
small coal volumes involved, this pricing assumption will not
impact significantly on projections of PTBA's financial performance.
6.07      The most competitive long-term steam coal contract for Indonesia,
i.e., the opportunity cost price, should now and in the foreseeable future
be based on importing coal from Australia. At present, long-term contracts
for steam coal from Australia (average quality coal of 6,700 kcal/kg) were
available at fob A$47/ton (US$54/ton). These contracts include semi-annual
price adjustment clauses, whereby escalation of mine operating costs are passed
on to the customer, together with all actual tariff increases for railway and
1/   Not including initial production and start-up phase.



- 54 -
terminal/port handling charges. Further, the contracts foresee renegotiation
of the base price every two years to take into account changes in general
market conditions, but at no time will the price be lower than the agreed-upon
base price. The market analysis (Annex 5) indicates that steam coal prices in
the Far East are likely to increase by 1.5% p.a. in real term through FY85, 2%
p.a. from FY85 through FY94 and remain constant thereafter.
6.08      The equivalent price for lower-quality Bukit Asam steam coal comparable
to a US$54/ton fob Australia world market price would be US$44/ton. Adding
about US$13/ton in 1981 terms for shipment l/ from Australia to Suralaya, the
delivered price in mid-FY1981 terms--or the long-term opportunity cost of
importing coal for Suralaya--is estimated at US$57/ton. Based on a recent
market survey, it has been assumed for purposes of these financial projections
that shipping costs will increase at 4% p.a. in real terms until 1990, and
unloading costs will remain constant in real terms.
6.09      The above pricing assumptions result in a projected sales price of
Bukit Asam coal fas Suralaya of US$57/ton in 1981 real terms and US$44/ton
f.o.r. Tanjung Enim. By time of full production in FY1987 real term prices
should have increased to US$63/ton fas Suralaya and US$49/ton f.o.r. Tanjung
Enim.
2.   Operating Costs
6.10      Mine.  Operating costs for the new mine system were developed in
March 1980 prices by Rheinbraun Consulting and have been revised according to
the Project implementation schedule given in Chart 3-3. Estimates of Muara
Tiga operating costs are given in Annex 3-2. Operating costs for anthracite in
the Suban Pit through 1990, and for a PTBA representative office in Jakarta
and administrative offices at Tanjung Enim, are based on PTBA's proforma budget.
6.11      For the new mine, operating costs include costs for overburden and
waste removal, mining, and coal handling are estimated to fluctuate from
year to year, mainly as a function of stripping activity and conveying dis-
tance. The coal production schedule calls for considerable variations in
annual volumes of waste removal--particularly in the early years--because of
significant changes in the topography as the mining fronts move forward. The;
average waste conveying distance will decrease in FY1997 due to the change
from an outside dump to a dump inside the mined-out part of the pit. The
operating costs also reflect very steep increases in manpower requirements
between FY1982 and FY1986, thereafter rising to a peak requirement of 2,950
employees by FY1990.
6.12      The table below gives estimated operating costs for the Project
mine until FY1994.
1/   US$13/ton reflects long term shipping and unloading cost assuming appro-
priate facilities are being constructed at Suralaya. Actual cost up to
the time of completing such facilities has been estimated at US$22/ton
(Annex 6-6) in 1981 terms.



- 55 -
PTBA--Bukit Asam Mine Operating Costs, FY1984/94
(mid-FY1981 US$ per ton)
Fiscal Year                      1984   1985   1986   1987   1989   1991   1994
Labor                            17.1   19.3    5.9    3.3    3.0    3.0    2.9
Materials/Supplies               41.1   47.2   20.0   10.5   10.3   10.8   10.2
Fuel                             13.7    6.7    0.5    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2
Total                      71.9   73.3   26.5   14.2   13.6   14.1   13.4
- of which capitalized
overburden removal            (51.3)  (53.3) (12.5)  ( -)   ( -)   ( -)   ( -)
The mine operating cost of about US$14 per ton of steam coal at full produc-
tion of 3.0 million tpy is reasonable, given the special characteristics of
the coal deposit, and in line with similar open pit mines worldwide.
6.13      Townsite.  PTBA-s average annual costs for maintenance for .he mine
townsite and social infrastructure have been estimated at US$1.2 million.
This assumes minimum maintenance expenses (1% of initial capital cost per
year) for single family housing, site work and sports grounds, and normal
operation and maintenance (10% of initial capital cost per year) on dormitories
and utilities (electricity, water supply). These expenses must be considered
a part of wages and salary expenditures.
6.14      Tarahan Terminal.  Average annual operating costs for the new
terminal were estimated by MCS, based on a projected staff of 91 people
and on labor rates and maintenance costs obtained from similar operations in
Indonesia. A 10% allowance was made for contingencies, with the following
estimated annual operating cost:
PTBA--Average Annual Operating Costs for Tarahan Terminal
(mid-FY1981 US$)
US$000    US$/ton      % Total
Labor                           403      0.165          20
Materials/Supplies            1,475       0.604          75
Fuel                             97      0.040            5
Total                   1,975       0.809         100
6.15      Kertapati Terminal.  Average annual operating costs for the Kertapati
terminal at a throughput of 115,000 tpy of anthracite and 98,000 tpy of steam
coal are estimated by MCS to be as follows:
PTBA--Average Annual Operating Costs for Kertapati Terminal
(mid-FY1981 US$)
US$000   US$/ton  % Total
Labor                     336      1.577       46
Materials/Supplies        395      1.855       53
Fuel                         8     0.038        1
Total                 739      3.470     100



- 56 -
6.16      Shipping Costs and PT PANN Charges.  The provision of shipping
services by PT PANN and PT Bahtera Adhiguna are based on an agreement with
PTBA and a lease agreement between PT PANN and Bahtera Adhiguna. In line
with provisions under shipping Credit 1250-IND, PT PANN will lease the ship
to Bahtera Adhiguna at a base price that is amortized over 15 years and will
yield an annual return on revalued net fixed assets of 13.0%; this should in
turn yield an internal rate of return of about 10% in real terms over the
life of the Project. In addition, the Lease Agreement provides for payment
of estimated and mutually agreed annua]L operating expenses of Bahtera Adhiguna
as well as actual fuel expenditures. Average annual cost to PTBA of coal
shipment to Suralaya are estimated as follows:
Average Annual Shipping Cost
(mid--FY81 US$)
US$000      US$ton      % Total
PT PANN Charter                       6.53         2.67          85
Bahtera Adhiguna
Fuel                            0.53         0.22           7
Other Operating Cost            0.59         0.24           8
Sub-Total               1.12         0.46          15
Total                   7.65         3.13         100
3.   Financial Projections
6.17      Detailed financial projections for PTBA have been prepared based on
assumptions given in Annex 6-1. The projections are presented in Annexes 6-2
to 6-5. The projections have been prepared on an Indonesian fiscal year basis
in current Rupiah terms and assume throughout an exchange rate of Rp 625 =
US$1. As PTBA sells f.a.s. Suralaya to PLN, rail and sea transport tariffs
charged by PJKA and PANN/Bahtera are shown at full cost in PTBA's income
statement.



- 57 -
PTBA--Summary of Financial Projections
(Rps billion--current terms)
Fiscal Year           1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1992
Production
(000 tons)
Steam Coal           200    400    730  1,195  2,360  3,040  3,040  3,040  3,040  3,040
Sales Revenue          7.0    9.5   48.1   63.4  123.8  174.8  184.9  205.2  218.1  255.4
Total Operating
Expenses             6.8   11.6   37.2   47.3   65.5  107.5  120.0  129.3  140.3  165.4
Depreciation           1.7    2.7    3.3   23.2   23.0   26.1   27.1   25.7   26.9   27.9
Operating Income
(Loss)              (1.6)  (4.8)   7.6   (7.1)  35.3   41.2   37.8   50.2   51.0   62.1
Interest Expense        -      -       -      -    38.4   36.3   33.9   31.3   28.4   21.4
Net Income (Loss)
Before Taxes        (1.6)  (4.9)   7.6   (7.1)  (3.0)   4.9    3.9   18.8   22.6   40.6
Net Income (Loss)
After Taxes         (1.6)  (4.9)   4.9   (7.1)  (3.0)   3.2    2.5   12.2   14.7   22.4
Internal Cash
Generation           1.7    2.7    8.2   16.1   20.0   29.3   29.6   37.9   41.6   50.3
Cash Surplus (Loss)   0.1      -      9.7   19.8   (1.0) (24.3)  (9.3)   2.2   10.0   15.2
Current Ratio          7.8    9.6    5.8   10.3    1.9    1.3    1.1    1.2    1.4    2.0
Debt Service Coverage n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   1.5    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.4    1.4
(times)
L-D Debt:Total Equity29:71  36:64  47:53  51:49  53:47  51:49  50:50  46:54  43:57  33:67
6.18      During the past decade, the Government subsidized the Bukit Asam
operation at a rate of US$2-3 million per year for operating losses and
US$2-10 million per year for replacement investments. The objective of the
Project is to transform PTBA to a financially viable and non-subsidized
enterprise. The Government's intention to double present coal prices f.o.r.
Tanjung Enim to about US$32/ton in 1981 terms is a first step in this direction.
As illustrated above, PTBA must be expected to show losses of up to Rp 7.1
billion per year until 1986. These losses are partly due to still-subsidized
coal prices during FY1982-83 and PTBA's high production cost during the start-up
period while coal prices are related to the long-term opportunity cost of
importing coal.
6.19      The above projections also assume that direct budget allocations
are made to finance the Muara Tiga crash program estimated to cost about
US$15.2 million in 1981 terms for a production level of 750,000 tpy. As
actual investments for Muara Tiga can be phased to adjust to changes in the
Project completion date for both the Project and the Suralaya plant, agreement
was reached during negotiations with the Government and PTBA on preparation and
annual review of an action plan for Muara Tiga exploitation and the timely
provision of funds (para. 3.94).



- 58 -
6.20      Under the agreed pricing policies, PTBA should start realizing
increasing profits as soon as 3.0 million tpy output is reached in 1987. The
cash flow will still be tight during the 1987-89 period as loan repayments
start in 1987 and initial interest burden remains high. This is illustrated
by a debt/service coverage of 1.2-1.4. 1/ During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PTBA shall from the Completion Date 2/ and thereafter (i) maintain a debt:
equity ratio of not more than 60:40;7(ii) not incur any debt, other than for
money borrowed for financing the Project, unless a debt service coverage
ratio (including the debt to be incurred) of not less than 1.3 is maintained;
and (iii) maintain a current ratio of at least 1.3 and, until the Completion
Date; (iv) not undertake non-Project investments exceeding in the aggregate
US$20 million per year without the prior review of the Bank.
C. PJKA-ESS
6.21      Objective.  The considerable investments in fixed assets, training
and technical assistance for the railway component are needed to ensure
efficient movement of coal to Tarahan and Kertapati.  At the same time, these
investments will rehabilitate the entire ESS network. During negotiations, the
Government and PJKA agreed to take all measures necessary to ensure efficient
coal movements on the ESS system and establish all management and financial
controls necessary to ensure adequate cost control and tariff calculation for
coal and non-coal traffic.
6.22      As a basis for such a commitment, training, operational assistance
and the introduction/operation of an agreed-upon accounting system by April
1983 is foreseen as part of the Project (para. 3.74). Further, ESS should
obtain sufficient funds to cover its working capital needs and to respond
promptly to any emergency repair needed for efficient coal movements. Accor-
dingly, PJKA agreed that ESS will maintain (i) a minimum operating inventory
level of six months supply of material for normal maintenance of fixed instal-
lation and rolling stock and three months of fuel starting FY1984 and (ii) cash
balances and short-term deposits of at least 16% of the prior year's working
expenses.
1/   In case of a 25% devaluation during project implementation and pegging
of domestic coal prices to prices of imported coal, PTBA would be
able to achieve a first small profit already in 1985 and a 1.5 debt/
equity ratio by 1986. The Government expects to reinvest any surplus
cash generated in the course of devaluation in developing new mines
in South Sumatra and/or ensuring appropriate distribution of dividends.
2/   The Completion Date is defined as the date when (i) physical construction
of all of the facilities included in the Project has been completed; (ii)
for a continuous period of twelve months, the mine has produced at least
2.4 million tons per year of coal meeting the Suralaya specifications;
(iii) the transport system included in the Project has carried at least
2.0 million tons per year; and (iv) PTBA hs a long-term debt:equity
ratio of at least 60:40.



- 59 -
6.23      Tariffs are regulated by Government, although recently PJKA has
been permitted to negotiate rates for bulk freight. As the rail investment
for the Bukit Asam coal is related to a commercial venture, the incremental,
internal rate of return in real terms on the rail component should be comparable
to the return on the project as a whole and in any case not less than 10%. To
achieve such an internal rate fo return over the life of the Project would
require a 13% yearly return on revalued assets. Accordingly, PJKA has agreed
to set coal tariffs to enable ESS to achieve an annual return on revalued
project assets of not less than 13%. The resulting tariff averages US$15/ton
in 1981 terms as detailed below:
ESS--Average Transfer Price for Suralaya Coal
(mid-FY1981 US$ per ton)
Transfer Price Component                       Amount        % Total
Capital Cost                                   13.73            89
Operating Costs
Labor                                        0.30             2
Fuel and Materials                           0.59             4
Telecommunications                           0.79             5
Subtotal                                 1.68            11
Total Transfer Price                       15.41           100
The percent contributions of each of the operating and capital cost elements
depicted above remains fairly stable over the life of the Project.
D. Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Tests
6.24      The incremental financial rate of return for the Project has been
calculated in real terms. As the Project helps rehabilitate the entire ESS
rail system, prepares the ground for further mine expansions in South Sumatra
and builds up PTBA's capacity to develop and operate additional mines, the
incremental financial rate of return depends to a large extent on the methodo-
logy of allocating the total or a portion of the cost to this Project. The
incremental financial rate of return calculations are based on the cost and
benefit streams elaborated in Annex 6-1 to Annex 6-5 for the rail, mine,
terminal and sea transport components. Capital costs also include the US$10.5
million financing for Engineering studies under earlier Bank loans. In
addition, Annexes 6-6 and 6-7 define and detail the cost benefit streams for
the mine system and railway, respectively, for (i) the "with" and "without"
cases for the incremental calculations and (ii) the development and operation
of a second 3.0 million tpy mine in South Sumatra coming on stream in 1988.
6.25      Based on these assumptions (i) the incremental financial return of
the integrated mine/transport project is 11.7%, assuming the Project described
here, i.e. 3.0 million tpy output of which 2.4 million tpy shipped to Suralaya;
(ii) the incremental financial rate of return is 14.5% assuming that a new 3.0
million tpy mine is brought on stream by 1988.



- 60 -
6.26      Sensitivity Tests.  The incremental financial return are, in particu-
lar, sensitive to changes in revenues and Project delays:
(a)  Revenues
Were revenues to drop by 10% during the entire life of
the Project, the incremental financial rate of return would
decline to 10.2%. Were revenues to drop by 10% during the
first five years of production only, the incremental rate of
return would still be 11.0%. The likelihood of this event
is primarily related to the Government's effort to set prices
at an appropriate level and not so much to market risks or
production/transport difficulties. As Muara Tiga provides
back-up production capacity, a 10% drop in output during
the first five years of Bukit Asam production could be counter-
balanced by increased production from other mining areas at
Tanjung Enim. As for the railroad, sufficient capacity exists
during the early years (1984/85) and bottlenecks may only
occur by 1986.
(b)  Delays
In case all Project components were delayed by one year and
no coal were shipped during that period, the return would
fall to 10.3%. This is a highly unlikely event, as coal
production at Muara Tiga would proceed independently from the
Bukit Asam schedule and the ESS rail system can provide a
minimum of services even under extreme conditions. Therefore,
as more realistic events--(i) assuming that the Bukit Asam mine
is delayed by one year allowing shipping of only 750,000 tpy
from Muara Tiga, the rate of return will fall 10.5%; (ii)
assuming a delay of railway completion of one year, allowing
transport of up to 1.5 million tpy on the existing system 1/,
the incremental rate of return will still be about 11.0%. If the
Suralaya power plant were delayed by one year, certain Project
investments would be phased and Muara Tiga production minimized.
The Project's return is then likely to fall to about 11.0%.
depending on investment phasing.
6.27      Should the capital and operating cost both increase by 10%, the rate
of return would be 10.3%.  The incremental financial return is estimated to
still reach 10% if capital costs increased by 10%, the operating cost increased
by 10% during the first five years, and if the rail and mine components
slipped by 12 months during the procurement period.
6.28      The timing of a second mine in South Sumatra is, important for the
Project's return. Considering the proven reserves in the former Shell con-
cession and the preinvestment work which will be initiated by the coal
1/   Assuming that the rail link to Tarahan, the 18-ton coal cars and the
terminal at Tarahan are completed. All these components are not on
the critical path.



- 61 -
Exploration Loan, 1988 is a realistic target. If, however, the second mine
in south Sumatra were to come on stream only in 1991, and require substantial
additional railroad investments on the order of $100 million in 1981 terms
(over and above those detailed in Annex 6-6), the incremental financial return
would be 13%, instead of 14.5% considered as realistic base case.
E. Major Risks
6.29      The Project faces relatively few technical risks.  The mining
system, the railway rehabilitation and the terminal facilities are well-known
technologies and Project preparation/engineering undertaken to date limit the
technical surprises which can be expected. Also, the Project includes ample
provision for operational assistance during start-up and the first years of
operation. This should provide the entities with the necessary support to
deal with unforeseen technical problems.
6.30      As to marketing risks, the Bukit Asam plant is a captive supplier of
coal to Suralaya, Baturaja and other local customers. As during the initial
years, the Bukit Asam production will be supplemented by Muara Tiga coal, a
certain flexibility exists to adjust to demand. Therefore, the Project foresees
that any investments and production targets for Muara Tiga will be reviewed on
an annual basis before commitments are made. A major delay in the Suralaya
power plant and Mine Mouth plant completion could crucially affect PTBA's and
ESS's schedules and cash flow. Close coordination between PTBA/POKKORLAK and
PLN is foreseen.
6.31      The principal risk facing this Project is the possibility of delays
in project completion over and above the realistic assumptions which have
been incorporated in the existing implementation schedule (Chart 3-3). Major
delays which might occur would either be due to (i) problems in overall
Project coordination, (ii) delays in procurement approval required by the
Government and the entities, or (iii) insufficient or untimely availability of
equity financing/budget allocations to complete the Project.
6.32      Project Coordination and Management Problems are possible because
of: (i) the complexity of the Project, (ii) the relative inexperience of
local staff in undertaking a Project of this complexity or scope, and (iii)
the decentralized (entity) level at which the Project is to be managed. In
anticipation of these problems, a major part of the Bank's project preparation
and appraisal activity has been spent discussing organizational safeguards
against inadequate Project coordination and management. At the overall Project
level, the responsibilities, staffing and operating procedures of both the
Steering Committee (para. 4.04) and POKKORIAK (paras. 4.05-4.07) have been
reviewed with the Government in detail. At the entity level, the terms of
reference of the Project Management Consultant (PMC) for each component have
been carefully specified and reviewed, and, in addition to the PMC contracts,
both Owner's Engineer and operational assistance contracts between PTBA,
PJKA/ESS and PANN and respective consultant firms are included and are being
financed by the Bank. These contracts have been specified to ensure: (i)
effective provision of project management services, and (ii) strengthening of
the Indonesian entities through transfer of managerial know-how to Indonesian
counterpart staff in the Project management organization.



- 62 -
6.33      The potential for procurement approval delays has been a major source
of concern during Project preparation. Such delays will be minimized if
several steps agreed on during appraisal are carried out during Project imple-
mentation. These include: (i) POKKORLAK exercising its responsibility for
administering an "early warning system", and (ii) the Government acting on its
assurances that approvals will be given within a reasonable timeframe.
6.34      While the risks of delays aLnd the importance of continuous coordina-
tion between all parties involved should not be minimized, it must be recog-
nized that the mine/transport system has a certain amount of flexibility
to respond to delays of one or the other component without threatening the
overall functioning of the Project. First, if the Bukit Asam mine does not
reach the production build-up established now or its commissioning is delayed
by one to two years, Muara Tiga production will be able to take its place and
produce the quantities presently scheduled for the first two years of Bukit
Asam output. Second, in case the railway component is not completed as
now envisaged, quantities of up to 1.5 million tons could still be moved
on the railroad, thereby minimizing the direct financial effect on PTBA's
and the Project's overall viability. Third, as to the ship, emergency
arrangements can be made and facilities are provided under the Project to
ensure transfer of coal from the Tarahan terminal to Suralaya.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
7.01      The Project is an important step in the implementation of the
Government's policy objective to diversify Indonesia's mono-energy economy
through the development of coal and other indigenous oil substitutes for
domestic consumption wherever technically and economically feasible. The
benefits accruing from the development of the Bukit Asam mine and related
transport infrastructure are substantial and include: (i) increased poten-
tial foreign exchange earnings through oil substitution in thermal power
generation; (ii) institution building in the entities which will undertake
Indonesia's proposed accelerated coal exploration/exploitation program; and
(iii) increased employment opportunities in South Sumatra.
A. Economic Rate of Return
7.02      The incremental rate of return of the Project has been calculated
in real terms using the detailed assuimptions outlined in Annex 7. The cost
streams used for the financial analysis in the "with" and "without" cases have
been, in particular, adjusted to (i) exclude all taxes (import taxes, duties,
income taxes); and (ii) include all subsidies (e.g., on fuel, electricity).
No shadow pricing of labor or foreign exchange has been applied, in line with
the practice in other Indonesian projects. The provision of housing and
social infrastructure has been carried at full economic cost without quantify-
ing the resulting economic benefits.
7.03      As to the benefit stream, ithe price to be used for the economic
analysis is the opportunity cost of Lmporting alternative fuels, i.e., either
coal from Australia or Bunker C. Economic rates of return have been calculated
for both alternatives, i.e.



- 63 -
(a) the opportunity cost of importing equivalent coal in 1981
is US$44/ton fob Australia, plus short-term shipping and
unloading cost (fas) of US$22/ton through 1985 when permanent
coal receiving installations at Suralaya could be completed.
After 1985, the long-term shipping/unloading component would
amount to US$13/ton in 1981 terms. It has been assumed that
fob Australian coal prices will increase at 1.5% p.a. until
1985, 2% p.a. until 1995 and remain constant thereafter; the
shipping component is assumed to increase by 4.1% p.a. until
1990;
(b) the opportunity cost of importing Bunker C or using Indonesian
oil is about US$35/barrel fas Suralaya in 1981. In line with
the World Bank's Commodity Projections, a 1.2% p.a. real term
growth has been assumed for 1981/82 and 2.6% p.a. thereafter.
7.04      The incremental economic rate of return for the project is (a)
12.2% using coal from Australia as alternative fuel; and (b) 21% using Bunker
C as alternative fuel.
7.05      Sensitivity Tests.  In case international steam coal prices do not
increase in real terms during the entire life of the Project (a most unlikely
event), the incremental rate of return would fall to 10.4%. In case coal
prices increase by 1% p.a. only, this return would still be 11.6%. The "coal
based" incremental economic rate of return would still be 10% if the Project
were delayed by one year, operating and capital cost increased by 10% p.a.,
and international coal prices only increased by 1% p.a. in real terms until
1995.
7.06      Assuming a second 3.0 million tpy mine would come on stream, based
on the assumptions outlined in para. 6.25, the "coal based" incremental
economic rate of return would increase to about 16%.
B. Foreign Exchange Benefits
7.07      The Project provides significant foreign exchange benefits to
Indonesia. In most of Indonesia's present thermal power generation, oil is
used to fire the power plant. This oil is not Indonesian oil; rather, because
of Indonesian oil's relatively high quality vis-a-vis other oil available in
the South East Asian region, Indonesia exports its domestically-produced oil
and imports lower-quality Bunker C to be used in power generation. To the
extent that coal is used in lieu of oil, average annual incremental foreign
exchange benefits have been estimated at US$125 million in 1981 real terms.
C.   Institution Building
7.08      One of the major benefits of the Project is the institution building
it facilitates. As this Project is only a first step in a series of coal
and related infrastructure development activities which the Government hopes
to undertake, the experience gained during the preparation and implementation
of this Project will enhance the implementation of subsequent coal develop-
ment plans. Of particular significance is the transfer of technology and
managerial/financial strengthening, which will occur at the working level



- 64 -
of the entities undertaking the Project through the training programs and
operational assistance included in each of the Project components.
D.   Employment and Other Social Benefits
7.09      Employment.  The Project is expected to provide increased employment
opportunities in PTBA. Of the approximately 2,950 people who will be needed
to operate the mine, about 1,700 new employees will be recruited locally near
Tanjung Enim. It is expected that additional recruits from South Sumatra will
be hired at Tarahan as well.
7.10      Training.  The Project includes a major training component (para.
5.45) to prepare personnel for mine and railway supervision and system
maintenance activities. This program will run from FY1981 through the third
year of operations. In addition to tlhe Project benefits which this training
will provide, it is expected that the program will provide external benefits
through skilled labor leaving the Project upon completion of the training
program.
7.11      Housing and Other Social Benefits.  The townsite component of the
Project (paras. 5.12-5.14) will provide housing for about 1,585 families as
well as dormitories for 300 people. Water, Sewerage and electrical facilities
will be upgraded and new roads will be constructed. Under the Project, a new
hospital, school and recreational facilities will also be constructed and
maintained.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached:
(a)  With the Government:
(i) to review in detail the leasing arrangements for PT PANN.
A lease structure that ensured a yield of about 10% in
real terms over the life of the lease would be acceptable
to the Bank (para. 3.78);
(ii) to ensure proper staffing of POKKORLAK (para. 3.82);
(iii) to carry out its plan to ensure a firm and steady interim
power supply from PLN for mine operations (para. 3.99);
(iv) to take all necessary actions to acquire as and when
needed all land and land rights required for carrying
out the Project, and to inform the Bank in a timely
manner of such land acquisition (para. 3.100);
(v) to ensure timely and sufficient funds to cover the
expenditures required for the Project, including



- 65 -
(1)  the necessary yearly budget allocations for PJKA
and POKKORLAK;
(2)  equity contributions for PTBA and PANN to meet the
Project's requirements, and
(3)  the necessary local and foreign funds to complete
the Project and to cover any possible cost overruns
(para. 4.16);
(vi)  to set the price of PTBA coal delivered to Suralaya such that
it covers all production costs including overhead and adminis-
tration costs, handling costs, land and sea transportation
costs and insurance, and produces an annual return to PTBA on
revalued net assets acquired for the Project of not less than
13%, so long as such price would not be higher than the
long-term contract price for equivalent steam coal in the
world market plus transportation and handling costs to
Suralaya, or lower than 80% of such contract price (para.
5.19 and 6.06);
(vii) to ensure that a coal sales contract, satisfactory to
the Bank, for Bukit Asam coal delivered to Suralaya and the
mine mouth power plant, is signed by PTBA and PLN;
(viii) to provide the necessary funds for the Muara Tiga investment
(para. 6.19);
(ix)  to employ consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in
carrying out the proposed Exploration Program (para. 3.64).
(b)  With PTBA:
(i) to undertake an urban impact study with respect to the mining
community before finalizing the community and social infra-
structure layout (para. 3.33);
(ii)  to undertake an environmental impact study of the Tarahan and
Kertapati terminals (para. 3.59);
(iii) to prepare, before Project completion, guidelines satisfactory
to the Bank on water pollution controls and levels in the
mine site and port areas; to monitor such pollution and take
all necessary steps to ensure that the requirements of the
guidelines are followed; also before Project completion, to
prepare and furnish to the Bank for review a land reclamation
plan for the Bukit Asam mining area; and to carry out the
the land reclamation activities in accordance with such plan
(para. 3.60);
(iv) to adopt and operate a financial and management accounting
system satisfactory to the Bank by April 1, 1984, and to



- 66 -
furnish the Bank with annual financial statements audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.70);
(v) to employ the following consultants and experts, satisfactory
to the Bank: Project Management Consultants for implementa-
tion of the mine component (para. 3.83), a senior Technical
Advisor for PTBA-managed Project components (para. 3.86), an
Owner's Engineer for the terminals (para. 3.89), and a Project
Management Consultant for the mining community development
(para. 3.89);
(vi) to furnish to the Bank for its review and approval, at least
12 months before the operational acceptance of the first mining
subsystem, a draft contract to provide operational assistance
during the initial years of mine operation, and to have such a
contract effective prior to the operational acceptance of the
subsystem (para. 3.84);
(vii) to furnish to the Bank, by April 1, 1982 an action plan satis-
factory to the Bank for the provision of housing and infras-
sturcture for all personnel involved in the implementation of
the mine component (para. 3.87);
(viii) to establish an action plan for the gradual exploitation of the
Muara Tiga coal deposit and review progress under the plan
annually with the Government and the Bank (para. 3.96);
(ix) to conclude acquisition of all land required for the mining
site, the mining community site and the Kertapati rehabilitation
in a timely manner (para. 3.100);
(x) to enter into a coal transport contract with PJKA, satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 6.03);
(xi) from the Completion Date and thereafter (a) to maintain a
maximum debt:equity ratio of 60:40, (b) not to incur any debt,
other than for money borrowed for the Project, unless a debt
service coverage ratio (including the debt to be covered) of
not less than 1.3 is maintained, and (c) to maintain a minimum
current ratio of 1.3 (para. 6.20); and
(xii) until the Completion Date, not to undertake non-Project invest-
ments or incur new debt exceeding in the aggregate US$20 million
per year without prior review by the Bank (para. 6.20).
(c)  With PJKA:
(i) to promptly take action to ensure that coal transport is being
carried out in a timely and efficient manner (para. 3.4.3);



- 67 -
(ii) to introduce and operate an accounting system in ESS not later
than FY1983 (para. 3.74);
(iii) to furnish the Bank with annual financial statements audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para.
3.75);
(iv) to take all measures necessary to ensure efficient coal movements
and adequate financial/cost control for appropriate tariff
calculations (para. 6.21);
(v) to ensure that commencing in FY1984 ESS will maintain (1) ade-
quate inventories of materials and fuel and (2) cash balances
and short-term deposits of at least 16% of the prior year's
working expenses (para. 6.22); and
(vi) to set rail tariffs for coal transport in order to achieve an
annual return on revalued Project assets of 13% (para. 6.23).
8.02      The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i) execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Govern-
ment and PTBA and PT PANN, respectively (para. 4.14); and
(ii) signature by PTBA and PLN of a Letter of Intent, satis-
factory to the Bank, for the coal sales contract (para. 5.14).
8.03      Subject to the foregoing commitments and agreements, the Project
provides a sound basis for a Bank loan to the Government of Indonesia of
US$185 million for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace. Retro-
active financing of up to US$9 million is recommended.
Industrial Projects Department/
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
December, 1981



- 68 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 11
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
The Executing Agencies
A.   PT Bukit Asam--Mine, Townsite and Terminals
1.   Background and Ownership
1.        Through 1980, all coal mining activities in Indonesia were managed
by a state coal enterprise, PNTB, under the supervision of the Director
General of Mines of the Ministry of Mines and Energy. PNTB was created in
1968 through a merger of three autonomous mining companies formerly operated
by Dutch interests. Two mines are in operation at present, the Ombilin mine
in West Sumatra and the Bukit Asam mine, whose expansion is the object of the
Project. In addition to managing the two mines, PNTB initiated and supervised,
from its head office in Jakarta, the feasibility work to expand both mines, a
production-sharing agreement with Shell Mijnbouw 1/, and negotiations for
production-sharing contracts in Kalimantan with five foreign consortia.
2.        The existing open pit mine at Bukit Asam presently employs some
1,250 workers. Its steam coal production has been declining from 864,000 tons
in 1941, the maximum ever achieved, to 107,600 tons in 1980. In addition to
steam coal, anthracitic coal is produced from the Suban pit located within the
Bukit Asam concession. The table below shows 1976-80 coal production from the
Bukit Asam mine:
Bukit Asam Coal Production, 1976-80
('000 tons)
Year                     Steam Coal         Anthracite          Total
1976                       104.4               18.3             122.7
1977                       117.1               32.5             149.6
1978                       126.5               50.6             177.1
1979                       122.6               63.7             186.3
1980                       107.6               53.6             161.2
3.        PNTB has been characterized by low productivity and poor maintenance
of its physical assets, caused primarily by overstaffing and lack of demand.
As a result, PNTB has had high production costs, necessitating heavy subsidiza-
tion by the Indonesian Government. The Ombilin mine operation, which in 1980
produced 57% of PNTB steam coal but accounted for 65% of its operating losses,
is further plagued by expensive and complicated underground mining techniques.
4.        As the Government plans to accelerate coal development in Ombilin
and Kalimantan and PNTB has limited management staff, the Government decided
upon the Bank's recommendation to set up a separate Government enterprise to
manage the Bukit Asam concession and associated facilities. Consequently,
1/   A Dutch subsidiary of Shell Company.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 11
Perusahaan Tersero Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam, PTBA, was created by Presiden-
tial Decree on December 15, 1980. Under the Project, PTBA will own, implement
and operate the existing and expanded Bukit Asam mine and supporting facili-
ties, as well as the Kertapati and Tarahan terminals. PTBA will also be
responsible for undertaking exploration in the South Sumatra region under the
proposed Coal Exploration Project.
2.  Organization and Management
5.        Indonesian companies are organized with a Board of Supervisors and a
Management Board. The Direksi, the Management Board of PTBA, reports to a
Supervisory Board (Dewan Komisaris), chaired by the Minister of Finance. It
includes members from the Department of Finance, the Ministry of Mines and
Energy and the state planning agency, BAPPENAS, and the Company-s President
Director. The members of both Boards are appointed by the Minister of Finance
with the recommendation of the Minister of Mines and Energy. PTBA's offices,
while initially in Jakarta, will be located at Tanjung Enim close to the mine
within a year of the start of project implementation (mid-1982). To facili-
tate execution of PTBA Project subsystem components (mine, townsite, Kertapati
terminal, Tarahan terminal), a project management organization is being set up
within the Company; each subsystem will have a subsystem manager responsible
to an overall project manager reporting to the President Director. These
organizational relationships are summarized in the chart below.
INDONESIA
BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PERUSAHAAN TERSERO TAMBANG BATUBARA BUKIT ASAM (PTBA)
ORGANIZATION CHART
|Supemsrvitr
Eonlorat,on  M~~~~~.st.nt ~P'ojact MM.",g    P-j.ot M. .0,' M.aeOw ,. PoctMmr   .l.t
Ma,ket,.q                n~~~~~~~~~~i,.  Towneite  csigMn  Egn.  aea
Managment Managemen
Consul,.  Connnoltnt-Cnrco
industrial Pojet Dep,n-t/East A.i. and PaciMi Proc.  |Dte rtn t                        World Bank - 23071
J.ly 1981



*- 70 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 11
6.        The Government has appointed an experienced engineer as President
Director of PTBA. All other Directors Technical, Planning and Development,
Finance, Administration) have been associated with the Project since its
inception and should be in a position to manage the Project successfully with
the technical assistance to be provided under the Project.
3.   Present Facilities
7.        Mine.  The Bukit Asam coal mine is located at Tanjung Enim, South
Sumatra, approximately 160 km SW of the Port of Palembang. The mine property
to be developed lies west of Tanjung Enim and covers an area of about 3,000
hectares. A road and a railway link the mine area to Palembang and also to
the port of Panjang on the Sunda Strait 400 km south by rail. The present Air
Laya pit was opened in 1942 and has undergone several phases of mechanization.
Currently, steam coal from the pit is being mined by truck/shovel methods and
transported out of the pit on a conveyor belt system. Waste is removed by
means of truck/shovel or scrapers. At the adjacent Suban Pit, anthracite is
being mined mostly by quasi-manual methods.
8.        Existing heavy-duty equipment at the Bukit Asam mine includes:
six Cat 621B scrapers, seven dozers, one grader, one road roller, three 35-ton
Wabco trucks, three Cat 977 excavators, three shovels including one modern
hydraulic O&K machine, 300 half-ton coal cars, two 250-HP steam locomotives
for shunting and 13 mine railway locomotives. Also, five 100-HP electric
pumps and seven diesel pumps for mine drainage are operational. Existing mine
support facilities include: an equipment workshop; two 9.8-NW coal-fired
power stations; an auxiliary 1-MW diesel generator; a 6-kV overhead power
distribution line; and a coal washing plant currently used only as a screening
plant. There is a fairly old central workshop, responsible for ordering and
maintaining parts, which suffers badly from inadequate or over-complicated
procedures.
9.       3The Air Laya aid Suban pit operations have planned capacities of
575,000 m and 175,000 m of overburden removal, respectively, per year.
It is estimated that of the average monthly scraper fleet availability of 543
working hours, around 21% is lost due to rain, 17% due to non-utilization, and
19% due to maintenance and repairs.
10.       The company also owns and operates associated infrastructure facil-
ities for its 1,250 full-time employees. Some facilities are outmoded; others
require repair or replacement. Of the 1,300 company houses, approximately 950
are occupied by active PTBA employees and their families, the rest by retired
personnel. Supporting infrastructure includes water, light and power, and
roadways; and community facilities include: a 200-bed hospital, one elementary
and two junior-high schools, a mosque, a church, sports facilities, a theatre
and a community hall. 1/
1/   The existing townsite, Tanjung Enim, has been the subject of a report
undertaken under Phase I of the Project entitled, "Planning of Workers'
Settlement for Bukit Asam Coal Mining Plant", by the Center of Planning
Studies, Institute of Technology, Bandung.



- /1 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 11
11.       Kertapati Coal Terminal.  In the late 1950s and early 1960s, Indonesia
developed a modern coal handling system with German aid primarily designed to
supply steam coal for locomotive use throughout Java and Sumatra based on
moving coal from Bukit Asam by rail to a new terminal at Kertapati, the
railhead, on the Musi River upstream from Palembang. This system had a design
capacity of 1.0 million tpy; however, because of the subsequent steady decline
in demand for coal (due to phasing out of steam locomotives) and inflation,
declining revenues and increasing costs resulted in poor maintenance and the
terminal and its associated infrastructure fell into a state of advanced
disrepair.
12.       The existing terminal occupies an area of 7.5 ha with 450 m frontage
on the south bank of the Musi River. In recent years the terminal has handled
varying amounts of coal (from 126,000 tons in 1978 to 80,000 tons in 1979)
with shipments being made by barges, nearly all of which are unloaded into
ocean-going ships anchored below the Ampera bridge that crosses the Musi River
between the terminal and the harbor. This is an expensive means of loading
coal, but the lift section of the bridge is inoperable and has prevented
the passage of ships for many years. While the mechanism might be repaired,
there is some doubt that the structure-s alignment and stability would permit
the central span to be lifted. As the bridge is the main axis for crossing
the Musi River in east Sumatra, it is very heavily travelled; and great
opposition would be registered to any suggestion that it be made operable,
both because of traffic disruption and the danger that any accident in the
passage of loaded ships downstream could damage or collapse it.
4.   Past Financial Performance
13.       The Bukit Asam operation has been treated as a distinct cost center
of PNTB.  Its financial performance over the 1975-80 period is summarized
below:



- 72 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 11
PNTB--Historic Financial Performance of Bukit Asam Mine, 1975-80
(US$ million) a/
Calendar Year                     1975      1976      1977      1978     1979       1980
Coal Production (tons)
Steam Coal                     123,217  104,431  117,069  126,485  122,645   107,581
Anthracite                       7,076   18,328   32,538   50,485   63,420    53,579
Coal Sales (tons)
Steam Coal                      67,567   55,143   65,486   57,352   44,954    85,733
Anthracite                       6,462   17,055   24,261   36,290   62,309    78,735
Average Contract Price
(US$/ton) b/
Steam Coal                        n.a.      n.a.    22.43    22.00    17.25    16.94
Anthracite                        n.a.      n.a.    34.91    33.50    35.04    35.35
Sales Revenues                      1.13      1.66      2.15      2.76     3.35      4.73
Cost of Goods Sold                2.18      2.69      3.06      3.33     3.17      5.24
Gross Margin                       (1.05)   (1.03)   (0.91)   (0.57)   (0.18)   (0.51)
Operating Income                    (1.15)   (1.24)   (1.29)   (1.00)   (0.91)   (0.21)
Other Income                      0.13      0.16      0.20      0.20     0.15      0.10
Net Profit                         (1.02)   (1.08)   (1.09)   (0.80)   (0.76)    0.11
Net Cash Generation                 (0.97)   (0.84)   (0.71)   (0.37)    0.36         -
Cost of Goods Sold/ton           29.45    37.26    34.10    35.56    29.55    31.85
a/   Converted from actual rupiah data using Rp 415 = US$1 from FY75-78 and for
FY79, Rp 502 = US$1 (April to October at Rp 415 and November to March at
Rp 625 per US$1). Totals may not add due to rounding.
b/   FOB Kertapati.  Actual realized prices were lower than average contracted
prices.
c/   Not applicable.  All debt, per se is incurred by PNTB's Head Office and
is not charged to the operating units. Even so, the ensuing debt:equity
ratio does not reflect the degree to which PNTB is subsidized by the
Government.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 6 of 11
14.       The Bukit Asam mine has been operating at a loss over the years.
Net revenues before depreciation were negative until 1978; in 1979 the small
surplus was insignificant compared to the allowance for depreciation. Past
operating losses have been covered by government subsidies. Periodic additions
of machinery and equipment were financed from various sources listed under
long-term debt on the PNTB balance sheet; these included the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Mines, Pertamina, Bank Dagang Negara, Bank Indonesia and
Pelita funds. The share of the Bukit Asam Unit in these liabilities, net of
accumulated operating losses, was about US$10 million at the end of 1980.
15.       Steam coal has been sold well below international prices; and only
the favorable development of anthracite sales appears to have sustained
PNTB's operations on a cash basis in recent years. A production capacity (and
demand) on a scale of at least 2.0 million tpy, supported by reasonable coal
prices, is required to turn the Bukit Asam mine into a self-sufficient opera-
tion, independent of Government subsidies. The Project is designed to achieve
this objective for the mine, both by achieving economies of scale and through
contractual arrangements for prices, reflecting the true economic price of
coal. Without the Project, no significant improvement is seen possible for
the Bukit Asam operation. Its presently stagnant steam coal market, in the
absence of a power generation plant or existing industrial consumers that are
capable of burning coal, has caused a threefold increase in inventories, which
now account for 50% of current assets. Though rising, the volume of anthracite
sales, which are profitable on a unit basis, is too small to compensate for
the steam coal losses.
B. The Indonesian State Railway
1.   Organization
16.       Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api/Eksplotasi Sumatera Selatan (PJKA/ESS),
the Indonesian State Railway, is a Government agency under the Ministry of
Communications. Responsibility for the day-to-day management of PJKA rests
with the Chief Director, who reports to the Minister through the Director
General of Land Transport. At its headquarters in Bandung, West Java, the
Chief Director is supported by five department directors (personnel, finance,
traffic and commerce, fixed installation, mechanical engineering and signalling
and telecommunications) and supervises six Regions (eksplotasi)--three in Java
and three in Sumatra--and 15 subdivisions of technical staff (inspeksi). The
organizational chart of PJKA and the Explotasi South Sumatra (ESS) under which
the Bukit Asam project falls, is given below:



74 -
ANNEX 3-1
INDONESIA                                              7    f  11
BUKIT ASAM MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJECT                            Page   o
PERUSAHAAN JAWATAN KERETA API (PJKA)
Organization Chart
Chitf
Director
Planning                                              Trfaicnh  i g Auit
Office           Office           Oficic
l~ ~ ~~~         ~eea            Lea         St_e &.                      Pul
Personnel   |     Finance           Trffic           Fixed. Inst      Mechan. Engi
Department  |    Depevmenr         Deartment          OsptDrment        Deparment
I West Sav   g  Central Java    |   EastJvaot Surnater                West Sumater|
Rgion tETB)      Reion iETHI      Region (ETRS Region IESU)             Region i8)1      REgitn  SS)
Jakarta         Seining           Surabay.                                           Regional Director
Divrision         Division             Division         Divsio        Telecom. Division
Operating  Fixed |nst.              Signalling &
lnspekss 2Inspeksis          lInspeks.s        Telecom. Inps.
| Stations        Seksis    l  l   Drepots             Seksa.
Industrial Projects Department/East Asia end
Pacific Projects Department
March 1981                                                                                                         World Bank - 22673
*Eksplotasi Sumatera Salatan
17.              Decision making is largely concentrated at the headquarters, and the
regional directors, who rank below the department directors in Bandung, have
rather limited authority. This is accentuated by the fact that the eksplotasi
and inspeksi chiefs usually seek guidance from the functional departments at
the headquarters rather than from the regional director.



- 75 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 8 of 11
2.   Management, Staff, Training
18.       The top management of PJKA is generally adequate; however, the
overall management function suffers from: (i) shortage of experienced staff
in the middle and lower ranges (particularly in the regions); (ii) lack of an
adequate management information system; and (iii) an inadequate accounting
system.
19.       The number of active staff employed by PJKA has decreased from
63,500 in 1966 to about 47,000 in 1979. For ESS, the corresponding numbers
were about 4,500 and 3,500. Besides the active staff, PJKA has about 10,000
"non-active" employees on its payroll who have been discharged for political
reasons but are being paid about 80% of full pay. Of this "non-active"
staff, about 600 are in ESS.
20.       Existing training facilities include (i) a staff college in Bandung
for management training; (ii) training schools in Bandung and Jogjakarta,
Central Java, for general railway training; and (iii) limited facilities in
the workshops in Jogjakarta and Mangarrai (near Jakarta) for mechanical
training. A comprehensive training program for permanent way staff has been
carried out in Java under the First Railway Project 1/, and a program for
workshop apprentice training is underway. Training facilities and training
are in principle adequate for existing operations. A comprehensive training
program is required for new and upgraded skills needed to carry out the
Project.
3.   ESS Railway Facilities, Traffic and Operations
21.       The ESS network totals 639 km of lines and is shaped like a modified
"T" (Map). In the north, an east-west line runs some 304 km from Kertapati in
the east to Lubuklinggau in the west. Connecting this line at Perabumulih, 78
km west of Kertapati, a second line runs south for 322 km to Panjang. From
Muara Enim, 74 km west of Perabumulih, there is a 13-km branch line to the
coal mining community of Tanjung Enim, where the Bukit Asam coal mine is
situated.  Most of the lines (about 346 km) are laid with 42.5 kg/m rails of
good quality, while remaining sections (about 178 km) have 37.0 kg/m rails of
mixed quality or 25.0 kg/m (about 115 km) of poor quality.  All main-line
tracks have wooden sleepers and crushed stone ballasts, both of generally
poor quality. There are about 160 bridges (total length about 3,000 m), of
which about 130 bridges (2,450 m) are cn the Tanjung Enim-Panjang section.
Track maintenance is inadequate for existing traffic, and there are a large
number of speed restrictions due to poor track conditions.
22.       The motive power and rolling stock fleet consists of 35 steam
locomotives, 21 diesel locomotives, 127 passenger cars and about 1,090 freight
cars (of which about 100 are privately owned). Major overhaul and repair of
steam locomotives, passenger cars and freight cars are carried out in the
1/   First Railway Project, Loan 1005-IND, signed June 14, 1974--US$48.0
million.



- 76 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 9 of 11
Lahat workshop while all diesel locomotives are repaired and maintained in the
Tanjung Karang running shed, where passenger and freight cars are also serviced.
There are also running sheds in Kertapati servicing locomotives, passenger
cars and freight cars, and in Tanjung Enim servicing steam locomotive and
freight cars. All maintenance facilities are of low quality and, in parti-
cular, the Tanjung Karang shop is inadequate for its purposes.
23.       Passenger traffic has increased rapidly (from about 200 million
passenger-km in 1975 to about 430 million in 1980), while freight traffic
(except for a drop in 1976) has remained stable at about 130 million net tkm
until 1979 and then increasing to about 160 million tkm in 1980.  Traffic
forecasts for the period FY81-96 are given below.
83 sAum  CAS!1 I9S0/8.1995/96
783 Slesteitt 6 tw>                       Au9tultsttt ee~
Pas&   -K   __g!  o  7nK  (MllSc)                       Freai?t 'Not ^o.-n-  (MLIIl'on)
Slesal lest  lv11M)    Coi to   Otner  latura)G  OUcer  Total  (XL12ea)    Cal t   Othsr    latur"Aj  Other  Tz:
arches  sCool  7raneerts   CndtLtzet  'r!!fht  teehee   Cosl   Trsn2o=rte  Codltes   ?,el
257111  (cItteal)     -40 
1580/61        X518   -   33     49      180   112      471     *    33    27     253     2::
1531/32       - 34    -   45    S22      191   34       495    230   3    12       I40    K
1521S          S97   330   6    122      207   705      519    791   56   12       15    T112
1393/11        767   751  43    11       224   1120     345    1O2   63   1S2            13713
191/IS         135  1026  70    112      24    452      s      1026  70  I22       177   1381
1515/16        aS   1026  78    112      243   lS       10     1031  78   112      in    139'
1951/87        "8   1026  U2    215      287   1110     531   I02    83   215      135    51:
IM1         U2S   18s  n3   215         9    1716      767   1s    a    n35      217   1t.
2599/54       1585  1821  03            573  18 17 a    S5    Mn.  m e    2us     25     U759
MCS consultants suggested a continuing steep increase in passenger traffic and
also substantial increases in freight traffic. In the appraisal, a more
conservative increase has been assumed for freight traffic other than coal and
for commodities to and from the Baturaja cement plant. The difference between
the two forecasts is summarized in the following table.
ESS--Projected Annual Traffic Growth (%)
Freight other than Coal
Passengers           and Baturaja Transports
Years Ending March 31   MCS      Appraisal        MCS        Appraisal
1981-82               13.6        5.0           8.5           8.1
1982-83               10.0        5.0           8.3           4.0
1983-84               10.0        5.0           8.2           4.0
1984-85               10.0        5.0           8.9           4.0
1985-86                6.0        5.0           8.6           4.0
1986-87                6.0        5.0           8.3           4.0
1987-88                6.0        5.0           8.0           4.0



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 10 of 11
24.       ESS operational performance can be summarized as follows:  (i)
overall efficiency, measured in traffic units per employee, is very low;
however substantial improvements have occurred since 1976; (ii) while passenger
train loading (1980 average was about 330 passengers) is reasonably good,
freight train loading is very poor (average about 120 net tons); (iii) the
availability of rolling stock is as follows: for diesel locomotives it has
dropped from about 90% in 1975-78 to about 76% in 1980, for passenger cars it
has remained low at 50-60% and for freight cars it has declined from 93% in
1974 to 39% in 1980; and (iv) the utilization of diesel line locomotives,
measured in annual distance covered per available unit, has declined from about
190,000 km in 1975 to 150,000 km in 1980. For freight cars and passenger cars
the utilization has improved during the last three years.
4.   ESS Past Financial Performance, Accounting and Audit
25.       The profit and loss statements for fiscal years 1976-79 are sum-
marized below:
ESS Financial Performance, FY1976-79
(Rupiah millions)
Year Ended March 31,              1976       1977      1978       1979
Operating Revenue                2,658      2,883     3,368      4,688
Less: Working Expenses           2,595      3,230     3,632      4,387
Depreciation                448        456        514        813
Subtotal                         3,043     3,686      4,146      5,200
Operating Surplus (Deficit)       (385)      (803)      (778)     (512)
Ratios:  Working                    98        112        108        94
Operating                114        128        123        111
26.       Despite an 86% increase in passenger traffic (passenger-km)
during the 1976-79 period, ESS's financial performance was consistently
weak with only limited operating cash surpluses in FY1976 and FY1979 and
substantial operating deficits. In fact, the deficit portrayed above is
understated in that insufficient funds have been spent on yearly maintenance
requirements. The Phase I consultants, MCS, estimate that to achieve adequate
levels of maintenance, present maintenance expenditures should be doubled.
Further, depreciation was estimated from a reconstructed historical asset
base. Estimates of depreciation based on revalued assets are more than four
times the depreciation values depicted above. Thus, with proper maintenance
expenditures and the recording of depreciation computed from a revalued asset
base, the operating finances of ESS's ongoing activities would be subject to
significantly higher cash and operating deficits.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 11 of 11
27.       ESS's disappointing financial experience in these years can be
largely explained by the Government's failure to increase tariffs sufficiently
tb offset increases in operating expenses. During the 1976-79 period, freight
and passenger tariffs increased an average of only 30%, while working expenses
increased about 70% due primarily to inflation. Working expenses are dominated
by staff costs which have risen by more than 200% in the 1976-79 period as a
result of the Government policy of permitting annual wage increases designed
to bring civil service salaries closer to private sector levels. This trend
has been continuing in the current fiscal year with wage increases of about 50%
only partially balanced by freight and passenger tariff increases of about 17%.
As a result, ESS's financial position in 1981 is expected to weaken further.
28.       Presently, PJKA's accounting system is centralized with the result
that separate cash flow and balance sheet data for ESS and the other eksplo-
tasis are not available. This and other deficiencies in PJKA's accounting
system were noted during the appraisal of the First Railway Project.
Accordingly, arrangements were made under that project to engage consultants
to improve the railway's financial accounting. The consultants, (S. Parman &
Co.--Indonesia, associated with Coopers & Lybrand) devised a completely new
accounting system which has been approved by the Government and PJKA. The new
accounting system provides for separate accounts and financial statements in
each of the eksplotasis. To facilitate the introduction of the accounting
system to ESS, modifications to the system were recently developed to permit
the separation of coal and non-coal costing data. The consultants are proceed-
ing with the implementation of the accounting system for ESS. Live operations
of the new system are expected to commence in April 1982. Under the present
arrangement, the implementation work covering the FY1980 period was financed
by PJKA. The Project includes financing for the final stage of implementation,
to be carried out by consultants in accordance with terms of reference accept-
able to the Bank.
Industrial Projects Department/
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
December 1981



- 79 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA--BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
THE MUARA TIGA COAL MINE
1. General
1.1       It has been proposed that easily accessible outcrops of the Muara
Tiga Coal deposit should be mined with simple open pit methods in order to
make up for possible production shortfalls of the Bukit Asam mine. The follow-
ing is a short description of the deposit, the envisaged mining plan and
transportation modes and estimates of related operating and capital costs.
2. Geology
2.1       The Muara Tiga deposit is located immediately west of the antici-
pated Bukit Asam Mining Area boundary and the stratigraphical sequence of the
deposit is relatively similar to that of Bukit Asam. It is easy to correlate
the coal seams between the two areas, except for the southern part of the
Muara Tiga deposit where the two B-coalseams converge to form one seam.
2.2       Drilling of parts of the Muara Tiga deposit has taken place
and a report by MTDC and PNTB in 1980 indicates total coal resources to be
69 million tons with about 14 million tons in the proven category. Consi-
dering the geological conditions, angle and depths of the coalseams, over-
burden thickness, distance to the envisaged coal transfer station, drainage
conditions and suitable haulage road location, PTBA has decided to mine coal
outcrops in the northern and central part. Based on 17 boreholes in these
areas, the reserves and overburden quantities to be removed have been cal-
culated and are shown in table below:
Muara Tiga--Proposed Mining Production
Overburden        Stripping
Coal     & interburden         ratio
(tons)    (cubic meter)  (cubic meter/ton)
North Area (A and B seams)         3,431,000      5,337,000            1.6
Central Area (C seam)                634,000      2,560,000            4.0
Total                         4,065,000      7,897,000            1.9
2.3       Coal quality of A and B seams are similar to the quality of A and
B seams in the Bukit Asam area with an average calorific value of 5500
kcal/kg. C-seam quality is less known, but analysis so far completed shows
calorific values in the range of 5,500-7,500 kcal/kg. An additional 8 bore-
holes will be drilled by the end of 1981 to firm up the coal quality data.
Drilling results combined with planned trenching will also increase the
accuracy of overburden/interburden quantity estimates.



- 80 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 5
3.1       Planned production is as follows:
Muara Tiga--Production Plan
(000 tons)
Fiscal Year              -Coal            Overburden
1982                       200                 500
1983                       400               1,000
1984                       600               1,500
1985                       750               2,000
1986                       750               2,000
1987                       750               2,000
The overburden quantities 1982 include prestripping, bench preparation and
removal of weathered surface coal which cannot be sold.
3.2       The mine development entails construction of a 3,000-meter long
main haulage road and a water diversion channel, including drainage ditches
to protect the proposed mining area from flooding during heavy rains. The
12 meterwide main haulage road will connect the mining area with the train
loading station in the current PJKA coal yard. A service shop and a small
site office will be built.
3.3       Mining will start in the North (A-B seam) area which will be mined
with a method similar to conventional strip mining. The central area will be
mined with standard open pit benching. Coal will be loaded by track- and
wheel-loaders into 20-ton off-highway articulated trucks and transported out
of the mine to a stockyard for reloading into 7-ton trucks which will haul the
coal to the train laading station. As soon as the Bukit Asam coal loading
system is operational in 1984, Suralaya coal will be transported to that
system-s distribution point and handled in the same way as the Bukit Asam
coal. Coal for other customers will continue to be handled through the
existing PTBA yard.
3.4       Overburden material will be dumped in selected locations which
would not interfere with possible future mining on a larger scale. It is
planned that overburden removal by a contractor will begin in March/April
1982 and coal production will start in June of the same year. The actual
mining of coal will be managed by PTBA with new equipment while overburden
removal, as mentioned above, as well as the transport from the mine to the
train loading station will be done by contractors. In the latter case, PTBA
will provide the contractor with trucks and loaders and thus the investment
for these are carried by PTBA.
3.5       During full production, 750,000 tons of coal annually, the main
equipment employed will be:



- 81 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 5
Muara Tiga--Equipment Requirements
at Full Production of 750,000 Tpy
Equipment                  Number of Units
20-ton trucks                        5
Wheel loaders                        7
Track loader                         1
Dozers                               5
Graders                              2
7-ton trucks                       20
Backhoe excavator                    1
4.   Operating Costs
4.1       Mine operating cost estimates are based on past experience in the
Air Laya pit with similar equipment and the following assumptions:
(i)  Manpower:                   200,000 tpy      160 employees
750,000 tpy     250 employees
(ii)  Working hours:              Dry Season:    7 days work with two
8-hour shifts per day
Wet Season:    6-day week with two
5-hour shifts per day
(iii)  Working day per year:       Coal mining:           250 days
Overburden removal: 210 days
(iv)  Equipment hours per year:  Trucks :    2,500 hours
Loaders:    3,000 hours
Dozers :    3,000 hours
4.2       Estimated mine operating costs for the Muara Tiga pit are sum-
marized in table below:



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 5
Muara Tiga
Mine Operating Costs
(US$ '000 1981 terms)
Fiscal Year                     1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987
Labor                            414        452       564      648       648     648
Equipment Operation            1,184      1,949    2,661    3,326    3,326   3,326
Contractor Overburden/Removal 2,500       5,000   10,000   10,000   10,000  10,000
Administration/General
Services                    1,050      1,050    1,050    1,050    1,050   1,050
Total                 5,148     8,451   14,275   15,024   15,024  15,024
Annual Coal Production
('000 tons)                   200        400      600       750      750      750
Operating Cost $ per ton
cost (F.O.R.)                 25.7       21.1     23.8      20.0     20.0    20.0
10% contingencies are included.  High costs per ton in 1982 include mine
prestripping and bench preparation.  In 1984 mining of the Central area
with high stripping ratio (cubic meter of overburden per ton coal) starts.
5.   Capital Costs
5.1       Total capital costs are estimated to be US$15.5 million spread over
the first 4 years of the 7-year project. Estimates as shown below include
10% contingencies.
Capital Cost Estimates
(U$$ -000 1981 terms)
Mining Equipment                         4,230
Transport Equipment                      1,670
Haul Road Construction                     800
Drainage                                   140
Mine Services                            1,965
Coal Transfer Station                    1,595
Road extension/Bridge Improvement          260
Miscellaneous                              990
Total                             11,650
Import Duties                            3,575
Grand Total                       15,225
6.   Development Schedule
6.1       The development schedule is very tight and calls for immediate
start-up of the following activities:



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 5
(i) Haul road construction;
(ii) Drainage/water diversion;
(iii) Tendering for overburden removal; and
(iv) Tendering for mine, transport and service equipment
6.2      Overburden removal will start in March/April 1982 and coal production
will commence in June 1982. The production build-up to 750,000 tons annually
will only take place if that quantity of coal is required to cover any coal
deficit from shortfalls in Bukit Asam coal production. Current implementation
schedules for the Bukit Asam project as well as the Suralaya Power plant
construction certainly imply a coal deficit and it is at present assumed that
Muara Tiga will have to be developed urgently and have a capacity of 750.000
tons per year by 1985. Close monitoring of the progress of the two projects
is necessary in order to determine more clearly the amount of the possible
coal deficit and subsequent appropriate production build-up of the Muara
Tiga mine.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1981



ANNEX 3-3
-84-
IMEBMIA
9Mgl ASAM COAL NININ(, DYU=IMI AMO SNUIIS nw=
1nar2hTnaL cMT To P3CT NA11M  of muILm" caUT
rj E
L 1I
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
Pacific Projctsl  Depatmetofl^5et
December 1981>tzI                                                             A/ CPCS  tCPCS    |
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                               17 xr.st A . 
track  Aerka   -   AsSistant  Assistant     AssiattIlt~~         ~~~~~~~~S Advfte Adi isor.i   Advisor.t
I                _            L                   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CC  CCNS
ndstia   Prjet   DeatetEs   AsaIn
Pacifc  Pro ets  Departmentt
December      e 198|1lok 



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
P.T. Pengembangan Armanda Niaga Nasional (PT-PANN)--Past Financial Results a/
Income Statements 1978-80
(Rupiah Million)
1978        1979        1980 b/
Income from Operations
Leases                                     837.0     1,225.1    2,527.2
Installment Sales                           82.2         94.3      227.2
Commitment Fee                               -           55.6       88.8
Subtotal                              919.2     1,375.0    2,843.3
Cost of Operations
Ship Maintenance                            87.6         86.9      174.4
Depreciation                               419.9        644.0    1,392.5
General/Administrative                     258.1        218.2      276.4
Bad Debts                                  161.5         65.0       74.7
Subtotal                              927.2     1,014.1    1,918.0
Net Operating Income                           ( 8.0)        360.9       925.3
Non-Operational Income
Penalties on late payments                 122.6        196.4      162.9
Exchange rate difference                   201.5         36.6       15.6
Ship deliveries                            196.0        166.9      132.9
Other                                       36.6        103.0      119.9
Subtotal                              556.7       502.9       431.3
Other Costs
Bank interest                              435.7        757.5    1,016.4
Other                                       95.1         75.2       13.4
Subtotal                              530.8       832.7    1,029.8
Profit before Taxes                              17.9         31.0       326.8
Taxes                                             5.6          6.8        71.8
Profit after taxes                               12.3         24.2       255.0
a/   Totals may not add due to rounding.
b/   Unaudited.



- 86 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 2
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
P.T. Pengembangan Armanda Niaga Nasional (PT-PANN)--Past Financial Results a/
Balance Sheet, per December 1978-80
TRuipiah Million)
1978        1979        1980 b/
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash & Bank Deposits                       862.6        921.5    1,819.1
Receivables                                784.8        946.8    1,562.5
Other Current Assets                       397.2        562.6    1,362.9
Subtotal                            2,044.6     2,430.9    4,744.5
Long-Term Assets:
Installments Receivable                  1,446.1      2,026.6    4,809.0
Fixed Assets:
Ships under lease                        8,316.0    13,148.3   19,745.5
Ships under construction                 2,486.3    18,801.0        986.1
Other fixed assets                          76.2         85.6       102.0
(Accumulated depreciation)                (875.8)   (1,512.4)  (2,917.7)
Subtotal                           10,002.7    13,522.5   17,915.9
Other Assets                                     40.1          -          13.7
TOTAL ASSETS                                 13,533.5    17,980.0   27,483.1
LIABILITIES
Short-Term Debt                          1,881.3      1,515.6    1,833.0
Long-Term Debt
IBRD                                  1,327.6      3,852.5    8,510.0
Other                                 3,342.0      2,900.0    2,399.3
Subtotal                            4,579.6     6,752.5   10,909.3
CAPITAL                                       7,019.7      9,634.6   14,306.4
RETAINED EARNINGS                                 53.0        77.2       434.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                   13,533.5    17,980.0   27,483.1
a/   Totals may not add due to rounding.
bI   Unaudited.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1981



- 87 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 6
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
Detailed Capital Cost Estimates (1981 Base Cost Estimates)
---- Rupiah billion ---- ---- US$ Million ----
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
MINE SYSTEM
Land and Improvement               31.5      3.6    35.1      50.4      5.8    56.2
Buildings, Foundations             12.7      1.6    14.3      20.3      2.5    22.8
Main Mining Equipment               2.2   104.1   106.3        3.5   166.5   170.0
Mining Support Equipment            2.3    24.9    27.2        3.7    39.9    43.6
General Electrical Equipment        0.6    12.2    12.8        0.9    19.5    20.4
Insurance during construction       0.4      1.3      1.7      0.7      2.1      2.8
Subtotal
49.7   147.7   197.4       79.5   236.3   315.8
Engineering/Project Management:
-  Consultant Services           10.1    23.0    33.1       16.1    36.8    52.9
-  Owners' Engineer               -        1.6     1.6       -        2.6     2.6
Subtotal                    10.1    24.6    34.7       16.1    39.4    55.5
Training                            2.8      1.4      4.2      4.4      2.2      6.6
Operational Assistance              3.0    10.2    13.2        4.8    16.4    21.2
Subtotal
5.8    11.6    17.4        9.2    18.6    27.8
Preoperating and Start-up Costs:
-  PTBA Project Management        3.9      -        3.9      6.2       -       6.2
-  Physical Operations           15.8      8.9    24.7      25.3    14.3    39.6
Subtotal                    19.7     8.9    28.6       31.5    14.3    45.8
BASE COST                          85.2   192.9   278.1    136.3   308.6   444.9
Physical contingencies        12.1      9.5    21.6      19.3    15.2    34.5
Price Escalation Allowance  28.0    40.5    68.6         44.9    64.9   109.8
TOTAL MINE SYSTEM                 125.3   242.9   368.3    200.5   388.7   589.2



- 88 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 6
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
Detailed Capital Cost Estimates (1981 Base Cost Estimates)
Rupiah billion ---- ---- US$ Million ----
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
MINE TOWNSITE
Streets and Roads                   :3.7     1.3      4.9      5.9      2.0      7.9
Water Supply                         1.1     0.6      1.8       1.8     1.0      2.8
Sewerage System                     0.6      0.3      0.9       1.0     0.5      1.5
Electric Power Distribution          1.1     0.9      2.1       1.8     1.5      3.3
New Community Facilities            3.4      3.1      6.5       5.4     5.0    10.4
New Housing                        11.6      0.7    12.3       18.5     1.1    19.6
Insurance during Construction       0.1      0.2      0.2      0.1      0.3      0.4
Subtotal                    21.6      7.1 a/ 28.7      34.5    11.4 a/ 45.9
Engineering/Project Management:
-  Contracted Services            2.6       -       2.6      4.2       -       4.2
-  Owner's Engineer               0.1      0.3      0.4      0.1      0.5      0.6
Subtotal                     2.7     0.3      3.0       4.3      0.5     4.8
Training                             -       0.1      0.1        -      0.1      0.1
Preoperating and Start-up Costs:
-  PTBA Project Management        0.4       -       0.4      0.7       -       0.7
-  Physical Operations            0.2       -       0.2      0.3       -       0.3
0.6      -       0.6       1.0      -       1.0
BASE COST                          24.9      7.5    32.4       39.8    12.0    51.8
Physical contingencies         3.1      0.1     3.2       5.0      0.1      5.1
Price Escalation Allowance  19.6        0.1    19.7      31.4      0.1    31.5
TOTAL MINE TOWNSITE                47.6      7.7    53.3       76.2    12.2    88.4
a/   Indirect foreign exchange costs.



- 89 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 6
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
Detailed Capital Cost Estimates (1981 Base Cost Estimates)
---- Rupiah billion ---- ---- US$ Million
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
ICERTAPATI TERMINAL
Equipment and Overhaul              0.6      1.5     2.1       1.0     2.4      3.4
Civil Works                         0.1       -      0.1       0.1      -       0.1
Insurance During Construction       0.0     0.0      0.0       0.01    0.01    0.02
Subtotal                    0.7      1.5      2.2      1.11    2.41    3.52
Engineering/Project Management
-  Consultant Services             -      0.3       -         -      0.5      0.5
Training                             -        -       -         -      0.02    0.02
-  PTBA Project Management         -        -       -        0.02     -       0.02
BASE COST                           0.7      1.8     2.5       1.13    2.93    4.06
Physical contingencies         0.1     0.3      0.4      0.2      0.4      0.6
Price Escalation Allowance   0.1       0.2      0.3      0.2      0.3      0.5
TOTAL KERTAPATI TERMINAL            0.9      2.3     3.2       1.5     3.6      5.1



- 90 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 4 of 6
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
Detailed Capital Cost Eistimates (1981 Base Cost Estimates)
---- Rupiah billion ---- ---- US$ Million ----
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
TARAHAN TERMINAL
Equipment                           0.5    10.7    11.2       0.8    17.1    17.9
Civil Works and Erection            B.3     7.1    15.4      13.3    11.4    24.7
Insurance During Construction       0.1     0.1      0.2      0.1      0.2     0.3
Subtotal                    8.9    17.9    26.8       14.2    28.7    42.9
Engineering/Project Management:
-  Turnkey Contractor Services  :1.1      2.9      4.0      1.8      6.1     7.9
-  Owner-s Engineer               0.4     1.0      1.4      0.6      1.6     2.2
Subtotal                    :1.5     3.9     5.4       2.4     7.7    10.1
Training                            0.7     0.7      1.3      1.0      1.0     2.0
Operational Assistance               -      1.0      1.0       -       1.6     1.6
Subtotal                    0.1      1.7     2.3       1.0     2.6      3.6
Preoperating and Start-up Costs:
-  PTBA Project Management        0.6      -       0.6      1.0       -      1.0
-  Physical Operations            0.2     0.2      0.4      0.4      0.2     0.6
Subtotal                    0.9      0.2     1.0       1.4     0.2      1.6
BASE COST                          11.9    23.6    35.4      19.0    39.2    58.2
Physical contingencies        3.0      2.5     5.5       4.8     4.1      8.9
Price Escalation Allowance   5.6       4.0     9.7       9.0     7.5    16.5
TOTAL TARAHAN TERMINAL             2C).5    30.1    50.6     32.8    50.8    83.6



- 91 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 5 of 6
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
Detailed Capital Cost Estimates (1981 Base Cost Estimates) a/
---- Rupiah billion ---- ---- US$ Million ----
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
RAILWAY/COMMUNICATIONS
Equipment:
-  Line Locomotives                      -      9.0      9.0        -     14.5    14.5
-  Coal Wagons and Vans                 0.1    10.0    10.0        0.1    16.0    16.1
-  Misc. or rail equipment               -      4.6      4.6        -      7.4      7.4
-  Upgrade TABA cars                    0.2     2.8      3.0       0.3     4.5      4.8
-  Communications System                6.5    10.3    16.9       10.5    16.5    27.0
Subtotal                       6.8    36.7    43.5       10.9    58.9    69.8
Civil Works and Erection:
-  Upgrade Existing rail lines         12.8    24.5    37.3       20.5    39.2    59.7
-  Rail extensions and relocations   3.4        1.6      5.0       5.4     2.6      8.0
-  Rehabilitate signals                 2.5     1.1      3.6       4.0     1.7      5.7
-  Upgrade Maintenance Shops            0.8     1.3      2.2       1.4     2.0      3.4
-  Temporary Facilites                  1.1     2.0      3.1       1.7     3.2      4.9
Insurance during Construction             0.2     0.5      0.7       0.3     0.8      1.1
Subtotal                      27.6    67.7    95.4       44.2   108.4   152.6
Engineering/Project Management:
-  Consultant Services                  5.4    10.7    16.1        8.7    17.1    25.8
Training                                  4.7     3.9      8.6       7.5      6.2    13.7
Operational Assistance                    0.9     2.5      3.4       1.5      4.0     5.5
Subtotal                       5.6      6.4    12.0       9.0    10.2    19.2
Preoperating and Start-up Costs:
-  Accounting system Implem.            0.4     0.6      1.1       0.7      1.0     1.7
-  ESS (Block B) Project Manag.         8.8      -       8.8      14.1       -     14.1
-  Physical Operations                  1.8     0.1      1.8       2.8     0.1      2.9
Subtotal                      11.0      0.7    11.7      17.6      1.1    18.7
BASE COST                                49.7    85.5   135.2       79.5   136.8   216.3
Physical Contingencies              9.2      8.2    17.4       14.8    13.1    27.9
Price Escalation Allowance         18.6    14.2    32.8       29.7    22.8    52.5
TOTAL RAILWAY/COMMUNICATIONS             77.5   107.9   185.4    124.0   172.7   296.7
a/   Cost estimates are MCS Milestone 6 estimates escalated to 1981 prices,
with the following revisions:
-   added cost of implementing new accounting system
-   reduction in cost of communications system for amount already
shown under Mining System
-   transfer of $14.1 million of indirect foreign cost from "Local"
to "foreign"
-   added cost of ESS Project Management of Block B



- 92 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 6 of 6
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
Detailed Capital Cost Estimates (1981 Base Cost Estimates)
---- Rupiah billion ---- ---- US$ Million ----
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
SHIP
Vessel                               -       12.3   12.3        -      19.7    19.7
Service vehicles                     -        0.1    0.1        -       0.1      0.1
Civil works and erection            0.4       0.1    0.4       0.6      0.1      0.7
Insurance during Construction       0.0       0.0    0.0       0.03    0.01    0.04
Subtotal                 0.4      12.4   12.8        0.63   19.91   20.54
Engineering/Project Management       --       1.1    1.1         -      1.8      1.8
Training                            0.2       0.4    0.6        0.3     0.7      1.0
Preoperating and Start up           0.3       0.1    0.4        0.5     0.1      0.6
BASE COST                           0,.9     14.0   14.9        1.4    22.5    23.9
Physical Contingencies            0.1       2.5    2.6       0.1      4.0      4.1
Price Escalation Allowance        0.4       3.3    3.7       0.6      5.3      5.9
TOTAL SHIP                           1.3     19.9   21.2        2.1    31.8    33.9
Industrial Projects Department/
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
December 1981



- 93 -
ANNEX 4-2
INDONESIA--BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT FROlJECT
PTBA--CONSOLIDATED WORKING (:APITAL SCHEDULE
(RlIPIAH MILLIONS--CURRENT TERMS)
1981  1982   1983   1984   1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
CURRENr ASSETS
CASH4                          316   115    726    387    550        684   29661   2.028   2.228   2,451   2.696   2,973   3,193   3,326
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE            468   580    787  4,008  5,284 10,321  14,567  125405  17,097  18,178  20,171  21,283  23,293  24,576
INVENTORIES                    428   164    308  1,447  2,163   :3.905  16,529  21,927  23,455  2S,49t  28,343   10,586  32,318  32,672
SUBTOTAL CURRENT ASSETS  1,212   859  1,521  5,842  7,997  14,910  32,757  39,360  42,780  46,120  51,210  54,842  58,804  60.574
CURRENr LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE               199   135    179  2,701  3,646   5,685   9,293   9,986   9,102  21,621  12,395  13,409  24,667  15,829
SUBTOTAL CURRENT  IAB.      199   135    179  2,701  3,646   5,685   9,293   9,986   9,102  11,621  12,395  13,409  14,667  25,829
WO9 lNG CAPITAL             1,013   724  1,342  3,141  4,151   9,225  23,464  29,374  33,678  34,499  38,815  41,433  44,137  44 745
CHmNGE IN WORKING CAPITAL  1,013  (289)   618  1,799  1,210   4,874  14,239   S,910   4,304             821   4,316   2,618   2,704       608
INDUSTRIAt PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
REPORT PREPAREDI12/03/81
INDONESIA--PUKII ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJlE.CT
PJKA/ESS--CONSOL.IDATED WORKING CAPIrAL SCHEDULE (1)
(RUPIAH MILLION--CURRENT TERMS)
1981  1982  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
CURRENT ASSETS
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE             -      -     -2,806  2t631  5,010  7,390  7,974  8,685   9,456  10,146  11.074  12,254  13,315
INVENTORIES                     -      _     -   246    287    419  75356    604    656          713      774      841     914      993
SUBTOTAL CURRENT ASSETS       -     -      -  3,052  2,918  5,429  7,946  8,578  9,341  10,169  10,920  11,915  13,168  14,308
CURREN1 LIABTlLiTIFS
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                -      -     -    171    201    304    411    447    487         530      576      627      683     744
_--     ---    ---   -- -    --   -   --   -   -- -  -______ __ _                         ____  -- --  -- --  ------_       _      _ _ ____ ____ _...   _  
SUBTOTAL CURRENT LIAB.        -     -      -    171    201    304    411    447    487         530      576      627      683     744
WORKING CAPITAL                 -      -     -  2,881  2,717  5,125  7,535  8,131  8,854   9,639  10,344  11,2B8  12,485  13,564
CHANGE IN WORKfNG, CAPITAL      -      -        2,881   (164) 2,408  2,410    S96    723         785      705      944   1,197   1,079
(1) CALCULArED ON A NON-CASH BASIS,
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
REFORT PREFARED: 12/07/81



- 94 -
ANNEX 4-3
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
(US$ million)
Calendar                   Quarterly Disbursement             Cumulative Disbursement
Year/Quarter                   Amount   % Total                 Amount    % Total
1982    IV                      30.5       16.5                   30.5       16.5
1983     I                       6.9        3.7                   37.4       20.2
II                      8.7        4.7                   46.1       24.9
III                      9.1        4.9                   55.2       29.8
IV                     12.5        6.8                   67.7       36.6
1984     I                      12.3        6.7                   80.0       43.3
II                      9.7        5.2                   89.7       48.5
III                     11.2        6.1                  100.9       54.6
IV                     21.7       11.7                  122.6       66.3
1985     I                      34.5       18.6                  157.1       84.9
II                      7.7        4.2                  164.8       89.1
III                      5.6        3.0                  170.4       92.1
IV                      5.6        3.0                  176.0       95.1
1986     I                       4.1        2.2                  180.1       97.3
II                      3.1        1.7                  183.2       99.0
III                      0.7        0.4                  183.9       99.4
IV                      0.6        0.3                  184.5       99.7
1987     I                       0.3        0.2                  184.8       99.9
II                      0.1        0.1                  184.9      100.0
III                      0.1         -                   185.0      100.0
185.0      100.0
Industrial Projects Department
December 1981



- 95 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 8
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
International Market for Steam Coal and Anthracite
1.        This annex presents a brief description of the world coal market
situation--first, reserves, production and trade; and second, international
pricing trends and coal contracts. This description is intended to provide
general background information for the discussion of the Indonesian context
and, specially, the market for Bukit Asam coal, given in Chapter V. More
detailed information is available in the various reports and documents listed
in the "Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File"--(Section
G, page vi).
A. World Coal Reserves, Production and Trade
1.   Reserves
2.        World coal resources and reserves are geographically widely dis-
tributed with over 80 countries reporting coal occurrences. Technically
and economically recoverable reserves are estimated at 636 billion tons of
coal equivalent (tce), about 230 years of present coal consumption, and known
coal resources are estimated to be nearly 16 times larger than reserves.
Little data on world anthracite resources are available as most countries
do not distinguish anthracite data from that on other types of coal; however,
anthracite resources have been estimated at about 20 billion tce.
World Coal Resources and Reserves by Region
Technically and Economic-
Geological Resources         ally Recoverable Reserves
(billion tce)   (%)         (billion tce)       (%)
Industrialized Countries a/      3,434      33.9           325             51.0
Developing Countries             6,461      63.8           246             38.7
CPEs b/                            230       2.3            65             10.3
Total                      10,125    100.0            636            100.0
Source: Coal Development Potential and Prospects in Developing Countries.
IBRD Report No. 2630, October 1979.
a/   Includes South Africa.
b/   Includes People's Republic of China.



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 8
2.   Production
3.        In 1950, coal was the world's most important source of energy,
accounting for 59% of primary energy production, while oil provided only 30%.
By 1973, coal's share of world energy supplies had fallen to 29%, whereas
oil's share had increased to 51%. While nearly 60% of the oil produced was
traded--mostly from the Middle East to Europe, the United States and Japan--
only 8% of world coal production was traded, of which three-quarters was
coking coal used for steel production.
4.        However, the sharp oil price increases of 1973 and 1979 have renewed
the interest in steam coal, since it is plentiful worldwide, the technology
of mining, moving and using it is well established, and it can be widely used
in electricity generation and in many industrial applications, notably
cement and chemical industries.  Price competitiveness with oil and security
of supply are expected to stimulate coal production, which is projected to
increase by 180% from 1960 output to 6,300 million tce by 2000 as shown in the
table below:
Past and Projected World Steam Coal Production, 1960-2000
(million tce)
Annual Average Growth (%)
1960    1970    1980   1990    2000   1960/70   1970/80   1980/90   1990/2000
2,327  2,387   3,100  4,700   6,300       0.3       2.7        4.3        3.0
Source: Bank staff estimate.
5.        The rate of growth of future world coal production, especially in
the period 1990-2000 could be higher, depending on the growth of future
world energy requirements and coal's share of energy consumption. The recent
report of a coal study group 1/, for example, projected a possible world coal
production of 6,780 million tce in 2000--which would imply an annual growth
rate of 3.7% from 1990-2000.
6.        World reserves are sufficient to support these projected future
production levels, but long lead times are required to prove reserves and open
new mines. Depending on the nature of the deposit, one to three years may be
required for exploration and pre-investment work, and an additional two to
four years to develop and open the mine. Furthermore, transportation infra-
structure required to link the mineEs with coal markets--e.g., railroads,
pipelines and ports--may take even longer to develop than the mines. Thus,
the actual levels of production achieved in the mid- to late 1990s will depend
on investment decisions made in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
1/   Coal-Bridge to the Future, Report of the World Coal Study, 1980.



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 8
3.   Consumption/Demand
7.        In 1960, electrical utilities, industry and the household/commercial
sector were all important markets for coal in industrialized countries.
However, by 1976, over 65% of OECD coal consumption was for power generation,
and the combined share of industry, commercial/household had decreased to
only 18%, a result of substitution by oil and gas. The remaining 17% was
metallurgical coal used for steel making. For the future, electricity pro-
duction is expected to be the dominant market for coal, although as much as
12% of coal could be used for feedstock for synthetic fuels production, i.e.,
coal gasification and liquefaction, if there is a strong shift to coal.
The OECD pattern of coal consumption can be considered representative for
world consumption.
Past and Projected OECD Consumption of Coal by Sector a/
1960                 1976                    2000
Steam Coal          million tce    %      million tce    %       million tce       %
Electricity            326         37         609         65     1,332-1,854    66-61
generation
Industry               164         18          97        10        227-  394    11-13
Synthetic Fuels         27          3           7          1        77-  357      4-12
Domestic, Commercial,
Transportation       223         25          71         7         39-   56      2- 2
Subtotal Steam Coal 740          83         784        83      1,675-2,661    83-88
Metallurgical Coal    153          17         164         17       333-  371    17-12
Total             893       100         948        100      2,008-3,032       100
Source:  Estimates for 1960 and 1976, Steam Coal Prospects to 2000, IEA,
1978; estimates for 2000, Coal--Bridge to the Future, Report of
the World Coal Study, 1980.
a/   Excludes energy uses and losses estimated at 66 million tce in 1960 and
63 million tce in 1976.
4.   Steam Coal Trade
8.        Coal is a bulky, dirty commodity that is expensive to move over
long distances, relative to oil. Historically, most coal was used for
industrial purposes or power generation close to the minesite so that trans-
portation requirements were minimal. In 1970, total coal trade was 200 mil-
lion tce, consisting of about 180 million tce of coking coal and anthracite,
and only 20 million tce of steam coal. But now, coal's renewed price competi-
tiveness with oil is expected to stimulate increased use and imports of steam
coal by energy-importing countries in Europe and the Far East as follows:



- 98 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
Historical and Projected World Steam Coal Trade, 1970-2000
(million tce)
Exports                 1970       1980      1990    2000
Australia                   2         8        40     110
Canada                     -          1        10      25
South Africa               -         21        50      80
USA                         2         3        44     120
Other Market Economies    1           -        22      36
Net Imports from CPEs    15          20        42      60
Total              20         53      208      431
Imports
Europe                    16         42       123     236
Japan                      -          2        34      75
Other Asia                  1         3        39     103
Other                      3          6        12      17
Total              20         53      208      431
Source:  Steam Coal Prospects to 2000, IEA, 1978, and Bank staff estimates.
9.        The major exporting countr:Les--Australia, Canada, South Africa and
the US--have considerable competitive export potential if a higher demand
emerges. Recent studies by various groups 1/ indicate a possible range of
steam coal trade of 156-287 million tce in 1990 and 273-657 million tce in
2000. The higher end of the range would be largely the result of substan-
tially higher imports by six countries--France, FR Germany, Italy, Japan,
Korea and Taiwan, and would be supplied by increased exports from all of the
four major exporters, but especially the US as follows:
1/   Including Coal Resources, World Energy Conference (1977); Steam Coal to
the Year 2000, International Energy Agency (1978); Coal--Bridge to the
Future, World Coal Study (1980):; and The Growth of Steam Coal Trade
1980-90, H. P. Dewey (1980).



- 99 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
Possible Range of Steam Coal Imports and Exports in 1990 and 2000
(million tce)
Exporters            1990       2000     Importers               1990     2000
Australia           36- 50    75-115    France                  14- 51   26-100
Canada               4- 15    10- 50    Germany, FR             18- 28   10- 72
South Africa        45- 60    55-100    Italy                   11- 30   16- 45
USA                 30- 67    65-252    Other Europe            52- 58   84-116
Other (exc. CPE)   15- 35    25- 60
Net CPE             26- 60    43- 80        Sub-Total Europe   95-167  136-333
Total           156-287   273-657    Japan                  24- 57   53-121
Korea                 20- 30   36- 88
Taiwan                 8- 12   12- 65
Other Asia             2-  5    4- 26
Sub-Total Asia
(excl. Japan)      30- 47   52-179
Other                  7- 16   14- 20
Total                156-287  255-653
Source: Bank staff estimate.
5.   Anthracite Trade
10.       The principal use of anthracite is as an energy source either in
the form of briquets for hand-fired furnaces in space heating or for elec-
tric power generation. Anthracite can also be used in a blend with coking
coal for coke manufacture. Other commercial and industrial uses include
cement and lime burning, substitute for coke in foundries, manufacture of
bricks and tiles and other applications where clean, continuous heat is
essential, i.e., tin and nickel processing in Indonesia and Malaysia.
11.       Total world production of anthracite has grown moderately during
the last 20 years, reaching approximately 200 million tons in 1977 or about
6% of total world coal production. Production trends in market economy
countries have shown a decrease by about 33% between 1957 and 1977 and this
decrease, predominantly in Western Europe and the US, resulted from a declining
demand attributable to anthracite's relative disadvantages vis-a-vis other
fuels for heating. The patterns of development in anthracite production in
centrally planned economies (CPEs) has been quite different, showing an
increase by about 80% during the 1957-77 period (3% per annum). Even though
little information is available, it seems that energy policies in the CPEs,
coupled with the availability of reserves and a trend to develop local re-
sources, have made increased anthracite production possible, especially in the



- 100 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 8
Asian countries. The US and the People's Republic of China (PRC) have large
deposits, as does the USSR. The Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the
Republic of Korea and Vietnam are also producers with significant reserves.
B.   International Pricing of Steam Coal
1.   Price Trends
12.       Steam Coal.  Coal prices roughly paralleled oil price trends until
1973/74, when oil prices quadrupled while coal prices only doubled. From
1974-80, fob thermal coal prices as measured in real terms remained fairly
constant, whereas crude oil prices increased by a factor of four during the
same period. Following the 1979/80 oil price hikes, thermal coal import
requirements increased sharply; as a result, market conditions tightened very
much and 1980 fob prices increased by 20% in real terms, as summarized below:
Comparison of FOB Steam Coal and OPEC Oil Prices, 1973-81
(US$ per tce)
FOB Australian Steam Coal Prices               OPEC Oil Prices
Current Terms Constant 1980 Terms Current Terms Constant 1980 Terms
1973         12-15               29-36                14                 33
1979         24-30               27-34                96                108
1980         30-36               30-36               134                134
1981         40-50               37-46               173                159
Source:  Coal Week, Bank staff estimates.
13.       On a delivered basis, steam coal prices are now US$60-65 per tce,
cif Europe, and US$50-55 per tce, cif Japan, compared with oil at US$170-180
per tce. Depending on coal quality, transportation requirements and environ-
mental protection measures, steam coal for new power generating or industrial
plants may be up to 40% cheaper than oil on a delivered basis. 1/
14.       Anthracite.  Prices for anthracite are dependent primarily on the
quality and sizing of the coal, shipping costs, and energy pricing policies in
the countries concerned, as well as the economic availability of alternative
energy sources. In the international anthracite market, prices declined
over the period 1950 to 1974 as anthracite was substituted by more convenient
and cheaper energy sources. However, this trend has now reversed, and Japanese
anthracite importers have experienced price increases of 45% during 1976-80.
The quoted average 1981 fob price for PRC contracts is US$64.90.
15.       Historically, Indonesian anthracite prices have failed to keep pace
with the overall anthracite market. The table below shows average contracted
prices for Bukit Asam anthracite exported to the South East Asia markets
during 1976-80.
1/   Mid 1981 export prices for long-term coal contracts have reached
A $45-50/ton f.o.b. for 6700 kcal/kg coal with spot prices reaching as
much as A $54-56/ton.



- 101 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8
Indonesia--Average Anthracite Export Price FOB Kertapati
(US$/ton)
Year Ended March 31              Price
1977                     34.91
1978                     33.50
1979                     35.04
1980                     35.35
Not only are these prices substantially lower than those received by Vietnam
and the PRC, for example, but PNTB rarely obtained its contracted price, due
to unreliable supply and quality variances. In early 1981, however, steps
have been taken to put Bukit Asam coal on a more competitive basis. PTBA has
probed the anthracite market to determine what price it will bear and has
successfully increased anthracite prices in some contracts to US$65/ton fob
Kertapati, which is in line with prices being received elsewhere in the
market.
16.       Though coal mining costs are not likely to increase much in real
terms in the forthcoming decade, the rising costs of competitive fuels and of
new infrastructure to increase coal supply are likely to push coal prices up
in real terms. The extent of these increases over the coming two decades will
depend primarily on coals demand/supply balance. Following the 20% real
price increase for steam coal in 1980, major new mines--which were previously
uneconomic to develop--are expected to come on stream in the mid-1980s which,
by increasing coal supply, should temper real price increases in the 1990s as
compared to the 1980s. Various market sources forecast an annual real price
increase of fob steam coal prices as follows:
Steam Coal--Real Term International Price Increase Projections, 1980-95
Index (1980=100)            Average Annual Growth (%)
Source                 1985   1990   1995           1980/85   1985/90   1990/95
Major Oil Company
Study                 126    159    175              4.8        4.8       1.9
Consultant Study
European Market      111    137    158              2.0        4.3       2.9
Far East Market      106    124    135              1.2        3.2       1.7
Bank Staff                                          1.0-2.0   1.0-3.0    0-4.0
17.       The supply of steam coal on the Far East market is expected to grow,
particularly considering Australia's current and future role as a large low-
cost producer. However, most of Australia-s projected production to 1985 has
already been committed and little will be available for new customers. Thus,
for the purpose of projections, it is assumed that coal prices will increase
by 1.5% annually in real terms until 1985. The rate between 1985 and 1995 cou'
be anywhere from 0% to 4%, depending on the actual supply/demand situation;



- 102 -
ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 8
a real increase of 2% annually in real terms between 1985 and 1995, with a
constant price thereafter, has been assumed. The latter appears justified,
given the vast resources which can be developed profitably at the projected
prices.
18.       Future price projections  Eor anthracite are difficult to make as
the scarcity of information about anthracite prevents any detailed analysis.
It is assumed that due to anthracite's increased competitiveness as an attrac-
tive (smokeless, intense heat) energy source, and because of its advantage
over steam coal in regard to transporting costs per unit of delivered energy,
a preference for higher quality--anthracite--coal will develop in the future.
For the purpose of projections, it has been assumed that anthracite prices
should increase faster than those for steam coal, and an annual growth of
3% until 1995--equivalent to the expected annual price increase for oil--has
been assumed.
2.   Coal Contracts
19.       International steam coal trade has involved relatively small coal
quantities in the past; therefore, no steam coal contract pattern has been
established.
20.       Present contracts for steam coal as well as anthracite are short-
term, generally ensuring deliveries from three to five years and still small
annual volumes ranging from 250-500 thousand tpy (exceptionally as high as
1.0 million tons) and include cost escalation and renegotiation provisions.
It is expected, however, that future thermal coal contracts will have to
provide for larger quantities over longer periods--e.g., 1-3 million tpy for
10-15 years-if greater reliance on coal is to be developed in international
markets.
21.       Australian coal exporters are in the process of introducing into
steam coal contracts a feature similar to what has been successfully used in
the iron ore and coking coal trade; i.e., although these contracts are long
term, prices are being negotiated annually. New long-term steam coal con-
tracts include a pricing period of two-to-three years. Base prices include
production costs, actual transport costs which are passed on in full to the
consumer, and escalation rates. Every 2 years, all price components are to
be renegotiated in light of the latest supply/demand conditions. Due to the
uncertainty surrounding future steam coal supply/demand conditions, it is
expected that most new contracts will adopt this "Australian formula."
Industrial Projects Department
December 1981



- 103 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
PTBA -- Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.        The financial forecast of PTBA's future operations is based on
the costs and revenues associated with the operations of the mine (at the
Air Laya pit in 1981, the Muara Tiga mine during 1982-87 and the Bukit
Asam mine starting 1984), the townsite and the terminals ultimately to
support a coal production capacity of 3.0 million tpy of steam coal and
115,000 tpy of anthracite and a labor force of 2,950. In addition, PTBA
financial projections also include transportation charges by PJKA and Bahtera/
PANN which are passed on to PTBA's coal customers. The major assumptions
underlying PTBA's financial projections are discussed below.
2.        Escalation Indices.   Financial projections for PTBA as given in
Annexes 6-2 through 6-5 are made in current terms. The following escalation
assumptions have been made in the preparation of these projections:
Escalation Indices
Local           Foreign
Year            Costs            Costs
1981             18%              9.0%
1982             14%               8.5%
1983             10%              7.5%
1984             10%              7.5%
1985             10%              7.5%
1986 onwards    10%               6.0%
Operating Costs
3.       Mine production costs for the new and existing steam coal operations
at the Air Laya and Muara Tiga pits and for anthracite operations at the Suban
pit are based on the coal production schedule given in Annex 6-2. These
costs are expected to develop as shown in the table below:



- 104 -
INDONESIA--BUIIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PTBA--MINING PRODUCTION COSTS                                      ANNEX  6-1
(RUPIAH MILLIONS--CURRENT TERMS)                                    Page   2  of  5
1981   1992   1983    1984    1985    1986    1997    1988    1999    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
STEAM COAL
OUKIT ASAM--SURALAYA
LABTRIALS-SUP P                          IS105                 264      613   9,238  10,161  11,157  12,273  13,500  14,892  15,822  17,080
MATERIALs S SUPPLIES                   -       -      2E3      589   1,888  26,066  30,061  32,069   34,952  3,s979  41915  43,912  46,543
FUEL              -       -      -      ~~~      ~~~      ~~~     ~~84  92  59  742  816  897  987   1,085   1,18S   1,263   1,365
SUBTOTAL                     -            -  -      420     95 9    ,4 60   36,046  41,038  44,123  48,212  53,564  57,995  61,037  64,988
BUKIT ASAM--NON-SURALAYA
LABOR                           -      -       -        -        -        -        -   1,9e9   2,184   2,402   2,642   2,915   3,097   3,343
MATERIALS I SUPPLIES            -      -       -        -        -        -        -   5,983   6,277   6,841   7,630   8,204   8S603   9,110
FUEL                            -       -      -        -        -        -        -     160      176      193      212      233      247     267
SUBTOTAL                     -       -       -         -       -       -        -   8,032   8,637   9,436  10,484  11,352  11,947  12,720
MUARA TIGA PIT
LABOR                           -    298    379       520      657      722      223        -       -        -        -        -        -        -
EOUIPMENT OPERATION             -    816  1,459   2,147   2,85   .$3,096         924        -        -       -        -        -        -        -
CONTRACT 0/B REMOVAL            -  2,757  5,984  12P909  13,S76  14,894   4,443             -       -        -        -        -        -        -
SUBTOTAL                      -  3,871  7,822  15,576  17,419  28,712   5,590            -        -        -        -        -        -       -
AIR LAYA PIT
LABOR                      2,114       -       -        *        -        -        -        -       -             -        -        -       -
MATERIALS I SUPFLY           448       -       -        -        -        - B-                      -        -        -        -                 -
FUEL                         339       -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -            -        -            -        -
SUBTOTAL                 2,901       -       -        -        -        -       -        -                                   - -      -
SUBTOTAL STEAM COAL  2,901  3,871  7,822  15,996  18,313  21,272  41,636  49,070  52,760  57,648  64,048  69,347  72,9B4  77,708
ANTHRACITE
SUBAN PIT'
LABOR                       ,        528    167    644  839    913   1,004   1,104    1,215   1,335   1,469   1,615   1,780   1,198   2,154
MATERIALS 1 SUPPLIES         109    134    212        293      326      361     397      437      480      528      581      640      704      774
FUEL                           30     57      71       69      135       86       69       76      84       92      102      112      123      136
--       -  - -  -  - - -   - - -   --  - -  -  - -   --  - -  - - -    --   --   - -- - --   - -- ---   -- -- - - -
SUBTOTAL ANTHRACITE    667    758    927   1,201   1,374   1,451    1,570   1,728   1,899   2,089   2,298   2,532   2,785   3,064
SUBTOTAL MINING COSTS        3,568  4,629  8,749  17,197  19,737  22,723  43,206  10,790  54,659  59,737  66,346  71,879  75,769  8o,772
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS lDEPARTMENT
REPORT PREPARED:10/16/S1
4.                Coal handling costs and revenues are shown in the table below for
the upgraded Kertapati terminal and the new Tarahan terminal.
INtONESIA--BUNIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECTED REVENUES AND EXFENSES--KERTAPATI TERMINAL
(RUPIAH MILLIONS--CURRENT TERMS)
i981 .19B2  1983  1984   1981   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
COAL HANDLED (000 TONS)   106   116   146   170    170    170    170    170    180    210    210    210    210    210
COAL HANDLING REVENUE       419   527   773   991  1,090  1,199  1,319  1,450  1,688  2,166  2,382  2,625  2,88E  3,176
DIRECT OPERATING COSTS
LABOR                      96   134   183   214    238    262    288    317    348   ,383    421    464    110    561
MATERIALS L SUFPLIES    112   163   229   282    342    405    440    532    540    588    655    715    779    18s
FUEL                        3      4      S     7      I   .   9       10      11     12      13      15      16     18      19
SUBTOTAL                211   301   417   503    590    676    738    860    900    984  1,091  1,195  1,307    769
OPERATING REVENUE         208   226   356   488    100    523    581    590    788  1,182  1,291  1,430  1,581  2,407
DEPRECIATION
EXISTING ASSETS           189   189   189   189    189    189          99     99      99      99      99      99     99      99
NEW--NON-SURALAYA           -      -   179   179    179    179    179    208    208    208    208    208    262    262
SUBTOTAL                189   189   368   368    368    368    278    307    307    307    307    307    361    361
OPERATING INCOHE           19    37   112)  120    132    155    303    283    481    875    984  1,123  1,220  2,046
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
REPORT PREPARED: 10/16/81



- 105 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 3 of 5
INDONgSIA--BUNIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSFORT PROJECT
PROJECTED REVENUES AND EXPENSES--TARANAN TERMINAL
(RUPIAH MILLIONS--CURRENT TERMS)
1981  1982  1983   1984   1985   1986    1987    19S8    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
COAL HANDLED (000 TONS)      -      -     -    785    910  1,S25   2,445   2,445   2,445   2,445   2,445   2,445   2,445   2P445
COAL HANDLING REVENUE        -      -     -  3,532  4,065  8,764  11,397  11,595  11,802  i2,031  12,277  12,556  12,852  13,175
DIRECT OPERATING COSTS
LABOR                      -      -     -    187  - 205    562       494     543      597      657     722      796     876      963
MATERIALS I SUPPLIES       -      -     -    392    426  1,302   1,622   1,752   1,S92   2,047   2,212   2,399   2,596   2,811
FUEL                           -        -       9     21     56      112      131     144      158     174      192     211      232
SUBTOTAL                 -      -     -    588    652  1,920   2,228   2,426   2,633   2,862   3,108   3,387   3,683   4t006
OPERATING REVENUE          -      -     -  2,944  3,413  6,844   9,169   9,169   9,169   9,169   9,169   9,169   9,169   9t169
DEPRECIATION
NEW--SURALAYA              -      -     -      -  2,232  2,283   2,283   2,283   2,347   2,374   2,374   2,374   2,594   2,594
SUBTOTAL                 -      -     -      -  2,232  2,283   2,283   2,283   2,347   2,374   2,374   23           2,594   29594
OPERATING INCOME           -      -     -  2,944  1,181  4,561   6,886   6,B86   6,822   6,795   6,795   6.795   6,575   6,575
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
REPORT PREPARED:10/Et/81
5.               Administrative costs are based on the transfer of much of the
administrative function of other PTBA representative office in Jakarta to
the minesite at Tanjung Enim by the end of the first year of Project imple-
mentation, i.e., by mid-FY1983. A breakdown of PTBA's projected adminis-
trative costs is given in the table below:
INDONESIA--BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT FROJECT
PTBA--ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
(RUPIAH MILLION--CURRENT TERMS)
1981   1982   1983   1984   1905   1956   1987   1988   1989   1990    1991    1992    1993   1994
TANJUN6 ENIM OFFICE
LA8DR                          -       -    394    753  1,417  1,579  1,737  1,911  2,103  2,313   2,545   2,004   3,084  2,551
MATERIALS/SUPPLIES             -       -    189    306    847  1,609  1,732  1,907  2,148  2,231   2,454   2,704   2,974  1-272
SUPTDOTAL                    -       -    583  1,0S9  2,264  3,188  3,469  3,898  4,251  4,544   4,999  55O8   6,058  3,S43
MINE TOWNSIIE
LABOR                           -            124    272    299.   329    362    399    438    482        530      584     64      70
MATERIALS/SUPPLIES              -      -    164    725    798    878    965  1,062  1,167  1,284   1,412   1,556   1,712  1,883
FUEL                            -      -      27    121    133    147    161    177    195    215    2.36         260     286    315
-- _  _ _- - - - - _- - - - - _- - - - - _- - - - - _- - - - - _- - - - - _- - - - -   -- - - -   - - _ _ _   - - _ _ _   - - _ _ _ -   - _ _ _ - -   _ _ _ - -
SUBTOTAL                      -      -    315  1,118  1,230  1,354  1,488  1,638  1,000  1,981   2,178   2,400   2,640  2,905
OTHER ADMIN. COSTS (1)
LABOF.                        514    800    427    462    774    861    947  1,042  1,146  1,261   1,387   1,528   1,680  1.46g
MATERIALS/SUPFLIES            582    407    205    520    802  1,188  1,289  1,455  1,583  1,682   1,050   2,039   2,242  1,574
SUPTOTAL                 1,096  1,207    632    982  1,576  2,049  2,236  2,497  2,729  2,943   3,237   3,567   3,922  3,043
TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS  1S096  1,207  1,530  3,159  5,070  6,591  7,193  8,033  8,780  9,468  10,414  11,475  12,620  9,791
(1) INCLUDES.ALL PTBA ADMIN. COSTS THRU MID CY19I3,
WHEREUPON THE JAKARTA OFFICE WILL SE MOVED TO
TANJUNG ENIM. THEREAFTER, INCLUDIES EXISTING MINE
OPERATIONS AND TERMINALS.
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEFARTMENT
REPORT PREPARED: 10/16/B1



- 106 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 4 of 5
6.        Working Capital Requirements.  PTBA's working capital require-
ments are based on forecast current aLssets and liabilities as follows:
(a) Cash: six weeks' salaries and wages.
(b) Inventories: three months" fuel and six months- materials
supplies.
(c)  Accounts Receivable:  one month's revenues from coal sales.
(d) Accounts Payable: three months' fuel and materials and
supplies, and two months' transportation charges.
Projections of working capital requirements for PTBA's consolidated operations
are given in Annex 4-2.
7.       Revenues.  PTBA revenues from coal sales are based on the following
price assumptions:
(a) for steam coal sales during 1981-83, a f.o.b. coal price for
Tanjung Enim of US$32/ton in 1981 terms has been assumed.
This price will increase during 1982/83 in line with
inflationary increases.
(b) for steam coal sales to PLN for Suralaya, a 1981 base price
price for imported Australian coal of Bukit Asam quality,
plus an estimated US$13/ton shipment and handling cost from
Australia. The base price of US$44 is assumed to increase in
real terms by 1.5% per year through FY 1985, by 2% from FY
1986-94, and to remain constant thereafter. The combined
base and transport price is then assumed to increase with
inflation. The sales price of Bukit Asam coal to Suralaya
is set at the delivered price of imported coal in FY1984 and
FY1985, the first years of coal production for Suralaya. A
pricing period of two years has been assumed in line with
international practice, i.e., the contract would be renego-
tiated to reflect the market price of imported coal every
two years. In the intermediate year, the sale price is
assumed to be adjusted for nominal annual increases in mine
operating costs and actual transport tariff increases.
(c) for steam coal sales to all other Bukit Asam customers
starting FY84 a US$44 fob price in 1981 terms has been
assumed. This corresponds to PLN's price taking into
account transport and handling differential. Real term
increase are equivalent to those assumed for PLN.



- 107 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 5 of 5
(d) for anthracite sales a 1981 base price of US$60/ton f.o.r.
Tanjung Enim (US$65/ton f.o.b. Kertapati) is assumed to increase
by 3% p.a. through FY1994 and to remain constant in real terms
thereafter.
8.        Taxes and Duties.  It is assumed that PTBA will be approved for
exemption from taxes and duties under Government Regulation No. 21 (1976)
which provides for entities which qualify:
(a) exemption from import taxes and duties for the first
ten years of Project implementation, and
(b) reduced income taxes for the first ten years to 35%,
followed by a tax rate of 45% of net profit before tax.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1981



- 108 -
ANNEX 6-2
INhDNESIA--BUSIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
PTBA--COAL PRODUCTION, SALES AND REVENUES
tUSTOOO--CURRENT TERMS)
1981    1982    1983    1984      1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991     1992       1993     1994
COAL PRODUCTION (000 TONS)
STEAM COAL
STEAM COAL                                                          1,~JS    I,IJ8- 200  400  64  1i6g    2.8  3,040    3,040    3,040    3,040    3.040  3,040    3,040
AIR LAYA                  200       -        -            -        -         -        -         -      -      -        -         -         -         -
SUBTOTAL                200     20Q     400      730    1,195    2,360    3,040    3,040    3,040    3,040    3,040    3,040         3,040    3,040
ANTARACITE                   SO      60       90     115       115      115       115      115      115       115      115       115.      lS        115.
TOTAL PRODUCTION          250     260      490     845    1,310    2,475    3,155    3,155    3,155    39155    3.155    3,155         3.155    3,155
LESS: OWN USE                40      40       40      40         -        -         -        -        -         -       -          -         -       ;
STOCKPILES--MINE              -       -        -      40         -        -       30        20       30            -     -         -         -         -
--TARAHAN          -        -       -        -        -         -       20        20        -         -        -       -           -        -
SUBTOTAL                   40      40       40      8o        -         -       so        40       30         -        -         -         -         -
COAL AVAILABLE FOR SALE    210      220      450     765    1.310    2,475    3,105    3,115.   3,125    3,155    3.155_ 3,155           3.155    3,155-
.3AL SALES 4000 TONS)
STEAM COAL
'LN--SURALAYA               -       -        -     785      910    1.825    2,445    2Y445    2,445    2,445    2.445    2,445         2,445    2,445
LN--MINE-MOUTH PLANT       -       -        -       -       150      400      400       400      400       400      400       400       400       400
PT BATURAJA                80      8O       sO      80       80        80       80       100      100       100      100       100       100       100
IANSKA                  --         35      35      lS        35        35       35       35        35       35        35       35         35       35
J-NA                              24      24       18        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -         -
OTHERS                     56      21      21       20       20        20       20        20       30        60       60        60        60        60
S-UBTOTAL               160     160     160      938    1.195    2,360    2,980    3,000    3.010    3.040    3,040    3,040         3,040    3,040
ANTHRACITE                   50      60       90     115   '  115       115       lTS      115       15      115       115          -     115 111S
_- -   -- --    -- --   -- --   --    --                                  --      ----          ___ _______ .___                         _____ _______ _ -- -          _--_-- -   -- - -  -------  ____ 
TOTAL SALES               210     220     250   1.053    1,310    2,475    3,095    3,115    3,125    3,155    3,155    3,155          3,155    3,155
-DAL PRICE (US$/T74)
STEAM COAL
PLN--SURALAYA           57.00   62.00   67.00   73.00    79.00    82.00    93.00    97.00   10.O00   113.00   126.00   132.00    145.00   152.00
FLN--MINE-MOUTH PLANT  44.00   48.00   52.00   56.00    61,00    66,00    71,00    77.00    83.00    90.00    98.00   106.00    114.00   123.00
PT BATURAJA             35.00   41.00   47.00   61.00    66.00    71.00    77.00    83.00    90,00    97.00   106.00   115.00    123.00   133.00
BANGKA                  37.00   44.00   51.00   60.00    66.00    71.00    76.00    83.00    89.00    97.00   105.00   114.00    123.00   132.00
PUKA                    32.00   37.00   43.00   56.00    61,00    66.00    71.00    77.00    83.00    90.00    98.00   106.00    114.00   123.00
OTHERS                  37.00   44.00   S1.00   60.00    66.00    71.00    76.00    83.00    B9.00    97.00   105.00   114.00    123.00   132.00
ANTHRACITE                67.00   75.00   83.00   91.00   100.00   109,00   118.00   130.00   141.00   155.00   169.00   184.00    201.00   219.00
C8AL REVENUES (USNOQO)
STEAM COAL
PLN--SURALAYA               -       -        -  57,305   71,890  149.650  227,385  237,165  264,060  276,285  308,070  322,740   354,525  371,640
PLh--MINE-MDUTH PLANT       -       -        -       -    9,110   26,400   28,400   30,B00   33,200   36,000   39,200   42,400    45,600   499200
PT BATURAJA             2,800   3,280   3,760   4,880    5,280    5.680    6,160    8,300    9,000    9,700   10,600   11,500    12,300   13,300
BAN8KA                      -   1,540   1,785   2,100    2,310    2,485    2,660    2.905    3,115    3,395    3,675    3.990          4,305    4,620
FPJA                      768     888   1.032   1,008          -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -
OTHERS                  2,072     924   1.071   1,200    1.320    1.420    1,520    1.660    2,670    5.020    6,300    6,840          7,380    7,920
,                                      -   --   --   -   _---_   _   _  __  _  _  _  _----  _-- --_------ ------_--- ---  ------  -------_------ _--- ---_ ------_-------  - -----_---- --_------
SUBTOTAL              5,640   6.632   7.648  66,493   89,950  185,635  266,125  280,830  312,045  331,200  367,845  387,470   424.110  446,680
ANTHRACITE                3,350   4.500   7,470  10.465   11.500   12.535   13.570   14,950   16.215   17,825   19.435   21,160    23,115   25,185
7TTAL REVENUES          8,990  11.132  15.118  76F958  101.450  198.170  279,695  295,780  328,260  349,025  387,280  408,630   447.225  471.865
TOTAL REVENUES
(RUPIAH MILLION)     5,619   6.958   9.449  48,099   63,406  123,856  174,809  184,863  205S163  218,141  242,050  255,394   279.516  294,916
:NDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
EPORT PREPARED-iO/16/81



-109 -                                                   ANNE  6-3
INDONESIA--44JK1T A!LAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT (ROnJFI:T
PTBA--CONSIILIJtATEII INCOME STATEMENT
(REIPIAN MILLIONS--CURRENT TERMS)
1981     1982     1983      1984     1985       1906.      198/      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992       1993       1994
COAL PRIODUCTION
STEAM COAL                                      200      200       400      730    1,195      2.360     3,040      3,040      3,040    34,040      3,040      3,040     3,040      3,040
ANTHRACITE                                       50       60        90      115       115       115        115        115       115        115       115        115        liS       115
SUBTOTAL                                     250       260      490       845    1,310      2,475     3,155      3.155     3,155      3,155      3,155     3,155      51.555    3,155
COAL- SALES
STEAM COAL                                      160      160       160      938   1,195,    2,360        2,980    34,000      3,010     3,040      3.040      3,040     3.040      3,040
ANTHRACITE                                      .90        40       90      115       11s       TIS        115        115       115        115        115       115        115        115
SURTOTAL                                      210      220      250    1,05:5   1,310       2,475     3.09S5    3,115       3, 125    3,155      3,1S5    3,155        1, 155    3,155
COAL REVENUES
STEAM COAL                                    3,529    4.145   4,780  41,550  56,2719  116,022  166,328  175,519  195,028   207,000   229,903  242,169  265,069  279,175
ANTHRACITE                                    2,094   7,6(8 3   4,669   6,541   7,188         7,834      8,481     9,344    10,134    11.141    12,147    13,225   14,447   15,741
TOTAL COAL REVENUES                             5,619   6,938   9,449  48,099  63,406  123,856  174,809  184,863  205,163  218,141   242,050  255,394  279,516  294,916
OPERAI INS, EXPENSES
MINING COSTS
BUKir ASAM--SURALAYA                            -        -         -      420      945     2,560   36,046   41,038   44,123   48,212    53.564   57,995   61,037   64,988
BUKIT A~SAM--NON-SURALAYA                       -        -         -        -         -         -          -    8,032      8.637      9,436    10,484    11,352    11,847    12,720
SUBTOTAL                                      -        -        -      420       945.    7,560   36,044    49,070   52,760   57.648    64.048    69,347    72,984    77,708
MUARA TOGA                                      - 3,871   7,822  15,5 76,  17,419   18,712            5,590          -          -          --                    ---
AIR LATA                                   2,901         -         -        -         -         -          -          -         -          --                    ---
SUBTOTAL                                 2,90 3I     7       ,2    1594   1,6           2,272   41.634    49,070   52,760   51,648    64,048   69,347   72,984    77.708
ANTHRACITE                                   667       758      927   1,201    1,374        1,451     1,570      1,728      1,899     2.089      2,298   -2,532   -2,785   -3,064
SUBTOiTAL MINING COSTS                    3.568   4,629   8,749  12,197  19,737   22,723   43,206   510,798   54.659   59,737    66,346   71,879   75,769   80.772
COAL HANDILING
EERTAPATI                                    211       3Sf      417       503      580        676        738       860        900       984       1,091     1,19S      1,3507       769
TARAIIAN                                        -        -         -      588      .652     1,920     2,228      2,426     2.633      2.862      3,108      3,387      3,683     4,006
SUATOlA)  COAL HANDILING                   211       301      417   1,091    1,242       2,596      2.966S    3.286      3.533      3.846      4,199      4,58R2    4,990      4.775
T RANSP OR TATICON
RAIL 1 PANSFORT
SURALAYA                                     -         -         -   8.95_4  11,233   23,i 383    43,471   46,908   5J,090   55.623    S9,680   65,142   72,085   79,323                    F
BATURAJA                                   245      306       343      377       411       411        448        488       532        580        632        689        751       819
KERTAPATI                                  280       415      578       435      692        954       322        896       977      5,065      1,161   -1,265   -1,379   -1.503
SURTOTAL, RAILWAT                     633       721      971   9.964   12,336   24, 548   44.741   48,292   52.599   57.268    61,473   67,096   74,215   80,645
SEA TRANSPORT
LEASE                                        -         -        -   5.440   8,000        8,000      8,000     8.000      0.000     8.000       8,000      8,000     8,000      8,000
IF'ERATING COS;TS                            -                          40      7510      .390       4503       720       800        890        990      1,090     1,220      1,360
FUEL                                         -         -        -       125      429        635       723        845       852      1,081      1,172      1,264     1,347   -1.467
SUBTOTAL SHIPPING-                                -         -   5.8905   8,959      9,025      9.373      9,565     9,752      9.971    10.162    10,354   10.567    10,827
SPIRTOTAI TRANSPORT                        633       721      971  15,771  21,295    3.3,5735   54,114   57.857   62,351   67,239    71,635   77,450   84,782   91,472
ADMINISTRATION/OVERHEADS
TANJUNI ENIN OFFICE                             -        -      583   1.059   2,264        3,188    2k,469    3.898        4,251      4.544       4.999     5.S08      6,058     3,843
MINkIGlOYSITE                                   -        -      31 5   1, 1 13   1,230      1,354     1,468      1,638     1,800      1,981       2,178     2,400    3,440       2,905
OTHER ADMIN. COSTS                         1.096   1,207        632       982    1,576     2.049      2,236    2,f497      2,729      2.943       3.237   -3,567   -3.922   -3,043
SUBSlOTAL AEFMIN/OVERHEAOS               1,096   1,207   1.530   3.159   3,070    61,591                , 193  8,033     8.780     9~,468     10,414   11,475   12,620         9.791
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                     5.508   6,858  11,617  772E 47,744   65,483  107.479  119,974  129.32.3  140,290   352,594  165,386  178,161  186,810
NET OPERATING REVENUE                             i11       100  (2,168) 10,861  16,062   50.373   61,330   64,889   73.840   77.851                 89,456   90,008  101,355  108,106
LESS:
DIE PRE C IATION
EXISTING ASSETS                            1,065    1,065    1,065   1.035   1.035            463       3556       248        248       248         248        248      2248        248
NEW ASOFTS;--7iUKI( ASAM, PMOJECT               -        -      169       149  19.578    19.990   21,275    21,841   20.412   21,674             22.474    22,720   23,413   23,162
NEW ASSETS--SUVIT ASAN, NON-PROJECT             -        -      179       179      179        179     1,909    2.608       2,608      2,608       2.608      2,608     1,222        262
NEW AET-MIRAIIGA                                -      640    1 ,2(J0,O     1,970   2,400  2,400        670          -          -          -                       
CAPITALI2ATION OF PEE-IFS                       -        -         -        -         --              1,910    1,910       1,810      1,910       1.910      1,910     1.910      1,910
LAPTIALIJI)IO  Ot 06  30,                                -         -        -                              -       434        434       434         434   ...434   ...434    __434
SUA TITAL                                1,065   t1.70'5  2,49.3  3. 303  23,1t72   22.032   26.120   21,061   25,672   24.874                27.6/4   27,920   27,427   26.016
OPERATING INCOME                                 (954) (1,6011  ( 4,8611   7.73  (7,130)  353 41    41,210   37,828   50,160    50,877                61,782   62,088   73,928   02,090
INTEREST INCOME                                      -        -        -         -        -          -         -          -          --
TOTAL INCOMiE                                    (954)  (1,605) (4,861)  7.5178  (7,130)  21,341    41,210   37.8758   50.168   50,i97 7             61,782   62,080    73,928   82,080
LNTM:fRER  ExT6ENSEE                                            -                       -   3,300   36.791   33.944   351,345   28,392             2518       21,442    17.332           -
iAlE(EFOkE rAXES                             (954) ( 1,601,) ( 4,461)  7.978  (7,130Q)  (3,039)   4,919          3.884    11,623   22,505        36,664   40,646   56.596   82,090
LESS:
OAX ES                                            -         -        - 2,652            -          -     1,722     1.31Y    6.508       7.905      16.499    18,291   25,668   36.941
NET INCOME                                       (75,41  (1. 601) (4,86t)  4.824~ (7,130)  (3,039)    3,187   _2,525   -12,235   -14,680    -20,165   22,355   31.128   -45.149
ONIFF0,TRL15 PRI(JECIS ('EPARTMENT
REPOnRT PREPARE0U.2/04/Sl



110 -
ANNEX 6-4
INDONESIA--BUKIT ADAM COAL MININO, AND TRANSPOkT PROJECT
PTBA--CONSOI.IPATFD_S(lUTCF.S ANDI APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(RUPIAH MIL.LIONS--CURRENT TERMS)
1981    1982      1983      1984    1985    1986        1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992           1993      1994
SnURIES
OPERATING INCOME                (954) (1,605)  (4.861)   7,578  (7,130) 35.341   41,210  37.828  50 , 168  510977  61,782  600f,8   73.929   82,090
DEPRECIATION                   1.065   1,705    2.693    3.303  23,192  23.03:'   26.120  27.061  25,6;2  26,874  277,674  27,920    27,427  -26,016
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS          III      100   (2,1681  10,881  16,062  58,373   67,33i  M4,889  75,840  77,851  89.4b6  90.000   101,355  (08,106
INCREASE IN:
LI (LEST
(1480                         -  J5.438   33.250   28,000   7.125            -         -                 -        -        -       --
KFW                            -   5.813   1:5,875   "9.000   1.313          -         -        -        --                         -
EDC/CIDA                       -   3.313   11.375   10.12h   1.688                                                  
EXF'SRT CREDIT                 -   4,125j  27t688   51,1438  1/7.70          --O                                             
GOVERNMENT DEBT                -        -        -         -27,000  27,70  D-                                     -          
SUSTOTAL LOANS              -28.689   86,108   98.563  514.876  27 200               -        -        -        --
EGtITII
F'ROJFCT                 10,100  59,740  137,775   20,29   2.95          7,100         -        -        -        -        -        -
MUARA TIGA                     - 3,675    2.500    4,063   1,438             -         -        -        -        -        -        ---
B1ffJ5iEf ALLiOrATION          -       -    2.211           -       -        -                  -        -        -        -        --
SUBTOTAL EIyQUITY      10.0100  63,365  142.486    24.-348 4 2p73,4 8    3 - -,3- -3- 7_,l,0_0-----   --7--100--   ---------   ---------------
SUBTUTAL                 10,100  92.054  22.    '412,911  87.239  34.300               -        -        -                 -        ---
TOTAL SOURCES              10.211  92p.154  226.5,06  133o7Y2  98,301  92.673   6k7,330  64,889  75,040  77,851  99,456  90,000   101.755  t08otC6
APPLICAT IONS
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS
PROJECT--MINE               8.063  71.875  165.625   72,000  29.461  25,88S5    5.,300   3,900   4,300   8,200   2,300   4.100               2,200     Woo0
--TOWNSITE             375      688    8,000   18,188  F8,8/5  18,938   13,067   14125   4,188              -        -        ---
--KERlAPATI            %88   1,000          -         -                 -         -        -       -        -        -        ---
--TARAHAN              500   99188   34.688    4.875   1,408            -         -       -        -        -        -        --
--OP. ASSISTANCE         -        -          ----- :    ,350  -5,610   -4,990O  2,915   2,770  ----                    -----    ----  ----
SUBTOTAL                  9,126  84,751  208.313   9N,063  45.774  5.0,433   23.353  14,940  112 8,8200   2,300   4,100                   2.200    8,800
MUARA (bGA                       -   3.625    2.P000    4,06      1, l438      -         -        -        -        -        -        ---
INT. DUR. CONSTR.                -   3.940   15.025   20,535  70.525           -         -        -        -                 -        ---
SUBTOTAL INVESTMEWTS    9,126  92,316  225,888  119,661  77,337  50,433   27.353  14,940  1128 8,200   27000   4.100                       2.200o    8,8300.
INTEREST EXPENSE                   -        -         -         -           38.3580  .36.291  3:4,94 4  31,345  28,192  25,1 1 821.442        17.332         -
LOAN REPAYMENTS
1880       -        -         -         -        -        -    4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:5!.0   5.100   5.710   6:,400   7,170?(   8/20  8.4    1.
KFW                                                                            63~~-- -    - - 1,:0   (.830   2, 0 00   2,270   21,570   2'.-~    3. 220    3,6:0
EDC/CIDA                         -        -         -         -        -       -     1.440   1.610   1,810   2,020 '   2.2/0   2,540         2,R40    3.170
EXPflAr CREDIT                   -        -         -         -        -       -     5.490   6.150O   6,890   7,7110   8,640   9 ,660       10,640   12, 140
GOIVERNMENT DEBT                 -        -         -         -        -       -     2,948   31,297   3,695   4,137   4,635    5.190         5.817    6PS15
SUBTOTAL REPAYM4ENTS           -       -         -         -        -        - 16.058  17,987  20,155  2 2, 557  :5.285  28,310           31.707   35,515
INCREAUO: ENI
WCiKKINO CAPITAL             1.013    (289)       618    1,799   1.210   4,874   14,.W7    ,91 0   4,304          821   4,316   2.618        2,704       608
TAYES                              -        -         -    2.652         -        -     -722'  1,35Y    9,53 7,8   ,905,  ',,4?9  18,2iY:     25,468   36,941
TOTAL APPLICArIONS         10,139  92.077  226,506  124,1'12  78,541  Qi,681   91,663  74.140  73 ,46 L. 067.875  773.520 874.701           79.411   81.864
CASH SURPLUS (LOSS)               72      127         -    9,680  (9,754  (1.014) 124,311(.1'h2SI)  2.190   9,9/6  15,938   !, ,247           21.944   26,242
ArC. CASH SURPLUS (LOnSS)         72      199       199    9,87Y 9 79633 28.4 19    4,28,1  (4.965) (2,725)  7,201  23.139  39,386            60,330   86.572
INDUSTRIAL PR:OJECTS DEPARTMENT
REPIIRr PREPAREI: (2/08/81



- 111 -                                            ANNEX 6-5
INDONESIA--HUhIT ASAn COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT RROJFCT
PTBA--CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
(RUPIAH MILLIONS--CURRENT TERNS)
1981     1982      1983      19E4     190:.    1986       1987      1988      1989     1990      1991       1992      1993      1994
CURkFNI ASSETS
CASH                            388       314       425   10.266   30-183   29,303    51947   (2,937)    (547)   9.652   25,835    41,359   63,523   89,898
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLF             468       580       787    4,00E    5,284   10,321   14,567   15,405   17,097   18,178   20,171    21,283   23.293   24.076
INVENTORIES                     428       164       508    1,44/    2,161    3,905   16.529   21,927   23,455   259491   28,343    30,586   32,318   32.672
- ----  --  ----  --- --   -  - - -  - - - -   - - - -    - - --    - - --   - ---   --   - -     -- - -   --------   ------- -      - _-   -------  - -  
SUBTOTAL CURRENT ASSETS   1,284    1,05R    1,720   15,721   37,630   43,5?9   37,043   34,395   40,005   53,321   74,349    93,228  119.134  141,146
FIXED ASSFTS
PLANT I EZI'UI1PMNT           9,126  101,442  327,330  446,991  '24,A F'  574,7A!  598.114  613,054  6?4,.12  632,512  634,812   638,912  641,112  647,512
LESS:  At,C. DEPRFCIATInN    I,0        2,771)       4     .1 d,746    i,9e   ')4,S9O  8R1910  :'081,:t  133,843  160,/17  188t,71    216,311  243,736  260,754
NET PLANT A EOUIPMENT       8,061   98,672  3;1,867  438,225  492,370  519,771  517,004  504,883  490,469  471,795  446,421   422,601  397,374  380.158
--- -- --- --  -- ---   -- - -    - - -     - ---   -- -  -   -- - -    -- - -    -------  ----_ --   -   ---    --  - -  - - - -
TOTAL ASSETS              9,345   99,730  323,587  453,946  530,000  s63,3c0  554,04?  539.27f  530,474  525.136  520,770   515,829  516.508  527,304
CURRENI LIAPILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                199       135       179    2,701    3,646    5,6R5    9-293    9,986    9-102   11,621   12.395           13,409   14,667   15,829
CURRENT PORTION LT DEBT           -         -         -         -         -   17,2 0   19,320   21,.50   240.30   ;7,160   30,410    34,060   38,150   42,720
_ -    -- - -    -- - -   - - - -  - - - -  -  - - -  - -  - -  - -  --    - - --    - ---   --- - -    --  - -     - --    -- ----
SUBTOTAL CURRENT LIAB.        199       135       179    2,701    3,646   22,93s   28,613   31,636   33,332   38,781   42.805           47,469   52,817   s8,549
LON,'-TiRm LAPIILITIES
LONG-TERM DEPT                    -   28,689  114,877  213,440  268,316  2/8,266  260,138  239,821  217,0C6  191,599  163,064    131,104   95,307   55,222
EQUITY ANI CAPITAL
PAID-IN CAPITAL              10.100   73,46S  21I,951  240,299  267,662  2/4.762  274.762  2/4.762  274,762  274.762  274,762    274.762  274,762  274,762
REfAINEI, EARNINGS             l9I  (,h914   t?,4.'0)  (2,494)  (9,4241 (12,663)  (9,4663  (6,941) 0,294   19,974   40.139               62,494   93-622  138,771
SUMfDTAL FGUITY I CAP.    9,14A   10,906  20.,531  237,sQs  2.),019  167,O9  265,2 96  ;67,8?2  200,0=6  294,736  314,901    337,256  368,384  413,3!
TOTAL LIAB.    EQULITY    9,345   99,730  323,58/  4S3,946  530,00O  563,300  554,041  539,278  530.414  525,116  520,770   515,829  516,508  527,304
=====_  =======  =: ====-,55=z====  5====5m=  ======f  ==.=====  =m======  ====~===  =======  =======   ====-==    ===
WORKING CAPIIAL               1,013       724    1,342    3,141    4,351    9,225   23,464   29,374   33,678   34,499   38,P15            41,433   44,037   44,745
CHANGE IN WO0NING CAPITAL   1,013        (289)      618    1,799    1,210    4,84   14,239    5,910    4.304           821    4,316       2,618    2,704        608
RAT U ANALYSIS
CURRENT                      6.45      7.84     9.61      5.82    10.32       1.90      1.29      1.09     1.20      1.37      1.74       1.96      2.26      2.51
0l'ICR                       4.30      6.62     6.77      5.28      9.73      1.73      0.72     0.39      0.50      0.72      1.07       1.32      1.64      1.96
DEBT/EQUITY                     -      0.40     0.55      0.90      1.04      1.13      1.05     0.98      0.86      0.74      0.61       0.49      0.36      0.24
DEfs SERVICE COVERAGE           -         -         -         -        -      1.52      1.29      1.25     1.47      1.53      1.77       1.81      2.07      3.04
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
REPORT PREPAREBI 12/08/81



112 -
ANNEX 6-6
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
Financial Rate of Return--Assumptions and Calculations
1.        The rates of return, both for the financial and economic return,
have been calculated on an incrementa,l basis. The analysis compares cost/
benefit streams for a scenario "with the Project" with the cost/benefit
streams that would have occurred "without the Project."  The respective
scenarios for the railroad component are given in Annex 6-7. Below the
"with" and "without" cases are defined for all other components, i.e.
mine, townsite, terminals and the ship.
2.        "With the Project" - 3.0 million tpy at Bukit Asam.  The cost and
benefit streams are based on the basic Project description outlined in
Chapter III and detailed in Annexes 6-1 to 6-5. The financial nominal streams
have been adjusted to reflect 1981 real term increases. This case, in parti-
cular, assumes that at full production 2.4 million tpy will be shipped to
Suralaya, 0.4 million to the mine mouth plant, and up to 0.2 million tpy to
miscellaneous customers. In addition, PTBA would produce and ship via
Kertapati 115,000 tpy of anthracite.
3.        "Without the Project."  In the case where the Project would not
be implemented, it can realistically be assumed that the Government would
continue to support a mining operation for social and regional economic
reasons as it has for the past ten years. It is, therefore, assumed that
steam coal and anthracite production at Bukit Asam would be rehabilitated
to meet a regional demand of up to 600,000 tpy of steam coal and 115,000
tpy of anthracite. The cost streams are detailed in the Project File and
include:
(a) for the mine, exploitation, of Muara Tiga at a rate of
600,000 tpy during the 1982-89 period. Thereafter,
opening of Bukit Asam for a 600,000 tpy truck and
shovel operation. Capital costs include mining equip-
ment as outlined in Annex 3-2 for Muara Tiga as well as
US$65 million to cover interim power investments,
upgrading of social infrastructure and PTBA engineering/
management expenses in case the Bukit Asam Project would
not be implemented. The operating cost stream includes
proportional administration cost for Jakarta and Tanjung
Enim offices. Cost of the 115,000 tpy anthracite pro-
duction is identical to that in the "With the Project"
case.
(b) for the terminals, rehabilitation of Kertapati as envisaged
under the "With" case.  The investments at Tarahan would not
be needed.



- 113 -
ANNEX 6-6
Page 2 of 5
(c) no investments for a ship, as no increased transshipment
above the present volume handled by Kertapati is en-
visaged.
The benefit stream assumes that even "without the Project" the Government
will raise coal prices f.o.b. Tanjung Enim from the present average of US$16.50/
ton to US$32/ton in 1981. Thereafter, coal prices would be increased annually
up to the opportunity cost of importing coal from Australia, which would be
reached not later than 1989. While this is a logical scenario, it is highly
unlikely that the Government would implement such onerous coal price increases
without the Project, i.e., this assumption penalizes the Project's incremental
rate of return.
4.        Below are the incremental cost/benefit streams for the PTBA,
rail and ship components, respectively. The detailed cost streams are
provided in the Project File (Chapter I).
5.        Furthermore, to calculate the incremental cost benefit streams
assuming an additional 3.0 million tpy from a second mine in South
Sumatra, the following scenario is considered:
Sufficient coal reserve data are available on deposits adjacent to
Bukit Asam to assume that a second 3.0 million tpy can be opened by 1988. The
cost streams for an additional 3.0 million tpy to be shipped on the Southern
rail route via Tarahan to Suralaya include:
(a) for the mine, 15% higher capital and operating costs in
1981 real terms than at Bukit Asam. This assumption
reflects the possibility of real-term cost increases for
coal mining equipment over the next decade and the pos-
sibility of thicker overburden and lower-quality coal
at a second mine.
(b) for the rail, terminal and shipping components, the incre-
mental capital and operating costs prepared by MCS for
Milestone 6 for the 5.5 million tpy alternative have been
used.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1981



- 114 -                         ANFE 6
Page 3 of 5
INDONESIA--BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING A  TRANSPORT PROJECT
MINE COMPONENT--COST/BENEFIT STREAMS FOR FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
(Rupiah million--mid-FY1981 terms)
Mina       Towvsite       Tarahan
Capital      Capital       Capital     Operating       Coal
Period          Costs        Costa         Coats         Costs      3venues
1            8056.25        600.00       830,00          0,00          0,00
2           56946.88        960.00     1.3180.00       831.25          0.00
3          126635,63       9540400    48850400        15000+00         0400
4           48132.50    20050.00         6400.00      52.35.63    29000.00
5           20204.38       8770.00       1.940,00     5404.38    38193.75
6           13688,75       9260.00          0,00      6434.3B    79106.25
7           13207.50       5250,00          0.00    17453.75   102606.25
8            3956.25       2460.00        350.00     15995.00   1.00468.75
9               18.75         0.00        350o00     13980,00    99443,75
10           -128.13          0.00        350.00    11630.00    99068.75
11           -940.63          0,00       350.00      12260.00   103900.00
12           2146.88          0.00       350.00      121.50,00   102731.25
13           2371.88          0.00        350.00     11520.00   106856.25
14          -1378.13          0.00        350.00     11100.00   105393.75
15           -128,13          0+00        350.00    11100.00   105393.75
16           -940.63          0.00        350.00    11100.00   105393.75
17           2146.88          0.00       350.00    1.1100.00   105393.75
i1           2371.88          0,00        350.00     11.100i 00   105393.75
19          -1378.13          0.00       350.00      11100.00   105393.75
20           -128.13          0+00        350.00    11.1100.00   1.05393.75
21           -940.63          0.00        350.00    1.11.00,00   105393.75
22           2146.88          0.00        350.00   .1 11.00.00   105393.75
23           2371.88          0.00        350.00    1:1.100.00   1.05393.75
24          -1378.13          0+00        350.00    :1.1100.00   1.05393.75
25           -128.13          0.00        350.00     111.004+'00   105393.75
26           -940.63          0.00        350.00    :11100400   105393.75
27           2146.88          0.00        350.00     11100.00   105393.75
28           2371.88          0.00        350.00    1.11.00,00   IO05393.75
29          -1378.13          0.00        350.00     111.(0.0()   1.05393.75
30           -128.13          0.00        350,00    11100.00   105393.75
31          -3312.50          0.00        350.00     11100.00   105393.75
32          - 225.00          0+00        350.00    1.11.0000   105393.75
33-34            0.00         0.00        350.00     111.100,00   1.05393.75
Industrial Projects Department
December 1981



ANNEX 6-6
- 115 -                               Page 4 of 5
INDONESIA--BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
RAIL COMPONENT--COST/BENEFIT STREAMS FOR FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
(Rupiah million--mid-FY1981 terms)
Capital    Operating      Working          Rail
Period        Costs        Costs        Capital        Tariff
1         9350              0            0              0
2        57510              0            0              0
3        53525              0            0              0
4        31090            960        1493            6189
5         2780            995         353            7136
6             0          ]840        1409           13691
7         1180          2650         1306          23552
8         1380          2650           299          23531
9         5400          2650          336          23730
10             0          2650          337          23922
11           580          2650          280          23766
12         6550           2650          348          24019
13         4180           2650          409          24611
14           290          2650          341          24759
15             0          2650          287          24582
16             0          2650          282          24388
17           680          2650          280          24196
18           160          2650          279          24031
19          400           2650          277          23831
20             0          2650          274          23642
21             0          2650          271          23451
22             0          2650          398          24022
23        13170           2650          511          25212
24         5800           2650          443          25915
25         6530           2650          402          26326
26           380          2650          305          26133
27             0          2650          298          25914
28            70         2650           296          25700
29           160          2650          293          25488
30            40         2650           290          25270
31             0          2650          287          25050
32             0          2650          285          24840
33          220          2650           287          24651
34          520           2650          284          24463
Industrial Projects Department/
East Asia & Pacific Projects
December 1981



116                         ~~~~~~~ANNEX 6-6
- 116 -                                Page 5 of 5
INDONESIA--BUKIT ASAM COAL MINING AND TRANSPORT PROJECT
SHIP COMPONENT--COST/BENEFIT STREAMS FOR FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS
(Rupiah million--*mid-FY1981 terms)
Capital    Operating       Fuel
Period          Costs         Costs        Costs        Lease
1             370            0             0             0
2            3690            0             0             0
3            8225            0             0             0
4            4960          130           260          3575
5             240          260           360          4890
6               0          260           390          4615
7               0          260           440          4350
8               0          260           440          4015
9               0          270          440           3875
10               0          270           440          3655
11               0          270           440          3445
12               0          270           440          3250
13               0          280           420          3070
14               0          280           420          2895
15               0          280           420          2730
16            4360          280           420          6705
17            8480          290           420          8505
18            4880          290           420          8025
19             330          290           420          7570
20               0          290           420          7140
21               0          300           420          4810
22               0          300           420          4540
23               0          300           420          4285
24               0          310           420          4040
25               0          310           420          3810
26               0          310           420          2595
27               0          310           420          3390
28               0          320           420          3200
29               0          320           420          3020
30               0           320          420          2850
31               0          330           420          2685
32               0          330           420          2535
33               0          330           420          2390
34               0          340           420          2255
Industrial Projects Department
December 1981



- 117 -
ANNEX 6-7
Page 1 of 4
RAILWAY COMPONENT - ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
A. Definition of Non-Project Investments in "With Project"/
"Without Project" Cases
In both the "with" and "without" Project cases, the non-Project
investment program is based on the non-Project traffic forecasts given in
Annex 3-1. In the "without" Project case, the track and structures would
be designed for a 13-ton axle load; accordingly, the rolling stock requirements
are based on 13 ton axle load vehicles. Comparable non-Project investments for
the "with" Project case are based on upgrading the track to an 18-ton axle
load standard. The difference between the non-Project investment programs
for the "with" and "without" Project cases is small in comparison to the size
of the Project investment program presented in Chapter IV. Details of the
"with" and "without" Project cases are set forth below:



- 118 -
ANNEX 6-7
Page 2 of 4
1.   Proposed Upgrading of Fixed Installations
"Without" Suralaya Coal Traffic:
-  Track                                                    Sleepers  lantenings Points 6
Crossings
1984/85  35.0 km From 13.7 to km 48.7          Replacing R3 by R.14      7350 W    _         20
1985/86  36.2 km From 48.7 to km 84.9          Replacing R3 by R14       7602 W    -         20
1985/86  38.0' km From Muara Znim to Lahat     Replacing R2 by s/h R3    37000 W  114000     32
1986/87  26.4 km From km 122.5 to km 148.9     Replacing R3 by R14       7128 W    _         10
1986/87  38.0 km From Lahat to Paduraksa       Replacing R2 by s/h  R3    57000 14  114000  28
'987188  37.6 km Fron km 84.9 to km 122.5      Replacing 23 by R14      56400 W  1128C0      20
1987/88  38.0 km From Paduraksa to Tatnjungning    Replacing R2 by s/h R3.   57000 W  1140C0  28
1988/89  30.1 km From km 148.8 to km 179.9     Replacing R3 by R14     .45150 W   90300     20
1988/8q ..38.0 km From Tanjungnine to Labuklinggau  Replacing R2 by s/h R3    57000 W  114000  32
-  Bridges    NIL
-  Signals   Replace 30 stations on the South line in 5 years from FY1981
to FY1985. Replace 16 stations between Muaraenim and
Lubuklinggau in 5 years from FY1986 to FY1990 using second
hand material salvaged from the Java Lines.
- Service Vehicles
Replace 4 service vehicles per year throughout program.
- Buildings Repair and extend stations as required as the signalling
system is upgraded at each station.
-  Housing   Replace 8 houses per year throughout program.
-  Workshops and Workshop Equipment
Tanjung Karang   Rebuild and equip the existing running shop to
cater to the servicing of the diesel locomotives,
goods wagons and passenger coaches over 2 years,
FY1982 and FY1983.
Lahat              Rebuild and equip the main workshop to provide
the overhaul facility for the major overhaul
of the diesel locomotive fleet, goods wagon
fleet and passenger coach fleet over 3 years
from FY1984 to FY1986.
Kertapati          Rebuild and equip the existing steam running
shop to cater to running inspection of the
diesel locomotives, goods wagons and the
servicing and minoir repair to the passenger
coach fleet over 2 years, FY1987 and 1988.



- 119 -
ANNEX 6-7
Page 3 of 4
2.   Proposed Upgrading of Fixed Installations
"With" Suralaya Coal Traffic:
-  Track                                    I1
plAcement   Sleepers     FastennRs    Points trossint
1984/85 38 km Muarsenim to Lahat             R3          57 000 (w)   114 000           32
1985/86 38 km Lahat to Padukeraa             R3          57 000 (w)   114 000           28
1986/87 38 km Padukarsa to Tanjungning       R3          57 000 (w)   114 000           28
1987188 38 km Tanjungning to Lubuklinggau    R3          57 000 (w)   114 000           32
1988/89 38 km Prabumulih to Serdang         .R14 - 1965   64 975 (c)   129 000          26
1989/90 39 km Serdang to Kertapati           R14 - 1965   66 300 (w)   132 600          20
230 km                                            294 300 (w)   718 550         166
64 975 (c)
otet: (c) - Concrete
(w) - Wood
-  Bridges    (upgrade existing bridges originally insallaed for 18-ton
axle load)
FY1984 and FY1985--140 ton each year Prabumulih to Kertapati
for a total of 280 tons.
- Signals and Communications
FY1985 to FY1993: Replace existing Signal and Telecommunication
System to Lubuklinggau at a rate of 2 units
per year for signals and 2 units per year
for telecommunications (total of 18 units each).
- Service Vehicles
Replace 4 per year (total of 26) from FY1985 to FY1993.
-  Buildings Replace 1 station per year (total of 9) from FY1985 to FY1993.
-  Housing   Replace 8 houses per year (total of 72) from FY1985 to FY1993.
-  Workshops and Workshop Equipment
Upgrade facilities at Kertapati passenger coash fleet
from FY1984 to FY1986.
B.   Assumptions for Financial Projections
The methodology and principal bases and assumptions underlying the
forecasts are presented below:
(i) Revenues: Project revenues have been developed from the coal production
schedule (Annex 6-3) and the tariffs discussed in para. 6.23.



- 120 -
ANNEX 6-7
Page 4 of 4
(ii) Working Expenses: Forecasts of working expenses are based on a detailed
costing exercise undertaken by consultants. It is assumed that, in addition
to existing ESS staff, about 500 new employees will be needed to handle the
Project traffic. Fuel and maintenance have been projected in line with the
growth in traffic. The increase in working expenses in nominal terms has
been projected on the basis of inflation rates presented in para. 4.05;
(iii)  Depreciation is calculated on the basis of revalued assets.  Assets
procured during the Project period are assumed to have an average life of
32 years. Calculations include the effect of ESS's proposed schedule for the
retirement and replacement of assets;
(iv)   Debt Service:  For the purpose of the financial projections, the offshore
financing of the railway portion of the Project is treated as "imputed debt"
of ESS at an interest charge of 12% p.a. (repayable over 20 years, including
one year of grace);
(v)    Short-term deposits are assumed to earn 12% p.a.;
(vi)   Receivables are proportional to freight and coal-traffic;
(vii)  Inventories are assumed to expand to approximately five months of mate-
rials expense and three months of fuel expenses by FY1984;
(viii) Accounts payable vary with working expenses; and
(ix) A minimum cash requirement of approximately three months of working
expense is assumed.
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
December 1981



121 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA--Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
Economic Rate of Return--Assumptions and Calculations
1.        The incremental economic rate of return is based on the "with"
and "without' cases for a 3.0 million tpy Bukit Asam mine and additional
3.0 million tpy from a second South Sumatran mine given in Annexes 6-6 and
6-7. The financial cost/benefit streams in real terms have been adjusted
to
-    exclude all taxes, in particular, income taxes which
PTBA will start paying in FY1987 and import taxes and
duties for which exemption will terminate by 1990;
-    include the full economic cost of fuel and electricity
to Indonesia, thus excluding the major subsidy elements.
No shadow pricing of labor has been used. While the Project will employ
up to 2,000 originally, unskilled persons, major training expenses are
included in the Project and their salary corresponds to their market value
shortly after production start-up. In line with the practice in other
Indonesian projects, no shadow pricing has been used for the Project's
foreign exchange benefits and costs.
2.        The benefit stream reflects the opportunity cost of importing
alternative fuels; i.e. either importing coal from Australia or Bunker C.
As this would free high quality Indonesian crude for export the differential
is also taken into account as outlined below:
(a)  the opportunity cost of importing coal from Australia.
As detailed in Annex 5, Indonesia would have to pay US$44/
ton fob Australia in 1981 terms to import coal "of similar
quality" to Bukit Asam coal. As Suralaya would not be
equipped to receive, on a continuous basis, the required coal
quantities of up to 2.4 million tpy, it has been assumed that
special medium-term charter arrangements for delivering and
unloading coal at Suralaya would be required until major pier
and unloading facilities could be constructed-by FY1986. The
cost of providing these intermediate arrangements has been
estimated at US$22/ton in 1981 terms. Thereafter, long-term
ship charter f.a.s. costs have been estimated at US$13/ton in
1981 terms. The coal component is estimated to increase at
1.5% through 1985 and 2% p.a. until 1995 but constant there-
after; the shipping component is to increase by 4% p.a. until
1990; the unloading component has been assumed constant over
the entire forecast period.



- 122 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
(b) the opportunity cost of importing fuel. In case fuel would
have to be used at the Suralaya power plant, Indonesia would
import "Bunker C" crude, because higher-quality Indonesian oil
can be exported at a premium. 1981 prices of "Bunker C"
from the Middle East average to date US$34.5/barrel or about
US$35/barrel f.a.s. Suralaya. A real growth of oil prices
by 1.2% has been assumed in 1982 and 2.6% p.a. thereafter.
(c) export differential for high quality Indonesian crude.
Indonesian crude has been consistently sold at a premium
compared to average OPEC oil prices as outlined below:
Crude Petroleum Prices
(US$ barrel FOB)
1978     1979      1980      1981
OPEC Average             12.73    19.92    31.35    33.78
Sumatran Crude           13.56    20.65    31.50    37.00
Attaka Crude              14.11    23.09    34.25    38.50
For the purpose of rate of return and foreign exchange
benefit calculations, it has been assumed that a 10%
premium will be maintained in the future.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1981



IBRD 13232R1
o o           $ r                 .        ,,                \ \.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_THAILAND - -
10                                  1020                                            KT                                              PHILIPPINES
- '     ~N ..    - -     ^  . Al L A       BRUNEI
41~~~~~~
KALIMANTAN
SULAWESI
L0. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~SUMBAWA_                                                                          -
Pad      anlan-_
-20                                                                                                                                              2
', -    BANGKA,'
K5                                  " --(  - *  'E -~   _ alembang
N<        '        \.,      Lubuklinggau                                                -
\\   (;E    P   i      ~Muara        Perabumufih
_40                                   Bengkulu4    f          Tanjung En m
\  &   *. _>,  0 '  Y8B~~atutaia _             
\ > \ ) \x ~Kota bum i
INDONESIA
BUKIT ASAM  COAL MINING                                                '<                          Tanjungkarang
AND  TRANSPORT  PROJECT                                                             Telukbetun gPanjang
RAILWAYS                                                                                     - a
-----~ ~  EXISTING TRACK
60               _           EXISTING TRACK TO BE REHABILITATED                                                  Sura6ayai        --       akar-
---  NEW TRACK  EXTENSION                                                          :            .
ROADS                                                                           Labuha
PROPOSED SHIPPING ROUTE                                                                            Bandun
POWER PLANT AND UNLOADING FACILITIES                                              '-   -
- -   TRANSMISSION  LINES                                                                                   -
PORTS
- - -- - PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
This map has been prepared by the World Bank's staff esolunicely for the oon'enience
o       50      100       150     200                      of the readers of the repor to rh,ch ,t in ettached. The denomin,ations soed end the
KILOMETERS .-                                                            boundaries shown on this map do not imply. on the part of the World Bank and its
MILES iaffiliates, any judgme.nt on the legal status of any terrtory or any endo-sment or
0ILES ' -      t50           100           150              acceptance of such boundaries
1000                                102                                    1040                                   106M



