OFFICIAL      OAN NUMBER 2079 IND
Loan Agreement
(Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development
and Transportation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January Q , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2079 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January       , 1982, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
(A) WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) WHEREAS to assist in financing the Project the Borrower
has requested (i) from the Federal Republic of Germany through
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau a loan (hereinafter called the KfW
Loan); (ii) from Canadian International Development Association
a loan (hereinafter called the CIDA Loan); (iii) from Export
Development Corporation, Canada a loan (hereinafter called the EDC
Loan); and (iv) external loans from other sources;
(C) WHEREAS the Project will be carried out by POKKORLAK,
PTBA, PJKA and PANN (as hereinafter defined) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to POKKORLAK, PTBA, PJKA and PANN the proceeds of the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(D) WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in Project
Agreements of even date herewith between the Bank and PTBA, PJKA
and PANN;
(E) WHEREAS by a Loan.Agreement dated May 19, 1978 (here-
inafter called the S-9 Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and
the Bank, the Bank granted to the Borrower a loan (hereinafter
called the S-9 Loan) in various currencies equivalent to ten
million dollars ($10,000,000) to assist in financing technical
and economic feasibility studies for the Bukit Asam coal mine;
and
(F) WHEREAS the Bank will refund the S-9 Loan out of the
proceeds of the Loan provided for herein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ESS" means Eksplotasi Sumatera Selatan the southern
Sumatra operational unit of PJKA;
(b) "PJKA" means Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api, the
Borrower's state railway established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower;
(c) "PJKA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and PJKA of even date herewith as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to such Project
Agreement;
(d) "PLN" means Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara the state
electric power company;
(e) "POKKORLAK" means Kelompok Koordinasi Pelaksana Proyek
Pengembangan Pertambangan Dan Pengangkutan Batubara Bukit Asam,
the Borrower's coordination organization for implementation of the
Project;
(f) "PTBA" means P.T. (Persero) Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam,
established by Goverment Regulation No. 42 of 1980 the enterprise
managing the Project coal concession (Bukit Asam) and related
facilities;
(g) "PTBA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and PTBA of even date herewith as the same may be amended


﻿-3-
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to such Project
Agreement;
(h) "PTBA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and PTBA pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i) "PANN"   means  P.T. (Persero) Pengembangan Armada Niaga
Nasional, established by Government Regulation No. 18 of 1974, the
national fleet development corporation;
(j) "PANN Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and PANN of even date herewith as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
such Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to such
Project Agreement;
(k) "PANN Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and PANN pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(1) "Project Agreement" means any of the PTBA Project
Agreement, the PJKA Project Agreement and the PANN Project
Agreement;
(m) "PANN Charter" means the articles of incorporation of
PANN authenticated by notarial deed of May 16, 1974, as amended
from time to time;
(n) "PANN Policy Statement" means PANN's Policy Statement
Memorandum approved by PANN's Dewan Komisaris on April 12, 1976,
as amended from time to time;
(0) "PTBA Charter" means the articles of incorporation of
PTBA authenticated by notarial deed of March 2, 1981, as
amended from time to time; and
(p) "Completion Date" means, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the completion date of the Project which shall be
the date as of which the Bank is satisfied with evidence provided


﻿4-
the Borrower that all of the following conditions have been met:
(i) physical construction of all of the facilities included in the
Project has been completed; (ii) for a continuous period of twelve
months, the mine included in the Project has produced at least
2.4 million tons per year of coal meeting the specifications set
forth in the coal sales agreement, and the transport system
included in the Project has carried at least 2.0 million tons
per year; and (iii) PTBA has a long-term debt:equity ratio of at
least 60:40.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred eighty-five million dollars ($185,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to pay the principal amount of the
S-9 Loan then withdrawn and outstanding and to pay all unpaid
interest and other charges thereon.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)   with respect to Parts A through G of the Project procure-
ment of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the PTBA
Project Agreement; and
(b) with respect to Part H of the Project procurement of
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) (i) The Borrower shall carry out Part H of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, engineering and financial prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, sevices and other resources required for the purpose; and
(ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
PTBA, PJKA and PANN to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the respective Project Agreements all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable PTBA, PJKA and PANN to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. To
this end, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient funds to cover
the expenditures required for the Project shall be made available
to PTBA, PJKA, PANN and POKKORLAK in a timely manner.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan avail-
able to PTBA and PANN under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and PTBA and PANN, respectively,
under terms and conditions which are satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the


﻿-6-
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or
waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan avail-
able to PJKA and to POKKORLAK in accordance with its budgetary
procedures, and shall ensure that POKKORLAK has the necessary
facilities, services and staff to carry out its role under the
Project.                                   0
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the terms and condi-
tions of the sale and delivery of the coal from the Bukit Asam
Mine to the Suralaya Power Plant and the mine mouth power plant
to be contained in a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, between
PTBA and PLN. Such contract shall include, inter alia, the
following provisions: the cost of steam coal delivered to Suralaya
will be set at a price which will cover all production costs in-
cluding overhead and administration costs, handling costs, land
and sea transportion costs and insurance and produce an annual
return to PTBA on revalued net assets acquired for the Project
of not less than thirteen per cent (13%), subject to the con-
dition that such price would not be (1) higher than the long-term
contract price for steam coal in the world market adjusted for
coal quality and accounting for transportation and handling costs
to Suralaya, or (2) lower than 80% of such contract price.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out its plan to ensure
a firm and steady interim power supply for mining operations.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall inform the Bank,
in a timely manner, that such land and rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part H of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in
accordance with principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for its respective Part
of the Project against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan for its respective Part of the Project to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules
for its respective part of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of its respective
Part of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in its
respective Part of the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular inter-
vals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning its respective Part of the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿- 8 -
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
its respective Part of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of its respective Part
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the 'Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-9-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institution
performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabiliza-
tion fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) PTBA, PJKA or PANN shall have failed to perform any
covenant, agreement or obligation of such entity under the
respective Project Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall have taken any action for the dis-
solution or disestablishment of PTBA, PJKA or PANN or for the
suspension of the operations of any of them, without having
obtained the prior concurrence of the Bank;
(c) PTBA or PANN shall have become unable to pay its debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
any of them or by others whereby any of the property of any of them
shall or may be distributed among the respective creditors;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that PTBA, PJKA or PANN will be able to
perform its obligations under its respective Project Agreement;
(e) the PANN Charter or the PANN Policy Statement shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to materially and adversely affect the financial condition
or the operations of PANN;
Cf) the PTBA Charter shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely
affect the financial conditions or the operations of PTBA; and


﻿- 10 -
(g) (i) Subject co subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to with%raw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and PTBA, PJKA or PANN as the case may be; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and
(g) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) each Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PTBA and PANN respectively; and


﻿- 11 -
(b) a Letter of Intent satisfactory to the Bank for the coal
sales contract referred to in Section 3.02 shall have been signed
by PTBA and PLN.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Sectior, 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that each Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by PTBA, PJKA and PANN, respectively, and is legally
binding upon PTBA, PJKA and PANN, respectively, in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that each Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PTBA and PANN, respec-
tively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PTBA and
PANN, respectively, in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date Aprilo2R, 1982, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following a,dresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for
International Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN JKT 45799
Jakarta                          DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319


﻿- 12 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Byis
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment                     51,100,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Consultants'                  75,700,000
services and
training
(a) locally                                    100%
hired
(b) other                                      100% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Coal explora-                  5,000,000        100% of foreign
tion and                                       expenditures
engineering
(4) Refinancing of                10,000,000        100%
S-9 Loan
(5) Unallocated                   43,200,000
TOTAL        185,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$9,000,000 may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
October 1, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and 'ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures therev-ider shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will provide indigenous coal as fuel for the
dual-fired power plant being built at Suralaya on the west coast
of Java and assistance and training. The Project consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:
1.   Expansion of the existing coal mine at Bukit Asam, an
open pit mine employing a bucket wheel excavator system,
to provide for an output of approximately three million
tons of coal per year; including, inter alia, construc-
tion of related roads, workshops, warehouses, office
buildings and power lines, installation of a communica-
tions system and provision of equipment, materials and
vehicles.
2.   Development of a coal mine at Muara Tiga, including,
inter alia, construction of related roads, workshops,
office buildings, power line and provision of equip-
ment, materials and vehicles.
Part B:   Expansion of the existing mining community under Part
A.1 and its facilities, including, inter alia, construc-
tion of new houses, roads and water supply and electri-
cal distribution systems.
Part C:
1.   Upgrading existing railroad track and bridges on the
Tanjung Enim - Muara Enim - Prabumulih-Panjang section
to allow 18-ton axle loads, and upgrading of the Muara
Enim - Lahat section.
2.   Construction of a new approximately 800 m rail line
to the mine site under Part A.1 and a new approximately
6.5 km rail line from the existing line at Panjang
to the terminal site at Tarahan, both including new
bridges.
3.   Upgrading the existing railroad system on the southern
network to Panjang by extending and improving the motive


﻿- 16 -
power and rolling stock repair facilities at Lahat and
Tanjung Karang, by improving the signalling system,
by establishing a telecommunications link, and by
providing, inter alia, new sidings and extensions of
existing sidings, about 15 new 1500 hp diesel locomo-
tives, about 265 coal wagons, two auxiliary cranes and
rehabilitating about 135 existing coal wagons.
Part D:   Construction of a new coal loading terminal at Tarahan
(6.5 km south of Panjang on Lampung Bay) to handle an
initial volume of about 2.4 million tons of coal per
year, including, inter alia, a railway car dumper,
conveyor facilities, a fixed stacker and a ship loader
and marine works.
Part E:   Construction, equipping and outfitting a self unloading
special-purpose ship of about 9,200 dwt to carry about
2.4 million tons of coal per year from the Tarahan
terminal (Part D above) across the Sunda Strait to the
Suralaya power plant.
Part F:   Rehabilitation of the coal terminal at Kertapati on the
Musi River upstream from Palembang.
Part G:   Strengthening POKKORLAK, PTBA, PJKA and the operation of
the ship referred to in Part E above by, inter alia,
providing consultants' services and training.
Part H:   Studies and prefeasibility work with respect to coal
exploration.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning June 1, 1987
through   June 1, 2001                     6,165,000
On December 1, 2001                             6,215,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on lepayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                  3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.40%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                            9.30%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                           10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                 11.60%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:.
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Indonesia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 21 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods estimated to cost (a) $50,000 equiva-
lent or less may be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping,
and (b) more than $50,000 equivalent but less than $300,000
equivalent may be awarded on the basis of limited international
tendering; provided that the aggregate amount of such contracts
does not exceed $750,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 22 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 2        day of   M   , 198 ..
FOR SECRETARY


