Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                       c L    t
Report No. 2698b-DO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
November 29, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit             =     Peso (RD$)
US$1.00                   =     RD$1.00
RD$1 million              =     US$1 million
System of Weights and Measures
Metric                          British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)               =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (sq m)    =      0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =     1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AADT        Annual Average Daily Traffic
AASHO       American Association of State HdLghway Officials
ASTM        American Society for Testing Materials
B/C         Benefit/Cost
CEA         Sugar State Council
DGC         General Directorate of Highways
DGCV        General Directorate of Rural Roads
DGPP        General Directorate of Planning and Programing
DGT         General Directorate of Transportation
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
ONAPLAN     National Planning Office
SEOPC       Secretary of State for Public Works and Communications
TPU         Training Production Unit
VPD         Vehicles per day
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICtAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............                                   1
A.   General ...........................................         1
B.   The Transport System ... . ........ ... ... .  ..............  2
C.   Planning, Coordination and Financing ....       ..........  5
D.   Recent Sector Improvement and Recommended
Developments ....... .................                    7
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .....  ...................                 8
A.   The Highway Network         *................* ..............  8
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic ........         9
C.   The Road Transport Industry             .. . .             10
D.   Highway Administration         ............. ..............    12
E.   Highway Planning ......        ...........................    12
F.   Highway Financing .......      ..........................    13
G.   Highway Engineering . ..............................    14
H.   Highway Construction .................. . ...........    14
I.   Highway Maintenance ....     ............................    15
J.   Rural Roads ....        ...................................    17
III.   PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR   18
IV.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT ...    ...................    20
A.   Objectives, Long-Term Framework and General
Description ..................      ...................    20
B.   Project Components and Requirements          ...............   23
C.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement   . .    29
D.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring .............   32
E.   Project Risks .............        ........................    34
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION           ....................................    35
A.   Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Programs   ......   35
B.   Pilot Rural Roads Program .............   ............    39
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...............    ...    42
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Dominican Republic during May/June 1979. The mission comprised
Messrs. J. Veniard (Senior Economist), L. Revuelta (Engineer), S. Kowalski
(Engineer), G. Morra (Training Specialist), G. Segerlund (YP), and N. Kliver
(Consultant). The report has been edited by Miss V.R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES
1.1   Summary of Foreign and Passenger Traffic by Mode .... ......    46
1.2   The Highway Network .......................................    47
1.3   Transport Infrastructure Investment by Mode in Comparison
with Total Public Sector Infrastructure Investment   ......    48
1.4  Estimate of Transport Sector Expenditures ....      .............    49
2.1   Vehicle Fuel Consumption ..................................    50
2.2   Vehicle Registration ......................................    51
2.3   Vehicle Weight Control ....................................    52
2.4   Estimates of Highway Expenditures and Road Users'
Contribution ............................................     53
2.5   SEOPC's Design Standards ..................................    54
4.1   Five-Year Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Programs
(1980-1984)         .............................................    55
4.2   Tranche of Reconstruction Program Included under the
Project   .................................................    56
4.3   Tranche of Reconstruction Program to be Engineered under
the Project .............................................    57
4.4   Tentative List and Cost Estimate of Equipment for Highway
Maintenance and Personnel Training ......................    58
4.5   Tentative Rural Roads Construction Program (1980-1982)  ....    59
4.6   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements .......................    60
4.7   Schedule of Implementation ................................    61
5.1   Road Reconstruction Program (2 pages) .....................  62-63
5.2   Reconstruction Components .................................    64
5.3   Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs ........................    65
5.4   Summary of Maintenance Program and Reconstruction Project
Economic Evaluation .....................................    66
5.5   Pilot Rural Roads Program, Results of Economic Evaluation..    67
ANNEXES
1. Outline Terms of Reference for Civil Works Supervision
of Reconstruction Program ..............................      68
2. Outline Organization and Staffing of the Road
Reconstruction Planning Unit ...........................      70
3. Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
for the Maintenance Program ............................      72
4. Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
for the Personnel Training Program .....................      79
5. Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
for the Pilot Rural Roads Program ......................      94
6.  Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Model ....     ............    103
7.  Economic Benefits of Pilot Rural Roads Program ....   ..        105
8.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File       111
CHART
World Bank 20650 - Organization Chart of the Secretariat of
State for Public Works and Communications
MAP
IBRD 14492 - Dominican Republic - Second Road Maintenance
and Reconstruction Project



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      The Dominicar. Republic comprises the eastern two-thirds of the
Caribbean 2Island Hispaniola, which it shares with Haiti. It has an area of
48,400 km and a population of 5.4 million; during the last decade, the popu-
lation has grown at a rate of about 3% per annum. The Republic is crossed by
four mountain ranges separated by fertile valleys. The bulk of the population
is located in the Cibao Valley, the most productive area, running from north
to south through the central part of the country and linking Santo Domingo,
the capital city (980,000 inhabitants), with Santiago, the second main town
(245,000 inhabitants), and with Puerto Plata (40,000 inhabitants) on the
Atlantic Coast. The very dry, relatively undeveloped southwestern part of
the country is sparsely populated.
1.02      The Dominican Republic relies for its transportation upon an exten-
sive road network, several ports, an international airport, and various rail-
way lines. International freight traffic is handled at nine ports, but most
of the activity is concentrated in Santo Domingo and its surroundings.
International passenger traffic is now almost exclusively handled at Santo
Domingo's international airport, Las Americas. International road transport
between Haiti and the Dominican Republic is negligible because of limited
trade volume and the poor condition of existing road connections.
1.03      Domestic transport includes the hauling of the main export products
to international ports and internal trade in agricultural and industrial
commodities. Because of the small size of the country, the location of its
resources and its economic structure, internal transport distances are short.
The main exports--sugar and minerals--are produced near ports and normally
require hauls of less than 100 km. Domestic trade is mainly in agricultural
products from the Cibao Valley and in industrial products and consumer goods
from Santo Domingo; their average haul distance is about 125 km. As a result
of these short haul distances, highway transport is the most widely used
mode, accounting for almost 99% of the total domestic transport of goods
(excluding sugarcane and sugar products) and passengers. The railway system
provides mainly freight transport for sugarcane and sugar products, which
account for about 60% of the total domestic ton-km (Table 1.1).
1.04      The transport system in the country is broadly adequate, and, although
the road network is not dense, it provides access to all major producing areas,
reflecting past Government objectives of improving the physical infrastructure
of the country. However, as the emphasis on transport sector investments
declined in recent years, inadequate funding of operations and maintenance
of the physical facilities resulted in the present poor condition of the
system. The need for road rehabilitation, in particular, is acute. This
need has been recognized by the Government, which considers rehabilitation
and its complement, preventive maintenance, to be of the highest priority,
matched by the high priority given to the construction and improvement of
rural access roads, upon which future agricultural growth depends. The
confirmation of these priorities as the policy of the present administration



-2-
is in line with the recommendations of the Bank, whose assistance in the
implementation of a Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Program constitutes
the basic component of the proposed project.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Highways and Road Transport
1.05      Roads are concentrated mostly in the center of the country, around
the axis joining Santo Domingo with Santiago, the center of the richest agri-
cultural area; a dense road network also exists in the east, the sugarcane-
producing area.  Although the highway network of the Dominican Republic as
a whole is not very dense (0.2 km/km ) in comparison with that of similar
Caribbean countries, 1/ it gives access to all the major production areas.
The adequate highway network, together with a very high economic growth (GNP
per capita has more than doubled during the last decade), has strongly stimu-
lated the development of the Republic's vehicle fleet, which grew at 11.8%
yearly over the period 1968-1978. The present status of road freight and
passenger transport is discussed in Chapter II.
1.06      Government investments in the highway subsector have averaged US$35
million p.a. over the period 1970-1978, extending the network to its present
length of about 11,900 km. About 5,100 km constitute the national system, of
which some 4,600 km are paved. The 5,800 km outside the national system are
classified as feeder roads (Table 1.2). Since the size of the national system
is basically adequate in coverage, construction of additional highways is not
high priority at present. However, the condition of the national network is not
satisfactory. Nearly one-half of the roads are badly deteriorated, and, because
of their inadequate design and poor construction, they are obsolete and not
amenable to maintenance. This obsolescence is observed in platforms of irregular
and insufficient width, not providing for adequate drainage, and in lightly built
pavement. The feeder road network is also in poor condition and in need of
improvement. These subjects are discussed in full in Chapter II.
(ii) Ports
1.07      There are nine international ports, four cabotage ports and two
tourist ports in the Dominican Republic. The main ports are Santo Domingo
and Haina in the south and Puerto Plata in the north; these three ports handle
almost 60% (3.7 million tons in 1976) of all imports and exports combined,
excluding petroleum products. Haina handles most of the country's petroleum
1/   Jamaica 1.4; Trinidad and Tobago 1.2.



-3-
imports, i.e., about 1.7 million tons. Santo Domingo takes care of a large
part of imported goods, while about one-third of total exports (mineral) pass
through the mineral-specialized port of Pedernales in the southwest, close to
Haiti. Puerto Plata handles mostly exports of agricultural products from the
Cibao Valley. Main export commodities handled at these ports ±-clude raw
sugar (970,000 tons in 1976), molasses (250,000 tons), bauxite (630,000 tons),
ferronickel (70,000 tons), and other agricultural products (150,000 tons).
1.08      Most of the ports have not been modernized or adequately maintained.
Port congestion is a serious problem, as is the interface with other transport
modes. The port of Haina is being improved, financed in part by the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB). The project includes a three-berth container
facility, container cranes and truck scales, river channeling, marine struc-
tures, navaids, dredging to 35 feet and a dry dock. The total cost is esti-
mated to be about US$48.0 million, and the work is planned to be completed
by 1981. The port has been selected to handle most of the import/export cargo
now shipped through Santo Domingo, which would relieve Santo Domingo and make
the southern ports' capacity acceptable until the 1990s. In the north,
although the overall capacity of Puerto Plata is adequate, there are plans
to construct a jetty to allow better capacity balancing of the existing
facilities.
1.09      Most of the imported and exported goods are carried by foreign-owned
vessels which are, in most cases, represented by national agents. At present,
there are only eight nationally registered ships of 2,550 DWT, each engaged
mainly in cabotage. The coastal shipping is rather limited; a large part of
the 80,000-100,000 tons being transported is gypsum carried by barge from
Barahona to Santo Domingo. This traffic is too small to be considered for
special installations; however, since it may increase in the future, adequate
statistical collection to prepare forecasts is needed to plan for secondary
port improvements.
(iii) Air Transport
1.10      A fourfold increase in tourism to the Dominican Republic since 1970
has contributed to a strong expansion in the country's international air
transport service. International passenger traffic increased rapidly from
about 400,000 in 1970 to one million in 1978. At present, there are three 1/
operating international airports in the Dominican Republic. Santo Domingo's
international airport, Las Americas, is by far the most important, accounting
for 99% of passenger traffic and 95% of cargo traffic. Eight foreign carriers
are providing regular service to Las Americas airport. There are also two
Dominican carriers in the international field, Dominicana de Aviacion and
Alas del Caribe. Dominicana de Aviacion, which operates entirely interna-
tionally, is the principal air carrier, with over 30% of the total interna-
tional traffic. Alas del Caribe operates international as well as domestic
routes and accounts for about 10% of the international traffic. A new airport
is being constructed at the tourist area of Puerto Plata (financed under the
1/   Las Americas, La Romana and Punta Cana (under construction).



-4-
Puerto Plata Tourism Project, Loan 1051-DO) and is scheduled for completion
in late 1979 at an estimated total cost of US$9.8 million. This airport is
expected to handle about 20% of the total international passenger traffic.
1.11      Domestic air traffic is still very limited (40,000 passengers/1978)
because of the small size of the country and the adequate road network. There
is, however, some demand for domestic air transport because of the very poor
condition of certain roads and the inaccessibility of certain regions. There
are eight domestic airports in the country 1/ as well as 15 minor airports and
20 landing fields. Alas del Caribe is the only air carrier with scheduled
domestic flights.
(iv) Railways
1.12      The railway network encompasses approximately 1,600 km.  The network
can be divided into four categories: the semi-autonomous sugarcane railways;
the private sugarcane railways; the other natural resources railways; and the
State Railway. The semi-autonomous and the private railways play an important
role in internal transport since they handle about 60% of the total freight
tonnages carried (mainly sugarcane and sugar products) within the country.
About 80% of the sugarcane production, some 9 million tons, is transported by
railways throughout the harvest period of 180 to 200 days. Of this tonnage,
some 64% is moved by the semi-autonomous railways and 36% by the private
railways. Sugarcane transport is carried by ox-carts, and more recently by
tractor-carts, from the field to the railway sidings. In some instances,
when field to factory distance is less than 5 km, the tractor-carts go directly
to the mill yard. This over-the-road transport, plus truck hauling from areas
where no railway is available, accounts for the remaining 20% of total tonnage
which is not carried by the railways. Since this road transport is largely
responsible for the observed vehicle axle load overweight in the country, a
proposed vehicle axle load and dimension study (under IDB financing, para 2.15)
would investigate the implications of high axle loads from large, low pressure-
tired sugar carts on regulation limits and perhaps recommend special exemptions
for this traffic.
1.13      The semi-autonomous sugarcane railways are owned and operated by the
Sugar State Council (CEA) plantations. CEA, a Government organization, owns
nine railways, of which the Haina railway, with 300 km of line, is the most
extensive. The Sugar Rehabilitation Project, approved by the Board on October
18, 1979, provides for the rehabilitation of some 540 km of tracks owned by
these railways and for the purchase of three additional locomotives and 150
cars. This component of the project would cost US$21.5 million, of which the
Bank would finance some US$12.7 million, including contingencies. These
investments are expected to substantially improve the efficiency of the
transport link between the sugar fields and the factories, providing enough
capacity to meet the planned increased demand.
1/   Puerto Plata, Arroyo Barril, Sabana de la Mar, Higuey, Herrera, Barahona,
Cabo Rojo and San Juan.



- 5 -
1.14      The private sugarcane railways are operated and maintained by the
sugar plantations and are specialized industrial carriers. Four railways fall
into this class, with a total of some 600 km of track, of which Gulf and
Western's La Romana railway owns 400 km. These railways are generally well
equipped and apparently have adequate capacity. The other natural resources
railways are specialized industrial railways with short trackage (60 km):
the Manzanillo line to transport bananas for export, the Barahona line to
transport salt and gypsum to port, and the Falconbridge line for internal
mining transportation. The three lines are well maintained and operated and
present no capacity constraints.
1.15      The only state railway in the country is the insignificant La Vega-
Sanchez railway. This line, with headquarters in Sanchez, is headed by an
Administrator reporting to the Secretary of State for Public Works and
Communications (SEOPC). The line, substantially deteriorated over the years,
has not reached La Vega since 1974. In fact, since 1976, it has operated only
to Rincon Molinillos, some 30 km west of Sanchez. At present, there is only
one train performing two daily passenger services between these two points.
The Government subsidy to the line amounts to US$120,000 p.a. This amount
is not unreasonable in view of the service provided to some 100,000 passengers
per year.
1.16      Traffic in the corridor between Santo Domingo and Santiago is the
heaviest in the country. As part of the feasibility studies for the proposed
Duarte Highway motorway, an alternative railway solution was investigated.
This new railway, using some existing lines and right-of-way (particularly
85 km of the Haina-Cevicos line) proved the least favorable of all possible
highway alternatives because of its inability to divert passenger traffic
from the proposed highway (since the railway would not be able to provide
a service competitive, in frequency and travel time, with the road transport),
and its relatively minor impact--less than 10% of the total--in diverting
freight traffic (offering higher door-to-door transport cost) over this rela-
tively short distance, i.e., 160 km.
(v) Pipelines
1.17      There are some 80 km of pipelines in the country, all operated and
maintained by the private sector. The longest line brings crude oil from the
port of Haina to Falconbridge (71 km), where it is used in the processing of
ferronickel ore. The other lines are operated by oil companies. There are
no plans to increase the present system.
C.   Planning, Coordination and Financing
(i) Planning and Coordination
1.18      Investment decisions for most public transport expenditures are made
by the Office of the Presidency in its National Planning Office (ONAPLAN).
ONAPLAN is responsible for sectoral planning, taking into account the plans
prepared by the agencies. However, lack of Government capacity for conducting



-6-
transport sector planning and coordination, and resulting policy formulation,
led SEOPC in the past to seek the assistance of foreign consultants. In 1973,
a Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study (under UNDP financing) was
prepared by consultants Lamarre Valois International (Canada), with the Bank
acting as executing agency. In 1978, a Technical-Economic Transport Sector
Study (under IDB financing) was prepared by consultants DELCANDA International
(Canada). These studies, particularly the second, contained a survey of the
sector and identified high priority studies needed to provide a basis for
adequate planning. The potential benefit of good diagnosis was somewhat
counteracted by insufficient in-house capacity to carry out planning and
policy formulation on a continuing basis. The very nature of these turn-key
studies, conducted somewhat in isolation, militated against the development
within the Government, and particularly at SEOPC, of adequate planning capacity.
1.19      Additionally, the weakness of the transport planning and coordina-
tion system can be traced, up to 1978, to a lack of willingness to undertake
explicit planning on a continuous basis. This shortcoming results in the lack
of adequate institutional arrangements, the ad hoc approach to project selection,
the absence of statistics and systematized data collection for transport
planning, and, until recently, the failure to include economic feasibility
considerations in the formulation of investment programs. Furthermore, the
capacity of SEOPC to carry out these tasks has been limited by its inability
to attract and retain qualified staff, caused, in part, by the low salaries
paid.
1.20      The transport sector does not present major issues of intermodal
coordination and planning, and the lack of planning has not resulted in any
large misallocation of resources. The present administration intends to
implement a modern personnel administration system and to strengthen planning,
particularly in the highway mode. The establishment by SEOPC of a Road
Reconstruction Planning Unit and the formulation of the Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Programs, both integral parts of this project, would be the
base for the improvement of planning in the highway mode, which, at this time,
constitutes an urgent need in view, particularly, of the ambitious public
investment program and the difficult situation of public finances.
(ii) Financing
1.21      Government investment in the transport sector is budgeted by the modal
agencies, which submit their annual budgets to the Office of the Presidency.
Public expenditures have been an important determinant of the nation's economic
development. In particular, public sector capital investments have been rela-
tively high in the recent past (from 8.6% of GDP to 6.5% between 1971 and 1975).
Improving the physical infrastructure of the country has been one of the main
objectives of the Government, devoting to it its own high level of savings.
However, this emphasis on public works has not been so intense in the transport
sector, where it showed a steady decline.



-7-
1.22      Public sector expenditures in transportation (which include capital
investments, as well as maintenance and operations) for 1971-1976 averaged
about 11% of all public sector expenditures, a relatively low figure. Further-
more, most of the expenditures in transportation were capital investments not
matched by adequate funding of operations and maintenance of the physical
facilities, which ended, in many cases, in poor condition and in need of
rehabilitation. Government expenditures in the transport sector follow the
same modal distribution as traffic, with the highway subsector accounting for
the largest portion (about 80% of the total on the average for the last eight
years). Transport investments are shown in Table 1.3 and expenditures, by
mode, are shown in Table 1.4. For the period 1980-1982, it is estimated that,
on the basis of the Government Development Plan, the transport sector's share
of public investments will remain stable at about 15%.
D.   Recent Sector Improvements and Recommended Developments
1.23      The administration which took office in August 1978 is in the
process of formulating its goals for the sector. The Transport Sector Study
prepared by DELCANDA International is obviously the strongest background docu-
ment for Government followup. From its recommendations for studies, policies
and preliminary project investment identification, the Government is selecting
a few for early implementation, among which studies such as the vehicle axle
load and dimension regulations and the administrative reorganization of SEOPC
are the most important. Among the preliminary investments identified, the
countrywide list of road rehabilitation priorities is being used as a base
for the Government's 1980-1984 five-year reconstruction program. In the port
subsector, the study recommendations for the construction of a new port at
Haina and expansion works at Puerto Plata are also being followed.
1.24      A Government investment plan for the years 1980-1982 has recently
been proposed by ONAPLAN. It contains recommendations for transport project
investments, broadly following those proposed in the Transport Sector Study.
These projects, with a total cost estimated at RD$ 362 million, would require
disbursements of RD$ 262 million in the 1980-1982 period as follows:
(a) Highways: Implementation of a high priority program for highway
reconstruction, strengthening of maintenance capacity and improve-
ment of the feeder road network, with a total three-year invest-
ment of RD$ 110 million; rehabilitation and widening of the end
sections of the Duarte Highway, with estimated investments of RD$ 50
million (the latter element shows adequate return but could be
postponed at lesser economic cost than the rehabilitation works).
(b) Ports: Continuation of the Haina construction and expansion
(breakwater) of Puerto Plata, demanding investments in the period
estimated at RD$ 51 million.
(c) Air Transport and Other: Purchase of aircraft for flag carrier
Dominicana, buildings and other unidentified transport sector
investments, totaling RD$ 51 million.



- 8 -
This investment plan is now under consideration by the Government and has
been presented to the Bank. The proposed project constitutes the starting
point for the implementation of a first phase of the Road Reconstruction and
Maintenance Program proposed in the plan.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
2.01      Development of the highway network has been discussed in paragraphs
1.05 and 1.06. The present system provides adequate access to all major towns
and producing areas of the country. The basic network consists of three trunk
highways radiating from Santo Domingo: the Duarte Highway to the north
(263 km), the Sanchez Highway to the west (193 km) and the Mella Highway to
the east (75 km).
2.02      The size of the national system is adequate for the present level of
economic activity, and construction of additional highways is therefore not of
high priority (para 1.06). However, the condition of the network is not satis-
factory. Some 2,000 km or 45% of the paved roads have reached a degree of
obsolescence and deteriorated to the point where preventive maintenance is no
longer meaningful. Such roads need reconstruction/rehabilitation on the basis
of full engineering studies and modern pavement design. Since the substratum
is obsolete, resealing or resurfacing would not last. In the meantime, the
correct policy consists of ad hoc maintenance and inclusion of patching and
graveling to ensure a minimum level of service.
2.03      Future economic growth of the country depends upon facilitating access
to arable areas in order to increase agricultural production. The need to
improve and expand the feeder roads system by larger investments in construc-
tion and maintenance as well as by improved planning and supervision was
recognized by the DELCANDA study. Given the high level of unemployment and
underemployment in the rural areas, the advantage of using labor-intensive
construction methods was also indicated. The present administration has
recognized the importance of investing in feeder roads and the need for better
coordination and planning. The General Directorate of Feeder Roads of SEOPC
was given more authority in the area of feeder roads when the Technical
Secretariat of the Presidency greatly reduced its former active participation
in the field. The General Directorate of Feeder Roads has two projects
currently under preparation which would be financed by IDB and USAID respec-
tively. With this relatively strong external support for construction of
feeder roads, the role of the Bank should be to develop planning and construc-
tion methods and to test the potential of labor-based technologies.



- 9 -
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
(i) Road Traffic
2.04      About one-half of the principal products moved in the country and
almost all the passengers are carried by road. This is reflected in relatively
high traffic density, which shows that, of the national network, some 10% of
the length carries over 3,000 vehicles per day and nearly 35% of the length
carries over 1,000 vehicles per day. Estimates of traffic growth on the Duarte
Highway, which is an indicator for overall transport demand, shows traffic
increasing by 10-12% per year between 1967 and 1975. 1/ General indicators,
such as the annual growth of vehicle fuel consumption (Table 2.1) and vehicle
registration, show trends that are relatively consistent with the estimated
traffic growth rates for 1967-1977. Of the total volume of main commodities
carried over the road in 1976, sugar accounted for 11%, bananas 11%, milk 5%,
rice and yuca 3% each, and other agricultural products 13%; processed food
accounted for 15%, cement 8%, chemicals 4% and other industrial products 8%;
ore products 10%, gypsum 2% and other mineral products 7%.
2.05      The latest SEOPC countrywide surveys (1978) indicate that the Annual
Average Daily Traffic (AADT) ranges from 2,468 on paved roads to about 300-600
on gravel and earth roads (Table 1.2). Traffic by vehicle type is dominated
on all surfaces by light vehicles and pickups. However, while light vehicles
and pickups account for 59% and 29% respectively of the traffic on paved roads,
their share is fairly even on gravel and earth roads, 40% and 45% respectively.
2.06      SEOPC's traffic counts (1978) on the four main roads of the network
indicate that the highest traffic volumes are found on the Duarte Highway
from Santo Domingo to Villa Altagracia, 45 km (AADT 8,000) and from La Vega
to Jose Biseno, 55 km (AADT 7,000). AADT on the Sanchez Highway from San
Cristobal to Azua, 90 km, ranges from 3,000 to 4,400, and, on the Mella Highway
from Santo Domingo to San Pedro, it ranges from 500 to 5,500. Las Americas
Parkway, also to San Pedro, provides access to Las Americas Airport and runs
parallel to the Mella Highway; it has an AADT of 6,000 from Santo Domingo to
the airport.
(ii) The Vehicle Fleet
2.07      Vehicle registration, shown in Table 2.2, indicates that the annual
growth rate has slowed down to 8.5% since 1975, from an all-time high level of
13.7% p.a. between 1967 and 1974. A large part of the increase represents growth
in passenger cars and light truck registration. The vehicle fleet is composed
of 64% passenger cars, 34% trucks and 2% buses. A specific feature of the
passenger car composition is the large share of the fleet, around 30%, used
for public services. About 63% of all trucks are of a pickup type, 34% are
medium-sized trucks and 3% are classified as heavy trucks. The bus fleet
consists predominantly of small minibuses (65%). The whole fleet is unevenly
distributed over the country; 60% of all registered vehicles are in the cities
of Santo Domingo and Santiago.
1/   Frederic R. Harris, "Informe del Estudio de Factibilidad y Diseno
Preliminar - Via Terrestre - Santo Domingo - Santiago, 1976."



- 10 -
C.   The Road Transport Industry
(i) Freight
2.08      The trucking industry is divided into a large number of single-
vehicle owners on one side and a few multi-vehicle companies on the other.
Single-vehicle owners account for about 98% of the medium and heavy trucking
fleet, which totals 17,000 units. Many single-vehicle owners are associated
in cooperatives. There are five multi-vehicle companies with six to 40 vehicles.
Freight markets are divided along the same lines: single-vehicle owners
transporting products from rural areas to cities (using mainly pickups) and
between cities (using medium-sized trucks), and the multi-vehicle companies
(using predominantly heavy trucks) for intercity transport. The transport
sector study (DELCANDA) confirmed the Lamarre Valois Study findings that
most trucks have a very low load factor, especially the small vehicles.
Estimates of the average load factor for pickups and light trucks for a
number of sampled roads range between 0.12 and 0.38 respectively.
2.09      Rates and tariffs are regulated by SEOPC's General Directorate of
Transportation (DGT). In practice, however, the enforcement of the tariff
regulation is lax, with rates charged about 25% higher than the official
tariff. Since the market is strongly competitive, this discrepancy shows
that the official tariff is set too low. Single-vehicle owners usually
have very low or non-existent profit margins even after applying the market
rates, which limits the funds for maintenance and vehicle renewal. On the
other hand, larger companies with substantially higher load factors and a
modern vehicle fleet have a relatively good return on investment; the
1975-1976 period gave a rate of return of 14%, which, at present, has
doubled to 28%. Beyond tariffs, Government intervention in road transport
has been minimal. Truckers operate freely over routes which they select,
but under the obligation of annual registration and vehicle inspection.
Additional control, exerted by the Directorate of Transportation, is
basically limited to provisions for maximum weight and size for all cargo
vehicles.
2.10      Single-vehicle owners, who are generally ready to operate with very
low profit margins, create a highly competitive environment with one another
and with the larger trucking companies. From the freight industry supply
side, this situation might have resulted in a not very efficient fleet (as
shown by the small capacity of many units and the low load factors), but it
has certainly satisfied the needs of the country, particularly in its ability
to reach all areas and to provide the needed services. Since the services are
competitive and responsive to the demand, savings in vehicle operating costs
due to the improved road conditions would, within a relatively short time, be
passed on to users.
(ii) Passengers
2.11      Approximately 180 interurban transport buses provide a frequency of
between 1.3 and 2.3 bus trips per day in one direction per 10,000 inhabitants.
The frequency varies greatly depending on the city's distance from Santo
Domingo. Generally, all cities with more than 8,000 people are connected
with bus service. The bus operators represent private companies or unions;



85% of all bus operators are located in Santo Domingo. The tariffs, which
are calculated by the operators and published, are generally very competitive
at an average level of USc1.25 per pass/km. Maintenance of the buses by the
private companies is good in contrast with the poor maintenance by the unions.
Licenses and regulations for bus operators are minimal. The regulations basic-
ally contain provision for the licensee to operate on a speciric route, for
annual vehicle inspection and for compulsory insurance. Since there is no
franchise system, any operator may obtain a license for a particular route.
2.12      In addition, approximately 40 agencies operate an average of 50 inter-
urban public passenger cars each that run from Santo Domingo to cities in the
interior. All cities with more than 500 people have regular public passenger
car services from Santo Domingo at an average tariff which is about 30-50%
higher than the tariffs of buses. These services generally operate, at the
driver's discretion, on a door-to-door basis. A similar system, but with a
lower quality of service, is provided inter-regionally by public vehicles
("conchos"). There are four classes of public vehicles: automobiles, mini-
buses, jeeps and pickups; they operate under variable tariffs between cities
and travel on pre-established routes only. Licenses and regulations do not
exist for public vehicles, and insurance is not required by law.
2.13      Although the interurban passenger system relies heavily on light
passenger cars and only marginally on buses, it provides a service that has
met the needs of the demand. It reaches most places in the country with fast
service and at reasonable tariffs. However, it imposes a cost to the country
by adding to the congestion on some of the truck routes and, particularly, by
not reaching the economies of scale, especially in fuel consumption, that
buses would achieve. Some increases in bus activity on heavily trafficked
routes have been seen in the last years, but a more accelerated process would
be desirable. The drivers' unions and the owners of public cars are the main
opponents of these developments as their labor-intensive form of transporta-
tion is replaced by large capacity buses.
(iii) Vehicle Weight and Dimension Regulations
2.14      Three weighing stations were installed by SEOPC on the Duarte, Mella
and Sanchez Highways in 1972, and two more are now under construction (Table 2.3).
When all five stations are fully operational, it will be possible to monitor the
majority of trucks in the country for weight control. However, at present,
trucks are inspected only for compliance with the total weight regulations, not
for axle load or vehicle dimensions, because of the absence of a clearly defined
permissible axle load. Although, in the past, roads were designed for a 9-ton
axle limit, recent projects such as the proposed Duarte Highway and the road
rehabilitation component of the proposed project used a 13-ton limit. Although
the short haul distances do not favor overloading, trucks with axle loads ex-
ceeding 13 tons are not uncommon, especially for bulk transport of sugarcane
and building materials.
2.15      To remedy the deficiency of existing regulations, the Government
agreed under Loan 1316T-DO to enact, by December 31, 1976, regulations
defining maximum vehicle axle loads and dimensions. The Government has lacked
an adequate basis to define appropriate limits considering the requirements of



- 12 -
special carts for short and medium haulage of sugarcane. It is now taking
steps to comply with the above covenant. Under an IDB Technical Cooperation
Project approved in October 1979, SEOPC will undertake a study for preparing
appropriate vehicle axle load and dimension regulations. The study is ex-
pected to be completed by December 1980. The preparation of a comprehensive
study of vehicle axle loads and dimensions is a substantial step toward
normalizing the present situation of uncertainty and complying with the
covenants of Loan 1316T-DO. To assure timely Government action on this
subject, a timetable was confirmed during negotiations for completion of
the study by December 31, 1980 and subsequent enacting, by June 30, 1981,
of appropriate vehicle axle load and dimension regulations.
D.   Highway Administration
2.16      SEOPC is responsible for programing, planning, designing, building
and maintaining primary, secondary and rural roads; regulating and policing
highway traffic; and controlling the public railway system. It is divided
into four Subsecretariats: (a) one is responsible for highway construction
and maintenance and for all surface transportation; (b) the second is in
charge of construction and maintenance of Government buildings; (c) the third
is responsible for telecommunications, the Post Office, public railways and
equipment; and (d) the fourth is responsible for administration (Chart 20650).
The Directorate of Planning and Programing is a separate entity directly under
the Secretary of SEOPC. At the present time, the Subsecretary responsible for
highways also acts as the Director of Planning.
2.17      SEOPC senior level personnel are generally experienced and capable.
The "permanent" or regular staff of SEOPC totals some 4,500, of which 2,200
work in the highway subsector (the rest working in telecommunications, public
buildings and the Post Office). The permanent staff, all appointed by the
Office of the Presidency, has been, particularly in recent years, supplemented
by "nominal staff" under the framework of efforts to alleviate unemployment.
This category allows SEOPC to contract personnel without intervention by the
Office of the Presidency. Currently, SEOPC has some 3,200 staff in this
category, of whom about 2,200 work in the highway subsector, with an obvious
redundancy of unqualified laborers. To correct this situation, the Sub-
secretariat for Administration is carrying out a census of all SEOPC employees,
collecting data regarding their current assignments, capabilities and adapt-
ability to perform other work, if necessary. This assessment will permit re-
classification of personnel, their retraining and their possible transfers to
more productive employment. It is expected that this work by the Subsecretariat
will constitute the first step necessary to rationalize the entire process of
manpower planning based on proper recruitment policies and better advancement
opportunities. Furthermore, an overall functional upgrading may help SEOPC in
its efforts to adjust wage scales to levels which may be competitive with those
of other sectors of the economy. Some of SEOPC's labor force would be assigned
to the hurricane reconstruction works.
E.   Highway Planning
2.18      Highway planning, as part of the transport planning activities, is
primarily the responsibility of SEOPC through its Directorate of Planning and
Programing. The development of this planning function within SEOPC still is,



- 13 -
however, in the formative stages. The effectiveness of the Directorate of
Planning has been limited by several factors, among which the lack of data,
the absence of systematic project selection criteria and the shortage of
qualified staff should be noted (paras 1.18 and 1.19).
2.19      The weakness of SEOPC in conducting highway planning on a continuing
basis led to the assistance, in 1973 and 1978, of foreign consultants in the
preparation of sectoral studies. The second of these studies, DELCANDA's
Transport Sector Study, remains the main source for highway investment plan-
ning. Its recommendations, together with those of the ongoing technical
assistance for road maintenance by consultant Roy Jorgensen (under Loan
1316T-DO), served as a basis for SEOPC's current 1980-1985 road reconstruction
and maintenance programs and also became the basis for the proposed project.
SEOPC took a very positive attitude during the formulation of the programs
and intends to strengthen the planning process, particularly in the highway
mode. An important step in that direction is the establishment by SEOPC of a
road reconstruction planning unit to be provided with technical assistance
under the project (para 4.11).
2.20      The need to improve road maintenance and to reconstruct the highway
network has been confirmed by the present administration, which declared this
work to be one of its high priority objectives. This decision resulted in the
current 1980-1984 road reconstruction and maintenance programs finally
formulated by SEOPC's Directorate of Planning with Bank assistance. Economic
considerations formed the basis for the concept of the road reconstruction
program as well as the resulting maintenance program (paras 5.01 to 5.05).
The maintenance program would provide for the periodic maintenance of the
part of the national network in acceptable condition, while those roads not
amenable to preventive maintenance would be brought under a program of re-
construction, of which some 750 km are included in the five-year program
(para 4.04). The program has been rescheduled and amplified in the initial
years to accommodate reconstruction of sections damaged by the recent hurricanes.
F.   Highway Financing
2.21      During the previous administration (1967-1978), SEOPC financed a
limited part of highway investments with its own funds. Several highway
projects were financed and implemented directly by the Office of the Presidency.
The present administration has decided that SEOPC shall be solely responsible
for highways and feeder roads. The Government, beginning with the 1979 budget,
has also decided to channel the plethora of earmarked revenues and special
funds into a consolidated fund to increase flexibility in appropriations of
funds. Long delays in accessibility to appropriated funds are very common.
2.22      Expenditures for the period 1970-1978 are shown in Table 2.4.  The
level of expenditure in 1978 is estimated to the equivalence of US$61.8 million.
Of this amount, recurrent expenditures for highway maintenance, periodic
improvement and administration absorb 17.5% of total highway expenditures.
Over the 1970-1978 period, US$4.6 million, or 1.4% of total highway expendi-
tures, was financed by external sources; the balance was provided by Government
funds. In the Government's Three-Year Plan (1980-1982), about 55%, or about
US$145 million of the total highway investments, is expected to be foreign-
financed.



- 14 -
2.23      Estimated contributions from road user charges are shown in Table 2.4.
On the average, the road user revenues (US$52.2 million p.a.) have been substan-
tially above total highway expenditures. It is estimated that, over the next
years, proceeds from road user charges would be adequate to support planned
expenditures for implementing the reconstruction and maintenance programs as
well as future outlays for construction. The most important revenue source
is the motor fuel tax, which accounts for about 50% of the road user charges.
The retail price of gasoline is US$1.25 per US gallon, of which 32% is tax,
and US$0.67 per US gallon for diesel fuel, of which 7.5% is tax. The other
two important revenue sources are vehicle registration fees and import duties
on vehicles. These two sources might temporarily grow somewhat lower since
the Government extended, for a further 18 months, a prohibition, originally
intended for six months, on the import of automobiles with f.o.b. values above
US$4,000.
G.   Highway Engineering
2.24      In the past, most highway engineering design work was carried out
by SEOPC with its own forces. More recently, however, SEOPC departed from
this practice and contracted the design of the proposed Duarte Highway with
foreign consultants. At the same time, it engaged four local consulting firms
in the design of 514 km of reconstruction work for roads to be included in its
five-year road reconstruction program. The general quality of this reconstruc-
tion design work is adequate: the local consultants possess the necessary
technical background to develop, with proper guidance, full in-house design
capabilities within a reasonable time. This development is encouraging since,
in the past, highway work was based on insufficient engineering work, which
made construction supervision arduous and resulted in poorly constructed bases
and subbases and inadequate alignments and drainages, all of which contributed
to the observed widespread obsolescence of the road network.
2.25      Design standards for highways and bridges used by SEOPC follow
recommendations by AASHO, ASTM and the Asphalt Institute, and include some
modifications dictated by local conditions and experience (Table 2.5).
H.   Highway Construction
2.26      Construction of engineered highways has been carried out mainly by
local contractors. Their annual contracting capacity is currently estimated
at a volume of more than US$30 million. Some of these firms are associated
with foreign companies. While, traditionally, SEOPC has maintained its own
capacity for highway construction, its forces are normally employed mostly
in emergency works. It is difficult to judge the local industry's technical
know-how based on the condition of roads because few data are available relating
to past control of the technical execution of the works. There is evidence
that the poor condition of the highway network is a result of inadequate engi-
neering designs and poor construction practices encouraged by the lack of
adequate supervision and aggravated by the lack of subsequent road maintenance.
2.27      Design standards and material specifications for roads and bridges
are all based on AASHO recommendations and ASTM methods; however, there is
evidence that these standards were not observed to the required degree



- 15 -
by designers. SEOPC has an established procedure for advertising projects,
receiving proposals and awarding construction contracts on the basis of
competitive bidding, yet past practice was to award such contracts without
bidding; contract prices were fixed by SEOPC, and the selection of a firm
was made by the Office of the Presidency. As a result of the recent participa-
tion of international lending agencies in the highway sector, the Government
has awarded some contracts on the basis of competitive bidding and has invited
international tenders for large contracts. These improvements in procurement
methods are expected to help promote the institutional changes within SEOPC,
which would attract bids for civil works from a wider range of qualified
contractors. Enforcement of properly controlled supervision of construction
would make the contractors produce work of acceptable quality.
I.   Highway Maintenance
2.28      Maintenance of the road network is the responsibility of SEOPC
through its General Directorate of Highways (DGC) in charge of road main-
tenance activities and its General Directorate of Transportation (DGT) in
charge of equipment. In early 1979, DGC was reorganized, and the office of the
Technical Assistance Program (under Loan 1316T-DO) became the new Sub-Directorate
of Maintenance with overall road maintenance responsibilities (except for rural
roads, which are the responsibility of the Feeder Roads Directorate). Routine
and periodic maintenance is carried out through four regional districts having
a total of 18 sub-units called "ayudantias." The work programs for each
district and ayudantia are prepared, supervised and monitored by the Central
Sub-Directorate of Maintenance.
2.29      The ayudantias are headed by an engineer supported by administra-
tive and accounting personnel, a highway maintenance section responsible for
the implementation of work programs and an equipment section responsible for
the general maintenance and operation of equipment. While the ayudantia has
its own personnel in the equipment section, the head of the section reports
to DGT, which ultimately owns the equipment. The ayudantias also operate
their own equipment workshops, but the central workshop is under DGT. The
total size of the work force, including 200 staff working at headquarters
and at the central workshop, is 3,200. As mentioned in paragraph 2.17,
SEOPC's labor force includes redundant laborers, mostly from urban areas,
with limited possibilities for reassignment. In the context of the agreement
on the Highway Maintenance Budget (para 4.05), this excess labor would be
taken into account in the budget estimates. This aspect would be monitored
closely with SEOPC through periodic consultation and would be coordinated
with USAID.



- 16 -
2.30      Although office and managerial personnel have educations compatible
with their positions, field and equipment personnel have a low level of required
education and their overall training is inadequate. Under the Technical
Assistance Program (Loan 1316T-DO), a permanent Training Section was established
within the Sub-Directorate of Maintenance. The training work already prepared
by this section (course manuals and audio-visual presentations) would be substan-
tially strengthened and expanded under the project (para 4.18).
2.31      Since the creation of the Sub-Directorate of Maintenance, highway
maintenance planning and supervision have been centralized under its control.
This arrangement is expected to improve the separation of the maintenance and
construction functions which, in the past, have not been clearly delineated,
affecting the actual level of expenditures in maintenance, i.e., its resources,
not being clearly earmarked, were often diverted to improvement and construction.
Furthermore, the budgetary allocations were made in practice as monthly allot-
ments assigned to various materials, asphalt, maintenance work and for specific
highways, on the basis of immediate needs without any overall work program.
Although the total funding appears appropriate, the practice resulted in only
a small percentage of total funding finally being made available to the
ayudantias to carry their routine maintenance programs. This situation has
been progressively corrected by the technical assistance for road maintenance.
Cost accounting is being introduced, and a fiscal accounting system was
established in January 1978. This system, utilizing six cost centers in each
district, separates expenditures for each center into eight categories,
providing an overall segregation sufficient for appropriate control. The
preparation of an Accounting Manual regulating the application of the new
.fiscal accounting system and the training of accountants are in progress and
would be introduced into all ayudantias under the project.
2.32      The 1979 budget for road maintenance was submitted in the new fiscal
accounting format, on the basis, for the first time, of a planned work program.
However, the FY1979 budget approved by the National Budget Office is presented
in the usual format. This format -- utilized across the board by the Dominican
Government -- contains a confusing mixture of non-related services, discourages
effective fiscal management and eases the perpetual reassignment of funds to
meet the most immediate demands. Nevertheless, after a detailed study by the
Sub-Directorate of Maintenance, SEOPC confirmed that the FY1979 funds requested
for the maintenance program were adopted intact. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it would support the fiscal -- cost center --
accounting budgeting and would release funds in accordance with these budgets'
work programs from 1980 onward (para 4.13).
2.33      With the support of the technical assistance for road maintenance,
a maintenance management system has been designed and gradually adopted. This
system, which comprises new accounting procedures, resource allocation, work
scheduling, reporting, monitoring and control, is based on annual work programs
and is regulated by a comprehensive Maintenance Manual adopted in June 1978.
Nationwide implementation of the maintenance management system commenced in
October 1978 and has resulted, although not without problems mostly derived
from inexperience of personnel and considerable lags in the flow of funds,
in positive improvements in the overall maintenance of the road network.



- 17 -
Concurrently with the adoption of the system, the preparation of a base
1980-1984 work program and the FY1980 budget was carried out, constituting
the base for the maintenance program under the project.
2.34      The condition of the equipment fleet of some 200 units has improved
in the last two years as a result of acquisitions and the complete overhaul
of the workshop system under Loan 1316T-DO. The incorporation of new units
permitted a reduction in the average age (40% over 10 years, 90% over 8 years)
by allowing the scrapping of obsolete units, and increased the number of
units in operation. The overhauling of the workshop system was achieved by
constructing 18 new workshops, one in each ayudantia, complete with machine
tools, furniture and supplies. The renewal value of the existing fleet is
US$5.0 million. To support the implementation of the Five-Year Maintenance
Program, renewal and expansion of the fleet for a total US$8.0 million are
required, doubling the number of units by the end of the program period.
J.   Rural Roads
2.35      Until recently, no single agency in the Government was responsible
for the construction and maintenance of rural roads. Many roads were built
directly by the Office of the Presidency with special funds, while others were
built by some ministries (including SEOPC), autonomous Government organizations
and individual farmers. This diversity of responsibility is still reflected
in the lack of precise knowledge regarding the extent, location and condition
of the country's rural roads network. To remedy this situation, the Government,
in November 1970, created, under SEOPC, a Directorate General of Rural Roads
*(DGCV) responsible for centralizing the planning, construction and maintenance
of rural roads. It was not, however, until the new administration reorganiza-
tion in 1978 that DGCV absorbed the bulk of rural roads activities from the
Office of the Presidency and was set for larger undertakings. As DGCV develops
its program, the coordination of its maintenance activities for secondary and
rural roads with those of DGV for national roads would have to be ensured, in
particular concerning equipment management and maintenance. During negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed that it would review the matter with the Bank
not later than December 31, 1981.
2.36      In 1979, DGCV began carrying out a systematic rural roads inventory
to determine the size of the network, its condition, and the remaining needs
for extension, reconstruction and required maintenance. The Government's
FY1979 budget provides DGCV with RD$ 7.8 million for construction and
reconstruction of some 500 km of rural roads, in contrast to the total
RD$ 7.4 million (for 1,165 km) which DGCV expended for the same purpose in
the eight years since its establishment in 1970. Additionally, the FY1979
budget provides RD$ 3.5 million to the Office of the Presidency to complete
its ongoing works on some 240 km of roads. DGCV has developed a preliminary
plan for future construction and reconstruction (from which a list of roads
was selected for the project), which includes the following work:
1980          530 km             RD$ 8.2 million
1981           550 km            RD$ 8.5 million
1982          600 km             RD$ 9.3 million
This effort would be assisted by two international lending agencies: IDB
supporting the construction of a three-year, US$14.0 million program of higher



- 18 -
standard (surfaced, 7-m wide) rural roads, and USAID providing technical assis-
tance to build up maintenance capabilities within DGCV. Both programs are
expected to be implemented in 1980. IDB plans to provide additional support
for the repair of damages caused to secondary roads by recent hurricanes.
2.37      Rural roads construction has been carried out mostly by contract,
with little work by force account. The construction methods have been based
on the use of equipment to a level where the labor component has not been
more than 10% of the total cost, which has prompted the new administration
to consider the fact that excess labor is available at SEOPC and in the
rural areas. Given the high level of unemployment and underemployment in
these areas, the use of labor-based construction methods was indicated. This
procedure is strongly supported by the present administration's social policy
as reflected in its commitment to provide employment and to improve the lot of
the rural poor. Under these circumstances, and considering the support already
provided to DGCV's regular construction program by USAID and IDB, the Govern-
ment requested the Bank to assist in testing labor-based construction techniques.
III. PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
3.01      The Bank's previous involvement in the highway subsector consists
of the provision of technical assistance as executing agency under the
UNDP-financed Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study (1973), and
the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan 1316T-DO,
US$5.0 million, August 1976), which, by initiating highway reconstruction
and maintenance activities, prepared the way for the much larger and more
comprehensive programs in the proposed project.
3.02      The Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study, for which
the Bank was executing agency, was supported by a UNDP grant of US$400,000.
The Study, carried out by consultants Lamarre Valois International (Canada),
provided the first highway inventory and carried out the first systematic
traffic data collection in the Dominican Republic. It also made the first
attempt to use economic evaluation for the selection of projects and the
formulation of a Rehabilitation Program. In addition, it reviewed the need
for workshops and workshop equipment and tools and road maintenance equip--
ment and parts, all of which served as a base for the formulation of the
First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. The study also reviewed
the administrative structure of the Highway Directorate and made useful
recommendations for improving its practices and procedures. The scope of
the First Road Project had to be reduced in order to bring its total
foreign exchange cost to about US$5 million, which was the ceiling set by
the Government on borrowing from the Bank. Although it addressed only part
of the requirements identified by the study, the First Project proved to be
well adjusted to the absorptive capacity of SEOPC.
3.03      The Bank's First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project
included (a) the reconstruction of a 19-km road section, Puente Camu-San
Francisco de Macoris; (b) the initiation of a highway maintenance program,
including the purchase of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
workshop rehabilitation, and improvement of road maintenance procedures and



- 19 -
planning; and (c) consulting services for supervision of the road reconstruc-
'tion and technical assistance for the maintenance program. The limited objec-
tives of the project were broadly achieved. The level of road maintenance
has increased markedly, and improvements in the methods of design and super-
vision of road reconstruction works have been applied. At the same time, the
infrastructural support indispensable for successful maintenance has been laid
out: 18 new workshops have been built and equipped, and a number of mainte-
nance equipment units have been purchased to prop the grossly inadequate
existing fleet. Additional equipment is needed, however, and continuation of
the ongoing works is essential. As a result, the Government has declared the
program's continuation among its highest priorities.
3.04      The First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project was successful
in implementing a pilot maintenance program which, although concentrated in
the districts of La Vega and Azua, served later for extending the experience
on a countrywide basis. Under the project, maintenance operations and adminis-
trative practices were improved, and, through its influence, a new Sub-
Directorate of Maintenance was established at SEOPC. The Sub-Directorate
formulated, with the collaboration of the consultants providing technical
assistance under the project, the five-year (1980-1984) countrywide road
maintenance and reconstruction program which forms the basis of the proposed
project. In addition, the First Project established at SEOPC a Central Train-
ing Unit which developed maintenance training programs, initiating the much
needed training of personnel in the areas required for the successful implemen-
tation of the maintenance programs (para 2.30).
3.05      The civil works for the road reconstruction component of the First
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project, although now practically completed,
have shown slow progress. For various reasons, among which delayed payments by
SEOPC and substantial underestimation of the contracted base unit prices by the
contractor should be noted, the reconstruction of the 19-km Puente Camu-San
Francisco de Macoris road is being completed with a 15-month delay. The
original construction contract had to be rescinded in November 1978 by SEOPC,
which continued the work under its direct administration (various individual
contracts and force account). The paving started in May 1979 and faced delays
due to the particularly heavy rainy season. The works are now scheduled for
completion by the end of 1979. The Project Completion Report would be issued
shortly thereafter.



- 20 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives, Long-Term Framework and General Description
4.01      The project would:
-    pursue the strengthening and expansion of maintenance capacity
undertaken under the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project;
-    initiate a high priority road reconstruction program for primary
and secondary roads with obsolete pavements;
-    demonstrate the field of application of labor-based techniques
for the improvement and maintenance of rural access roads;
-    upgrade SEOPC's maintenance personnel through functional skill
training; and
-    build up SEOPC's capacity to plan and program road reconstruction
works through the establishment of a special unit entrusted with
that work.
The institutional objectives have been kept simple and directly related to
the project. The broader need for improved highway planning beyond mainte-
nance and reconstruction has not been addressed directly. The establishment
of a capacity to plan reconstruction works effectively would have a demonstra-
tion effect and should lead at a later stage to the strengthening of the plan-
ning function with SEOPC.
4.02      The development of adequate maintenance capacity and the reconstruc-
tion of the road network are long-term endeavors requiring policies and
programs designed with a time perspective, extending beyond the four- to five-
year implementation period of a single project. This factor has been recog-
nized in the preparation of the proposed project, which is based on a broadly
defined maintenance and reconstruction "option" covering the period 1980-1989.
As shown below, the long-term "option" is defined in terms of key aggregates
determining the scope of annual programs and provides a basis to assess capac-
ity requirements, particularly trained manpower and logistical support, and
to set institutional objectives. The full realization of the long-term
objectives pursued through the project would extend beyond its implementation
period in line with current experience with similar projects. However, the
objectives of the project and the resulting requirements are defined with
sufficient precision to allow assessment of progress.
4.03      The long-term maintenance and reconstruction "option" adopted by
the Government for the period 1980-1989 would provide for the following:



- 21 -
1980     1984      1989
Total network maintained (km)                      5,200    5,300    5,500
of which "temporary maintenance" (km)              2,000    1,200          -
- Recurrent maintenance expenditures
(RD$ million; 1979 value)                          7.8      10.5     14.0
- Total renewal value of equipment
fleet (RD$ million; 1979 value)                    5.0      12.0     15.5
- Expansion of equipment fleet
(RD$ million; 1979 value)                          3.8       1.2      1.4
- Annual reconstruction (km)                         140       170       230
- Cumulative reconstruction (km)                     140       800    1,950
- Reconstruction budget
(RD$ million; 1979 value)                         24.0      28.0     38.0
- Total maintenance, equipment and
reconstruction budget
(RD$ million; 1979 value)                         35.6      39.7     53.4
SEOPC's maintenance "option" was defined through iteration with a view to:
(i) keep annual maintenance and reconstruction expenditures within
the progression indicated above, which corresponds to the
financial capacity of the Government assuming continuing
participation of external lending agencies in relation to
capital costs;
(ii) minimize total transport cost, i.e., vehicle operating costs
and maintenance and reconstruction expenditures over the
period 1980-1989 (para 5.03).
Specific annual programs were prepared and adopted by SEOPC in mid 1979 for
the first five years, 1980-1984. These programs have been updated to reflect
the project implementation schedules and the early reconstruction, under the
Emergency Road Reconstruction Project, of two road sections damaged by the
flood that accompanied the recent hurricanes.



- 22 -
4.04      Estimates of planned activities and related financing require-
ments for the period 1980-1984 (Table 4.1) are as follows:
------(RD$ million 1979 values)-----
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Reconstruction
Included in this Project                    4.4    10.0    10.7        -        -
-  Bank-financed                          2.9      6.6     7.0
-  Government                             1.5     3.4      3.7       -       -
Included in the Emergency Project          13.0      8.9     2.8       -        -
Other Projects by Government                6.6      6.9    13.4    27.2    28.0
Total Reconstruction                 24.0    25.8    26.9    27.2    28.0
Maintenance and Training
Included in this Project                    3.8      6.0     2.1      0.2     0.1
-  Bank-financed                          3.6      5.6     2.0      0.2     0.1
-  Government                             0.2     0.4      0.1       -       -
Recurrent Expenditures for Training         0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2
Recurrent Expenditures for
Maintenance                         7.8      8.5      9.1     9.8    10.5
Total Maintenance and Training        11.8    14.7    11.4    10.2    10.8
4.05      At the time of negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would:
(a) finance local project expenditures;
(b) provide adequate funds through its budget for the carrying out of
the five-year 1980-1984 Highway Maintenance Program (para 4.13);
(c) exchange views with the Bank each year, at the time of preparation
of the budget, on implementation and financing of the 1980-1984
maintenance and reconstruction programs;
(d) give priority in planning highway capital expenditures to the
execution of the remaining tranche of the highway reconstruction
program over other highway capital expenditures not included in
such program.



- 23 -
4.06      The specific project components are:
(a) Road Reconstruction
-    reconstruction by contract, and related supervision by
consultants, of 150 km of roads covering Phase I of
SEOPC's Reconstruction Program (1980-1984);
-    detailed engineering for the reconstruction of additional
317 km of roads within the framework of the above program;
and
-    establishment within SEOPC of a Reconstruction Planning Unit
to plan, program and study the economic feasibility of
SEOPC's Reconstruction Program and provisions of related
technical assistance.
(b) Maintenance and Training Program
-    implementation of SEOPC's five-year (1980-1984) highway
maintenance program, together with a set of coordinated
measures to build up SEOPC's maintenance capacity including:
-- renewal and expansion of equipment fleet; and
-- organizational improvements, training of personnel
and related technical assistance.
(c) Pilot Rural Roads Program
-    implementation of a two-year (1981-1982) pilot program
for the construction of about 200 km of rural roads
employing labor-based techniques, with related institu-
tional measures and technical assistance.
The project would be carried out over the period 1980-1984 with the recon-
struction and rural roads program scheduled to be completed in 1982.
B.   Project Components and Requirements
(i) Reconstruction Program
4.07      SEOPC's reconstruction program for the period 1980-1984 covers some
800 km, of which the tranche in the proposed project includes 150 km (Table 4.2
and Map IBRD 14492). The 514 km now being engineered cover roughly the first
three years of SEOPC's reconstruction program. Engineering studies for the roads
programed for the subsequent years, 1983-1985, some 317 km, are included in the
proposed project (Table 4.3). The selection of roads included in SEOPC's recon-
struction program was based on the DELCANDA Transport Sector Study (1978) and on
the inventory analysis developed for the preparation of the maintenance program
under the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. The priority
rating and economic evaluation were subject to further confirmation studies



- 24 -
(para 5.05). The sequence of inclusion of various roads into the reconstruc-
tion program reflects economic priority as well as the need to achieve regional
balance and, finally, the state of advancement of the detailed engineering and
designs.
4.08      In early 1979, SEOPC retained local consultants to prepare detailed
engineering, designs and bidding documents for 514 km of road reconstruction.
Engineering for 150 km of roads selected for the project was given priority
and was scheduled for completion by August 1979 but has been delayed and
would be completed by the end of November 1979. SEOPC also retained
consultants DELCANDA to carry out the economic study of the reconstruction
program and to coordinate and oversee the technical work of local consultants.
Project cost estimates are based on substantially completed detailed
engineering.
4.09      The proposed reconstruction would consist of raising and widening
the platform along existing alignments and improvements of cross drainage.
Pavement structure would include selected gravel or crusher run covered with
an asphaltic carpet or a double bituminous surface treatment. The scope of
the proposed reconstruction work correctly reflects the need to limit geometric
improvements in order to cut costs and reconstruct the maximum mileage of
roads; the average costs per km (base cost June 1979) range from US$118,000
to US$157,000.
4.10      The execution of the works would be under the authority of SEOPC's
General Directorate of Highways. Supervision would be entrusted to a joint
venture of an international consulting firm and local consultants. Local
consultants have the capacity to handle most of the field work, but would
need assistance and guidance on specialized technical matters and construction
management. The international firm would assume the leading role and would
strengthen the General Directorate of Highways as necessary, especially concern-
ing pavement construction, consistent practices regarding contract adminis-
tration and overall coordination of the program. Terms of reference for the
construction supervision and related technical assistance services (about
264 man-months) are outlined in Annex 1. Detailed terms of reference were
reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
4.11      The engineering of 317 km of reconstruction would be entrusted to
local consultants under the General Directorate of Highways. A special Recon-
struction Planning Unit would be established within SEOPC's General Directorate
of Planning and Programing to plan, program and study the economic feasibility
of road reconstruction projects. This arrangement would develop in-house capacity
to pursue the preparation of SEOPC's road reconstruction programs, including the
technical orientation and supervision of local consultants retained for
detailed engineering. The terms of reference, staffing and institutional
arrangements for the proposed Unit were discussed and agreed with the Govern-
ment at the time of negotiations (Annex 2). The Unit would be headed by an
experienced SEOPC engineer/planner assisted by an experienced economist and a
minimum body of support staff. The Unit would benefit from the 15 man-months



- 25 -
of assistance of specialized international experts provided under the project,
including a senior engineer and a transport economist. At the time of
negotiations, the Government confirmed that the Planning Unit would be duly
established by June 30, 1980 and fully staffed by December 31, 1980. The
Government also confirmed that the Unit would be adequately funded and
equipped to carry out its task.
(ii) Highway Maintenance Program
4.12      Over the last three years, SEOPC has developed a systematic approach
to the planning, scheduling and control of its annual program of maintenance
activities. The improved procedures making up a coherent system have been
tested in two districts and are now being introduced countrywide. The project
would support the introduction of the system and its consolidation throughout
SEOPC's organization. The system establishes ground rules for the formulation
of an annual program of activities in each ayudantia by types of roads and
classes of traffic. The maintenance treatment afforded to each road reflects
economic considerations (minimization of total transport cost), established
engineering practices and known capacity constraints (financial and organiza-
tional). The maintenance program is closely interrelated with the reconstruc-
tion program since roads in need of reconstruction require "temporary mainte-
nance," including a considerable number of ad hoc repairs. The maintenance
system and the concept underlying the definition of the annual maintenance
program are fully embodied in the series of Maintenance Manuals prepared under
the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project and in the Final Report
on Planning for Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation, January 1979. At the
.time of negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would pursue the
countrywide implementation of the maintenance system and prepare and adopt
annual maintenance programs based on recommendations contained in the "Final
Report on Planning for Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation" (dated January
12, 1979).
4.13      The implementation of an agreed annual maintenance program would
require the level of funding indicated in paragraph 4.04. In addition,
improvements would be introduced in budgeting practices to establish a rigorous
definition and separation of maintenance activities from construction and
reconstruction works. The Government confirmed during negotiations that
it would adopt a budgeting system, starting in FY1980, by which: (a) the
highway maintenance budget would be separated from other SEOPC activities;
and (b) the maintenance budget would contain specific allocations for
various components, in particular labor, materials, equipment, fuel,
administration and contracts for periodic maintenance.
4.14      The project would include a set of coordinated measures to pursue
the buildup of SEOPC maintenance capacity in line with the long-term option
mentioned in paragraph 4.02. A major element would be the expansion and
renewal of the equipment fleet. Net additional requirements were obtained
from an analysis of the capacity required annually to carry out the specified
level of activities and a condition survey of the existing fleet, taking into
account the effect of increased capacity of SEOPC workshops. The list of
equipment to be procured under the project is presented in Table 4.4.



- 26 -
The equipment will be procured in 1980 and 1981. The list and related
procurement schedule were agreed during negotiations. The list also in-
cludes additional equipment needed to set up the production unit organized
under the training program (para 4.19) and the miscellaneous equipment and
tools required for the Rural Roads Program (para 4.21).
4.15      The project would also provide the spare parts necessary to set up
adequate stocks to generalize preventive maintenance procedures and to carry
out the overhaul of some 50 salvageable equipment units. The overhaul program
has been reviewed and would provide only for justified repair.
4.16      The targets adopted by SEOPC concerning equipment utilization and
availability are indicated below and would result in total fleet average
utilization of 52%. They reflect anticipated improvement as well as the
relatively low average age of SEOPC's equipment fleet.
Equipment availability:               75% (average)
Equipment utilization:                70% (average)
Resulting Total Fleet Utilization:  52% (average)
At the time of negotiations, the Government confirmed that the availability
and utilization of its equipment fleet would be monitored on a continuing
basis and assessed annually by comparison with the above norms. Improvements
in equipment management would also include the systematic planning of renewal,
overhaul and scrapping. The Government confirmed during negotiations that SEOPC
would adopt adequate procedures for systematic renewal, overhaul and scrapping
by June 30, 1981, and the resulting plans would be discussed with the Bank at
the time of review of the annual maintenance programs.
4.17      The maintenance program would essentially be carried out by SEOPC's
General Directorate of Highways. The consolidation of improvement introduced
over the last two years and the implementation of the measures to build up
SEOPC's capacity would require technical assistance by specialized consultants
during the first two years of the project, 1980 and 1981. The technical
assistance would assist SEOPC in:
(a) consolidating systems for equipment management and
accounting and the overall maintenance which has been partially
implemented for the principal network;
(b) planning for the inclusion of the feeder roads network into
the overall maintenance management system;
(c) ensuring that the 18 workshops are in full operating condition;
(d) selecting and procuring equipment and spare parts;
(e) implementing improved administrative procedures within SEOPC;
(f) developing an overall personnel management system for SEOPC; and
(g) rehabilitating 50 units of equipment.



- 27 -
The scope of the services necessary are described in Annex 3. The Government
agreed during negotiations to contract these consultants not later than March 31,
1980. Detailed terms of reference were reviewed and agreed at the time of
negotiations. SEOPC wishes to reduce reliance upon consultants and has estimated
that 46 man-months by experts of various qualifications would be required. This
estimate may be on the low side; therefore, the Government agreed during negotiations
to review the requirements for technical assistance by December 31, 1980 after
consultation with the Bank.
(iii) Training of Maintenance Personnel
4.18      The four-year (1981-1984) program for training highway maintenance
personnel would continue the program undertaken under the First Road Maintenance
and Reconstruction Project and would be specially addressed to supervisors,
equipment operators, mechanics, accountants and administrative personnel. The
Terms of Reference for the program, which aims at improving the productivity
of some 900 staff, are described in Annex 4; the program would include the
organization and operation of a field production unit, the strengthening of
SEOPC's Training Unit, the purchasing of training equipment and materials, the
organization of seminars for senior staff and the training abroad of some
senior maintenance engineers (Annex 4, Table 1).
4.19      Training of foremen/overseers and operators/drivers would be carried
out mostly in the field by adopting a system of training through production.
A Training Production Unit (TPU) would be set up to implement training while,
at the same time, carrying out rehabilitation/maintenance operations on specific
road sections within SEOPC's annual maintenance program. The trainees assigned
to the TPU would thus be trained under actual working conditions. Training of
mechanics would be conducted mostly at the Sanchez workshop where physical
facilities already exist but which require modest rehabilitation and expansion;
repairing worn and broken equipment would form the basis of mechanical staff
training. Seminars would also be conducted for equipment supervisors, store-
keepers, maintenance engineers and accountants, both in Santo Domingo and in
the districts and ayudantias. At the time of negotiations, the Government
confirmed that it would establish and equip the TPU and provide adequate
funds for its operation in line with the schedule and estimated requirements
given in Annex 4, Table 2.
4.20      Instructors required for the implementation of the program would be
provided under the project (Annex 4, Chart 1). The four-year training program
would require technical assistance by three expatriate and three Dominican
training specialists provided by a firm of consultants; one of the expatriate
specialists would act as the senior training advisor to SEOPC responsible for
planning, coordinating and monitoring all SEOPC's training activities. Right
from the start, the Dominican instructors would work closely with the expatriate
trainers, and it is expected that they would take over the program after one
year and carry it through completion. SEOPC would assign as counterparts
three foremen, three mechanics and three equipment operators to be trained as
assistant instructors. The per diem for trainees would be financed under the
project. Bank participation in the financing of the per diem is essential to
support the training program and would overcome the limitations of SEOPC's
procedures and regulations. The terms of reference for technical assistance
services for training (Annex 4) were reviewed and agreed during negotiations.



- 28 -
The same firm would provide the technical assistance for maintenance and
training under two separate Terms of Reference. This should foster the
necessary coordination.
(iv) Pilot Rural Roads Program
4.21      The pilot rural roads program, including the construction of about
200 km of roads and the purchase of miscellaneous equipment and tools, would
provide an assessment of appropriate labor-equipment mixes and the institutional
arrangements to implement such programs. About 200 km of roads were selected
from an ample list contemplated by SEOPC for future construction on the basis
of preliminary economic assessment (para 5.14), taking account also of the
geographical distribution and the availability of surplus labor.
4.22      The feasibility studies carried out jointly by SEOPC's General
Directorate of Rural Roads (DGCV) and Bank consultants have identified the first
50 km of rural roads to be built under Phase I of the program. These roads are
located in the northwestern part of the country; their improvement would be
economically justified, and reconnaissance-type engineering for the proposed
works is now in progress so that construction could be initiated as soon as the
program gets under way. Phase II covers 150 km to be studied as part of project
implementation following the methodology developed in Phase I.
4.23      The review of the reconnaissance-type engineering designs now under
preparation for Phase I showed the need for more flexibility in the application
of geometric design standards. The necessary revisions have now been intro-
duced into the engineering of roads under Phase I. This sample engineering was
used to estimate costs for the whole 200-km rural roads pilot program (Table 4.5).
The resulting estimates of quantities and costs are, however, tentative, which
is acceptable given the small relative size and the nature of the pilot program.
4.24      Recent experience in Honduras has shown the importance for such
programs of management and technical advisory service. The program would be
managed by a specially created Labor-based Construction Unit within DGCV.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to establish this unit not later than
June 30, 1980. The project would provide necessary technical assistance to the
Unit by specialized consultants. The terms of reference for these services and
the organizational arrangements for the implementation of the pilot program are
detailed in Annex 5 and were confirmed at the time of negotiations.
4.25      Labor costs are critical for the economic feasibility of labor-
based road construction techniques. Recent research suggests that labor-
based methods are cost effective for daily wage rates of up to RD$ 2 equivalent.
The economic analysis of the project (para 5.18) shows that, at the shadow
wage rate of RD$ 2/day, which corresponds to the shadow wage rate for rural
unskilled labor in the Dominican Republic, the economic cost is similar for
labor-based techniques and for conventional labor-equipment mixes. At the



- 29 -
current minimum wage for rural labor of RD$ 3.50/day, however, the financial
cost of a given road section is up to 20% higher applying labor-based
techniques rather than conventional labor-equipment mixes. The Government
is prepared to incur this additional cost to test the feasibility of labor-
based techniqutes for the construction of rural roads. In the Government's
view, the additional cost is justified by the benefits from employment and
income generation in selected rural areas. The mix of labor and equipment
would be evaluated and adjusted throughout the project with a view to achieve
cost effectiveness considering the shadow price of wages. The result of the
pilot project would serve other agencies (USAID and IDB) as well as SEOPC.
The component would, of course, require a substantial supervision input from
the Bank, which would be justified in view of the interest of the Bank in
appropriate applications of labor-based techniques.
C.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
4.26      The total project cost is estimated at US$49.0 million based on
November 1979 prices and including appropriate contingency allowances as shown
in the table on the following page. The local tax content of this cost is
estimated at about 10%, consisting mainly of taxes on materials and equipment
purchases for civil works contracts.
4.27      The proposed loan of US$35 million would finance the foreign exchange
cost of the project (72%). The Government would finance the local cost compo-
nent (US$14.0 million, including taxes and transfers), and the recurrent expen-
ditures required to carry out the agreed Five-Year Maintenance Program. The
Bank would finance less than the full foreign exchange component of civil works
(63% instead of 65%), but would contribute more than the foreign exchange com-
ponent for the implementation (technical assistance and per diem for SEOPC
personnel) of the training program (100% instead of 35%).
4.28      The estimated cost of reconstruction of the 150 km of roads was
prepared by consultants on the basis of quantities derived from completed
detailed engineering and current unit prices for similar works. Cost estimates
for consulting services are based on recent contract or man-month rates for
similar services by local and foreign firms. The cost of road maintenance
equipment, including spare parts, has been estimated on the basis of detailed
lists prepared by Roy Jorgensen and Associates, Inc.; they reflect the outcome
of tenders received for purchase under the First Road Maintenance and Recon-
struction Project and include local preparation and delivery charges but
exclude import and sales taxes. The cost of rural road improvements is based
on reconnaissance-type engineering for sample sections and reflects typical
output attained in similar ongoing programs, in particular, in Honduras
(para 4.24). Technical assistance and consultants cost per month is esti-
mated to range from US$1,500 to US$9,000 equivalent for engineers, planners,
instructors and technicians of different grades among Dominicans and
foreigners, with an average of US$3,800 per man-month. The project would



- 30 -
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(US$ Million)
Estimated
Foreign
Component
Project Components             Local      Foreign   Total        x
1. Road Reconstruction
a. Civil works (150 km)            7.4        13.7      21.1      65
b. Supervision                     0.6         1.1       1.7      65
c. Technical assistance to
reconstruction unit             -          0.1      0.1       80
d. Road reconstruction
engineering (317 km)           0.4         0.8      1.2       65
Subtotal              8.4        15.7      24.1
2. Road Maintenance
- Maintenance Program
a. Purchase of maintenance
equipment, including
training equiPment            0.5         9.1       9.6       95
b. Spare parts and workshop
tools                          0.1         1.1      1.2       95
c. Technical assistance            0.1         0.4       0.5      80
Subtotal              0.7        10.6      11.3
- Training Program
a. Training facilities             0.1         0.1       0.2      65
b. Technical assistance            0.1         0.3       0.4      80
c. Per diem SEOPC personnel        0.5          -        0.5
Subtotal              0.7         0.4       1.1
3. Rural Roads
a. Civil works                     1.3        1.2        2.5      45 2/
b. Technical assistance and
supervision                    0.2         0.6      0.8       80
c. Equipment                        -          0.5      0.5       95
Subtotal              1.5         2.3       3.8
Total Base Cost -/  11.3         29.0      40.3
4. Contingencies
a. Physical (10% of 1. a-b and
3. a-b)                        0.9         1.7      2.6
b. Price 3/ (14% of total base
cost plus physical conting.) 1.8           4.3      6.1
Subtotal              2.7         6.0       8.7
TOTAL                14.0        35.0    49 .0        72
1/ At November 1979 values.
2/ Order of magnitude estimate assuming construction with intermediate labor and
equipment methods.
3/ Price adjustment rates as follows:    Civil works            Equipment      Consultants
1979-1980            10%                10%              10%
1981-1984             7%                  7%              7%



- 31 -
require a total of about 557 man-months of specialized services, including
173 man-months of advisory and consultant services by foreign experts, 72
man-months of services by Dominican instructors and 312 man-months of services
by the staff of local consultants engaged in engineering and supervision of
reconstruction works.
4.29      The foreign exchange component of the road reconstruction works has
been estimated at 65%, reflecting the dependence on imported supplies, espe-
cially fuel and equipment, and the fact that, although foreign contractors
are expected to show interest, they would eventually capture a limited share
of the works either directly or through joint ventures. This estimate is based
upon a detailed breakdown of various inputs required. The same percentage
would be applied to buildings and improvements of rural roads. The foreign
exchange component of consultant services for supervision of construction and
detailed engineering has been estimated at 65%, reflecting the composition of
the consultant staff that would be assigned to the task. The remaining technical
assistance to SEOPC's Planning and Programing, Highway Maintenance and DGCV
Directorates has been estimated at 80%, reflecting ongoing contracts under the
First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. The Bank's contribution to
civil works and supervision and engineering was set at 63%, slightly below the
full estimated foreign exchange component, to compensate for financing of the
local cost of the training program (para 4.27). The contribution to rural roads
improvement was set at the same level, reflecting broadly what would have been
the foreign exchange component with the conventional mix of labor and equipment,
which is reasonable considering the lack of experience with labor-based
techniques.
4.30      Project expenditures eligible for disbursement of the Bank loan
would be as follows:
(a) 63% of the total costs for civil works for road recon-
struction, rural road improvements and buildings;
(b) 63% of the total expenditures for consultant services for super-
vision of the construction and engineering of reconstruction
works;
(c) 80% of the total expenditures for technical assistance services
to the planning unit; technical assistance for highway
maintenance and personnel training programs; and technical
assistance and supervision of rural roads;
(d) 100% of the foreign expenditures for direct imports of equipment,
spare parts and tools;
(e) 95% of the total expenditures for locally procured imported
equipment, spare parts and tools;
(f) 100% of the total expenditures for per diem of SEOPC personnel; and
(g) 100% of the foreign expenditures for training abroad.



- 32 -
Disbursement of loan funds would be made against normal documentation for all
items except for civil works for rural road improvements to be carried out by
force account, in which case disbursements would be made against a statement
of expenditures (that should provide details of the location of works, total
estimated cost and amount disbursed during the reporting period), verified by
the heads of the consultant team retained for technical assistance for the
rural road program and for the training program. The employment of consultants
for supervision of reconstruction works would be a condition for disbursement
for the civil works under the road reconstruction component (para 4.10). The
estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in Table 4.6.
D.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
4.31      SEOPC would be responsible for project execution through its following
departments and divisions:
-    the General Directorate of Planning and Programing would be in
charge of the planning of future reconstruction and the engineering
of future works;
-    the General Directorate of Highways would be responsible for
reconstruction works and for the Maintenance Program, the
latter being handled by the Assistant Director of Maintenance;
-    SEOPC's Training Unit under the direct authority of the Director
General of Highways would be responsible for the training program;
and, finally,
-    the General Directorate of Rural Roads would be responsible for the
rural roads program.
These units would have adequate capacity under the project to carry out the
task. The project is large, however, in relation to SEOPC's absorptive capa-
city, and the situation would have to be kept under close review; therefore,
during negotiations, the Government agreed, in addition to the general
"adequate staff and resources" clause to review, from time to time, and
jointly with the Bank, the staffing of and the coordination among the
administrative subdivisions of SEOPC involved in the project.
4.32      As shown in the schedule presented in Table 4.7, the project would
be implemented over the five-year period 1980 to 1984 covered by the mainte-
nance program. Project expenditures related to the maintenance program
(equipment procurement, training program and technical assistance) would take
place over the mid-1980 to end-1984 period. The construction works and related
engineering, as well as the rural road program, would be initiated in mid-1980
and carried through 1982. The project implementation schedule was reviewed
and agreed during negotiations.
4.33      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement" (March 1977). The procurement program for equip-
ment and parts, indicating lot size, estimated cost and proposed exception to



- 33 -
ICB, would be subject to prior approval by the Bank. A program was reviewed
and agreed at the time of negotiations. Contracts with estimated costs over
US$50,000 would be awarded through ICB. Lots with an estimated cost below
US$50,000 and within an overall ceiling of US$500,000 would be advertised
locally in accordance with relevant SEOPC regulations, which are satisfactory.
Spare parts for specific makes of equipment would be procured directly from
established dealers under the same regulations for individual orders of less
than US$50,000 within an overall ceiling of US$500,000. Bidding documents and
model contracts for procurement of equipment were reviewed and agreed at the
time of negotiations.
4.34      Reconstruction works would be carried out through unit price con-
tracts awarded to prequalified firms on the basis of ICB. For bidding purposes,
the reconstruction program has been subdivided into five lots with lengths
ranging from 25 to 35.2 km with estimated costs between US$2.7 and US$5.2
million. Firms would be prequalified to tender for one or more lots according
to their capacity. At least nine existing local firms would be capable of
handling the largest lot. The lots are of sufficient size to justify the
mobilization of special equipment for asphalt pavement and related technical
specialists. The combination of lots would be attractive to large interna-
tional firms, especially the ones with a foothold in the country. The procure-
ment arrangements for reconstruction works were confirmed during negotiations.
4.35      The terms of reference for consulting services for supervision of
reconstruction works and related technical assistance to the General Directorate
of Highways were reviewed and agreed at the time of negotiations. SEOPC
would retain, for the purpose, a firm or a group of firms (para 4.10) accept-
able to the Bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The employ-
ment of consultants for supervision would be a condition for disbursement
for reconstruction works (para 4.30).
4.36      Terms of reference for detailed engineering of the 317 km of further
reconstruction have been prepared by SEOPC and found acceptable. The task
would be entrusted to qualified local consultants acceptable to the Bank,
retained by SEOPC on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4.37      Technical assistance services for the maintenance program would be
a continuation of the work now under way under the First Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project. The Government intends to retain the same firm, Roy
Jorgensen Associates (USA), for these services. The services under the
proposed project would be under a new contract which would start on March 1,
1980, upon expiration of the ongoing one. This arrangement would be acceptable
to the Bank. The terms of reference for the proposed new contract were reviewed
and agreed at the time of negotiations.
4.38      The Personnel Training Program for Maintenance would rely upon a
group of expatriates and Dominican instructors. The terms of reference for
the technical assistance for this program including staffing arrangements
are shown in Annex 4. Technical assistance services would be provided by
the same international consulting firm providing the technical assistance
for the maintenance program, upon terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. The program would become fully operational in 1981 upon establish-
ment of the Training Production Unit.



- 34 -
4.39      Construction under the Pilot Rural Roads Program would be carried out
by local laborers assigned to the program by DGCV and working under the super-
vision of the Labor-Based Construction Unit with technical assistance by
foreign experts selected by the Government with Bank approval. Labor-based
construction would be based on reconnaissance-type engineering which would be
prepared by DGCV personnel in accordance with the terms previously agreed upon
by the Government and the Bank. Terms of reference and staffing schedule were
reviewed and agreed at the time of negotiations (Annex 5). Laborers would be
hired on a daily basis and only with respect to the execution of the specific
sections of rural roads under the project.
4.40      The progress of the project would be monitored against the agreed
implementation schedule and financing requirements established at appraisal.
In addition, the following indicators would be monitored to assess advances
made toward the project objectives:
(a) availability and utilization of maintenance equipment (para 4.16);
(b) programing and implementation of SEOPC's annual maintenance
programs with scope and compositon defined in accordance with
the comprehensive system introduced under the First Road
Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (para 4.12);
(c) budgeting of adequate funds for the maintenance and reconstruc-
tion program as per agreed schedule (para 4.04);
(d) number of trainees participating in the Personnel Training
Program (para 4.18); and
(e) the traffic surveys on project roads upon their completion
(reconstruction works and rural roads) and selected indicators
related to the general evolution of traffic from 1981 onward.
The purpose of the project indicators and the scope of related reporting
requirements were discussed and agreed at the time of negotiations.
4.41      Active Bank supervision played an important role in expediting the
implementation of the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. This
factor resulted in average annual Bank supervision input of 10 man-weeks over
the three years FY1977 to FY1979.  The much larger scope of this project would
call for at least similar allocations.  In addition, specialized support from
CPS would be required for the training component (1 mw/yr) and the pilot
rural roads program (4 mw/yr), whose relevance to the objectives of Bank
research has been mentioned (para 4.25).
E.   Project Risks
4.42      The maintenance and reconstruction component of the project addresses
high priority requirements which are recognized as such by planning authorities
outside the subsector as well as by SEOPC personnel throughout the organization.
The economic justification of the maintenance and reconstruction component is
well established even under unfavorable hypotheses concerning project cost and



- 35 -
future traffic growth (para 5.11). The technical solutions adopted for recon-
struction and maintenance are based on adequate engineering and reflect the
experience gained under the first project. These areas do not entail special
risk.
4.43      The main risk arises from the fact that the programs which would be
pursued or initiated under this project and the concurrent Emergency Road Re-
construction Project are large in relation to SEOPC's capacity and underline
the continuing need for tight fiscal policies. It was felt that the urgency
and magnitude of the task faced by SEOPC in maintenance and especially in
reconstruction (2,000 km of its main network) justified setting relatively
ambitious objectives. SEOPC's objectives of establishing adequate main-
tenance capacity (so-called cruising speed capacity) by 1984 and carrying
out needed reconstruction over ten years starting with about 150 km per year
until 1984 and to be stepped up thereafter are somewhat modest in comparison
with the needs. A slower pace would entail wasteful increases in total trans-
port costs on established transport flows. The scope of SEOPC programs for
maintenance and reconstruction was defined after careful analysis of capacity
of the local contracting industry and full and open consideration of the
budgetary implications of the program over the next ten years. The objectives
of SEOPC's programs represent a prudent compromise between requirements and
capacity. The annual consultations called for in paragraph 4.05 would provide
adequate opportunity to reassess the objectives of the program and to identify
specific constraints and related corrective measures. The commitment of the
Government to the programs and the broad scope of its dialogue with the Bank
on highway policy support the judgment that these consultations would be an
effective way to address the risk identified above.
4.44      The Pilot Rural Roads Program has been prepared with adequate depth
and is strongly supported by the Government. Being a pilot program, it has a
somewhat higher level of risk than the other project components. The main
risk comes from the fact that rural wages in the Dominican Republic are at
the upper reach of the range of cost effectiveness for labor-based road con-
struction techniques. This risk has been dealt with by ascertaining that the
proposed investments are economically justified, with costs based on conven-
tional labor-equipment mix, and by providing for adjustment of the mix through-
out the program. In that sense, the program is truly experimental and may,
in fact, demonstrate that labor-based techniques should be restricted to a
limited number of operations beyond the routine maintenance task now performed
normally by SEOPC's maintenance gang. The main contribution expected from the
program is to devise efficient ways of using rural labor for public works
projects serving local communities.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Programs
(i) Formulation of the Programs
5.01      The need to develop an efficient highway reconstruction and mainte-
nance program based on adequate policies and economic criteria was the basis
of the effort undertaken by SEOPC through its consultants DELCANDA International



- 36 -
(Transport Sector Study under IDB financing) and Roy Jorgensen Associates
(technical assistance for highway maintenance under Bank Loan 1316T-DO). The
formulation of the programs and the resulting proposed project were based
on the work of these two consultants and on confirmation studies of selected
road sections prepared by DELCANDA in April 1979.
5.02      Under the Transport Sector Study, a detailed economic analysis of
the road network was carried out which identified, on the basis of road
condition inventories and traffic, 163 sections requiring reconstruction.
After determining the costs of these reconstructions, and based on the
quantification of the direct benefits to be derived by the highway users,
a ranking determining the relative economic priority of nearly 100 sections
totaling 1,763 km of feasible roads was prepared. From this list, SEOPC
selected its current ten-year road reconstruction program, of which the first
tranche, consisting of high priority roads, would be financed under the project.
5.03      Under the technical assistance for highway maintenance, a detailed
economic analysis of the road system was carried out. This analysis, partly
based on the results of the Transport Sector Study, had as its objective the
formulation of optimum reconstruction/maintenance programs which minimize
total highlway transport costs, i.e., reconstruction investments, recurrent
maintenance costs and highway users' costs. A model covering the entire
national highway network analyzed 388 highway links and tested 38 different
investment programs with the objective of finding (a) the most economic
levels under which the backlog of existing highway reconstruction needs
could be tackled and (b) the proper maintenance program corresponding to
each reconstruction program tested. The constraints upon the model were
the availability of funds and the estimated capacity for reconstruction
works. A description of the model process is included in Annex 6. As a
result of this study, a definition of the reconstruction program (in terms
of yearly road lengths and investments) and a detailed maintenance program
corresponding to that reconstruction effort were prepared.
5.04      On the basis of the above definition of optimum reconstruction
programs (para 5.03) and the ranking of reconstruction needs by road sections
prepared under the Transport Sector Study (para 5.02), SEOPC defined a ten-year
road reconstruction program, including a detailed yearly program for 1980-1984
and its corresponding five-year road maintenance program (Table 5.1). The
roads selected for inclusion in the proposed Bank's reconstruction project
correspond to the high priority sections designated by SEOPC for implementa-
tion during the first two years (1980 and 1981) of the program. Subsequent
tranches of the program include the reconstruction of an additional 317 km
which are to be studied under the project.
5.05      For the 150 km of road reconstruction included in thie project,
detailed economic feasibility confirmation studies were carried out. These
studies, undertaken by consultant DELCANDA in April 1979, were based on cost
estimates resulting from detailed engineering designs under way and the
quantification of the direct benefits to be derived by highway users,
namely the vehicle operating cost savings through the improvement of road
conditions. The economic evaluations carried out for the definition of the
reconstruction and maintenance programs and the confirmation studies for the
roads under the project justify the costs and the investments to be financed
by the Bank project.



- 37 -
(ii) Traffic
5.06      Existing traffic volumes on the inventoried road network were
established through traffic surveys made in 1977 by consultants DELCANDA.
Confirmation and updating of these traffic counts were undertaken by special
surveys conducted by DELCANDA in February and March 1979. The data obtained
have been adjusted for seasonal variations and, in the case of the Santo
Domingo-Boca Chica road, for diversion of truck traffic from the coastal
parkway which it presently uses. In spite of the parkway being designed to
carry light vehicles only, trucks use it under a special temporary permit
because of the present very bad condition of the road to be reconstructed
under the project. Current traffic assigned to the various road sections
under the project varies from a high of 6,100 vehicles per day (25% heavy) 1/
on the Santo Domingo-San Isidro section to a low 500 vehicles per day (35%
heavy) on the Boca Chica-Los Llanos section. Traffic on the various sections
of the Santiago-San Francisco road varies between 4,000 and 1,500 vehicles per
day (VPD), and, on the San Juan-Las Matas road, approaches 1,100 VPD (Table 5.2).
In these cases, heavy traffic represents some 10% of the total, reflecting the
very poor condition of the roads, which makes heavy vehicle travel difficult,
and the general pattern of motorization in the Dominican Republic, with an
unusual predominance of smaller vehicles.
5.07      Estimates of total traffic used in the evaluation of the reconstruc-
tion projects vary, for 1985, from 8,500 VPD on the Santo Domingo-San Isidro
section to 800 on the Boca Chica-Los Llanos section (Table 5.2). The proposed
reconstruction, through reduction in vehicle operating costs, would, depending
on the road section and the type of vehicle, generate a traffic increase
estimated at 10% of normal traffic over the first three years after opening
of the road. Traffic was forecast for 20 years on the basis of historical
trends of various growth indicators first analyzed by the Transport Sector
Study. These indicators of traffic growth included regional growth patterns
and aggregate production and income trends as well as levels of motorization
and fuel consumption. They resulted in estimates of traffic growth rates
ranging between 5.5% and 7% annually up to 1991, depending on the road
sections, and inclid(le the traffic generation discussed above. For the years
beyond 1991, overall traffic growth rates have been forecast by the
consultants to decline, partly due to the larger traffic base attained and
partly due to a combination of factors, among which are the uncertainties
regarding future availability and cost of motor fuels on one hand, and, on the
other, the observed trend -- expected to be accelerated as a result of the
Government's substantial road reconstruction program -- toward replacement of
many small public vehicles with larger, more efficient, buses and trucks.
(iii) Benefits
5.08      The quantifiable benefits are measured by the direct savings to
be derived by highway users, namely vehicle operating cost savings. These
savings were determined by comparing the operating costs of three types
of vehicles (light vehicles, including pickups, buses and trucks) traveling
1/   Includes estimated truck diversion



- 38 -
on the network before and after various road reconstruction and maintenance
alternatives were implemented. For the project road reconstruction confirmation
studies, the same sets of vehicles were used in relation to operating costs
with and without the reconstruction. Estimates of vehicle operating costs
were prepared for seven types of vehicles, later combined into three, operating
on the three main types of surfaces -- paved, gravel and earth -- and three
types of terrain -- flat, rolling, and mountainous -- with the surface condition
in good, fair or poor state. A summary of vehicle operating costs is presented
in Table 5.3. These costs were adapted, in the road reconstruction confirmation
studies, to the particular characteristics of each section, including the
nature of the terrain (mostly flat) and the alignment of the road as it
influenced running speeds.
5.09      Passenger time savings as well as accident costs under the various
road conditions were not calculated. These benefits, although existing,
have not been quantified and are not reflected in the estimated economic
returns of the project. An analysis of passenger time savings was made, but
their economic value proved to be insignificant (less than 5% of benefits) in
comparison with vehicle operating cost savings. In addition to vehicle
operating cost savings, variations in road maintenance costs were included
in the model, which established in any year whether or not a link was receiving
preventive or temporary maintenance or being reconstructed. In the case of
reconstruction, adequate routine and periodic maintenance was included, and
the difference in maintenance costs between reconstruction and the "do-nothing"
alternative was recorded in the confirmation studies. In addition, in the
confirmation studies, vehicle operating cost increases during reconstructtori
due to detours, delays and rough temporary surfaces were computed.
(iv) Economic Returns
5.10      The proposed road maintenance and reconstruction program is well
justified with a benefit/cost (B/C) ratio of about 3.0 and a net present
value estimated at RD$ 240.0 million using a discount rate of 12% corres-
ponding broadly to recent estimates of the opportunity cost of capital.
The corresponding economic rate of return (ERR) is over 50%. Considered
independently, the B/C ratio for the road maintenance program, including
equipment spare parts and workshop tools under the project, all of which
account for 18% of the proposed road maintenance program cost, is estimated
at 5.8, the net present value at RD$ 180.0 million and the ERR at over
100%. This high ERR is caused by the relatively low investment required to
preserve the productive capacity of the large investments made in highway
construction. In turn, the B/C ratio for the reconstruction program is esti-
mated at 2.5, the net present value at RD$ 28.0 million and the ERR at about
23%.
5.11      The detailed economic feasibility analysis, carried out in the
confirmation studies for the reconstruction of the 150 km of roads under the
project, yielded overall ERRs based on best estimates of 23%. Particular road
sections yielded ERRs ranging from a high 40% for Santo Domingo-San Isidro
(10.3 km) to a low 15% for Salcedo-Tenares (7.3 km) and 13% for Boca Chica-Los
Llanos (10.3 km). Sensitivity analyses have been carried out on the main
parameters affecting the economic evaluation of these roads (costs and



- 39 -
benefits) showing that the ERR would, even under adverse assumptions, still
be acceptable (Table 5.4). This is particularly the case for the return of
the Boca Chica-Los Llanos section, which reflects a combination of conserva-
tive assumptions concerning future routing patterns.
(v) Benefit Distribution
5.12      The benefits resulting from savings in vehicle operating costs are
ultimately expected to be transferred, in large part, to the producers and
consumers of the goods which are transported. This is expected as a result of
the highly competitive nature of the transport industry (both for passengers
and cargo) in the Dominican Republic. The structure of the road transport
industry is based on a large majority of single owner operators, many with
small vehicles. Intense competition and the availability of better roads
resulting from the implementation of the maintenance and reconstruction
programs would very likely result in gradual reductions, at constant prices,
in the tariffs charged. This would have a direct impact on the economic
activity of the area of influence of the roads since most of the traffic is
related to productive activities and trade. The mobility of the populations
served by the improved roads would also be substantially enhanced. Not only
would their transport costs be reduced, but also additional benefits from
improved quality of service (comfort, safety, punctuality) and shorter travel
time would be derived.
5.13      Main commodities transported on the road sections to be reconstructed
are: (a) on the Santo Domingo-San Pedro road, sugarcane and sugar products (35%),
construction materials (30%), cement (20%), general merchandise and machinery
(9%), and agricultural produce (6%); (b) on the Santiago-San Francisco road,
agricultural produce (50%), 1/ general merchandise and machinery (35%),
construction materials (8%), and cement (7%); and (c) on the San Juan-Las Matas
road, agricultural produce (40%), 2/ general merchandise and machinery (25%),
construction materials (15%), cement (13%), and sugarcane and products (7%).
Savings in transport costs, resulting in lower tariffs, would therefore
benefit farmers, producers of agro-industrial products, the construction
industry and urban consumers. Reducing transport costs for passengers
would mainly benefit the population in the area of influence of the projects.
This population has been estimated in the confirmation studies to be about
64,000 rural families distributed as follows: 11,000 families on the
Santo Domingo-San Pedro road, 35,000 families on the Santiago-San Francisco
road, and 18,000 families on the San Juan-Las Matas road.
B.   Pilot Rural Road Program
(i) General
5.14      The program includes construction of some 200 km of roads selected
from an ample list contemplated by SEOPC for future construction. From this
list, a tentative list of roads was selected for the project on the basis of
1/   Of which 60% manioc and sweet potato
2/   Of which 55% rice, corn and manioc



- 40 -
a balanced geographical distribution and availability of surplus labor. The
program would be implemented in two phases: the first covering 50 km of
roads located in a specific region of the country (the northwest), for which
appropriate economic feasibility studies were prepared, and the second
covering 150 km to be studied as part of project implementation following
the methodology developed in the first phase. The economic evaluation of
the roads selected for the first phase was undertaken separately for each of
the five individual roads. 1/ It was based on the quantification of the
following benefits: (a) the expansion of agricultural production and change
of cropping patterns toward higher paying crops; (b) the reduction of
spoilage of produce because of the elimination of presently inadequate
or non-existent transport supply; and (c) the transport cost savings to
other road users.
5.15      The economic analysis was based on a comparison of the situation
"with" and "without" project implementation. It is estimated that the provision
of reliable, cheaper and efficient transport, combined with resulting improved
access to agricultural extension and credit services, would induce the target
group of beneficiaries to slowly change its present subsistence-type agricul-
ture into a more market-oriented type. These developments have been observed
in the past when, as in the area of influence of recently constructed rural
roads in the northwest, significant development has been initiated as a result
of the roads. In these cases, a considerable part of the development was
assisted by the Ministry of Agriculture's extension services, which included
these areas in its program and increased the frequency of visits because of
the road accessibility. The same role of extension services is expected
in the agricultural development of the project areas.
(ii) Benefits
5.16      The net agricultural value added is expected to arise from the more
intensive use of the land in the area of influence of the roads and the
opening of new potentially productive areas. In order to calculate the
value added accruing to the project, the area of influence of each road
(of which, on the average, some 40% is presently covered with natural pastures
and some 25% with pine forests), and the potential for additional land to
be brought under cultivation were evaluated. All the other economic
parameters, including cultivated area and cropping patterns, crop yields,
average farmgate prices, production costs, population, local consumption,
exportable surpluses and transport losses and cost of transport were
determined for each crop and road (details in Annex 7). The benefits were
measured as the net value of agricultural output at farmgate prices less
production costs, including all investments required other than the road
project.
(iii) Economic Costs
5.17      Costs used in the analysis include:  (a) road construction; (b) road
routine and periodic maintenance; and (c) incremental services of agricultural
extension. Construction and maintenance financial costs were determined for
1/   In fact, eight individual roads were studied, three of them proving
unfeasible at present.



- 41 -
each of the proposed roads under the alternative assumptions of standard
labor-intensive and equipment-intensive implementation. These costs were
estimated for the labor-intensive construction, on the basis of past experience
in similar countries and the Dominican Republic. For the equipment-intensive
construction, the costs were based on current costs of works being carried
out by SEOPC's General Directorate of Rural Roads.
5.18      Economic costs were based on the financial costs under labor-intensive
and equipment-intensive construction, with the incorporation of shadow pricing
for the two main cost components: labor and foreign exchange. Lack of adequate
employment opportunities constitutes a major problem to rural people in the
region, causing continuous migration to urban centers and a low population
increase of about 1.2% p.a. Seasonal unemployment is acute, with some 60% of
the rural population being affected. The shadow wage rate for rural unskilled
labor was estimated at RD$ 2.00 per day, which is 57% of the minimum official
salary for the agricultural sector (RD$ 3.50). The shadow foreign exchange
rate was estimated at RD$ 1.12, or 12% above the official exchange rate.
5.19      Incremental costs of agricultural extension were included in the
project cost. Additional attention would be given by the Ministry of
Agriculture extension services to the areas of influence of the project
roads once they are constructed. Most of the areas are today covered by
these extension services. Although the extension service workers would
spend roughly the same time as earlier in each of the areas, the improved
access is expected to allow the provision of the services with increased
frequency.
5.20      The financial cost comparison of both labor-intensive and equipment-
intensive road construction shows clearly that the latter would require fewer
funds. The cost of the financial subsidy required if labor-intensive methods
are used is estimated on 16% of the cost of equipment-intensive project
execution. The financial break-even cost of unskilled labor wages, which
equates project cost under labor-intensive construction with project cost
under equipment-intensive construction, is estimated at about RD$ 2.00 per
man-day, which corresponds to the estimated shadow wage rate of such labor.
A comparison of economic costs of labor-intensive and equipment-intensive
road construction, in turn, does not show clear differences in favor of
either of the technologies. However, this uncertainty about the advantages
of one technology over the other provides a sound reason for carrying out a
pilot program as proposed, especially in view of the Government's commitment
to a direct role in reducing the existing widespread unemployment (para 2.37).
(iv)   Distribution of Benefits
5.21      Successful project implementation would raise farm incomes, including
those of many families now having per capita incomes below RD$ 200, which is
at the absolute per capita poverty level. These families constitute a signif-
icant portion of the population in the proposed project areas. The project-
induced increase of net value of agricultural production accruing to them
averages 50 to 60% of total quantifiable benefits. Benefits to be derived
from reduction of spoilage of produce are mainly expected to accrue to
traders and intermediaries and would be partly passed on to consumers.
This accounts, on the average, for about 15 to 20% of total quantifiable
benefits.



- 42 -
5.22      The quantifiable benefits of the transport components, which
account for about 20 to 30% of total benefits, would initially accrue mainly
to traders and transporters, but are expected later to be passed on, to a
large extent, to consumers and vehicle users. General non-quantifiable
benefits, such as the increased mobility of the local population and the
increased availability of social services, would improve, in general, the
quality of life in the rural area served by the project roads and would
have a positive impact upon the country as a whole because of the reduction
of social disparities and the improved integration of the areas into the
national economy.
(v) Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
5.23      The proposed pilot rural road program, based on the results of the
analysis of 50 km of roads included in the first phase of implementation,
is well justified, with an ERR of 27% and a net present value (NPV) of
RD$ 658,000, which corresponds to an average of RD$ 13,000 per km of roads.
Since the criteria and methodology explained in the preceding paragraphs
and in Annex 7 would be employed in the selection of the 150 km under
phase 2, the ERR of phase 1 could be considered representative of the
ERR for the whole program. A summary of these results is provided in
Table 5.5. Two types of sensitivity calculations were carried out. The
first tested the effect upon the ERR of each individual road in the program
of using full financial labor costs of RD$ 3.50 per man-day. This test
was intended to check whether the road projects, even under full financial
costs for labor, are economically sound. The second type of sensitivity
analysis carried out consisted of testing the effect on the ERR of adverse
assumptions regarding construction cost increases (by 15%) and overall
benefit decreases (by 25%). Under this test, the ERR of the program re-
mained sound, at levels of 23% and 18%. The results of these two types of
sensitivity analyses indicate that neither the inclusion of full financial
labor costs nor the overall cost increases and reduction of benefits has an
impact on returns that would put into question the implementation of any of
the selected roads in the program.
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following:
(a)  a timetable for completion of a study by December 31, 1980 and
subsequent enacting of appropriate vehicle axle load and dimension
regulations by June 30, 1981 (para 2.15);
(b)  coordination of maintenance activities for secondary and
rural roads to be reviewed with the Bank not later than
December 31, 1981 (para 2.35);



- 43 -
(c) the Government to exchange views with the Bank annually,
at the time of preparation of the budget, on implementation
and financing of the 1980-1984 maintenance and reconstruction
programs and to give priority in planning highway capital
expenditures to the execution of the remaining tranche of the
Highway Reconstruction Program over other highway capital
expenditures not included in such program (para 4.05);
(d) terms of reference for construction supervision and related
technical assistance services (para 4.10);
(e) terms of reference, staffing and institutional arrangements
for proposed special Reconstruction Planning Unit; confirma-
tion that the Unit would be duly established by June 30, 1980
and fully staffed by December 31, 1980 and that it would be
adequately funded and equipped to carry out its task (para 4.11);
(f) the Government to pursue the countrywide implementation of
the maintenance system and prepare and adopt annual main-
tenance programs based on recommendations of the "Final
Report on Planning for Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation"
(dated January 12, 1979) (para 4.12);
(g) the Government to adopt, starting in FY1980, a budgeting system
by which the highway maintenance budget would be separated from
other SEOPC activities and would contain specific allocations for
labor, materials, equipment, fuel, administration and contracts
for periodic maintenance (para 4.13);
(h) equipment list and related procurement schedule (para 4.14);
(i) SEOPC to monitor on a continuing basis and assess annually, in
comparison with targets agreed with the Bank, the availability
and utilization of its equipment fleet (para 4.16);
(j) SEOPC to adopt adequate procedures by June 30, 1981 for systematic
renewal, overhaul and scrapping of its equipment fleet; resulting
plans to be discussed with the Bank at the time of review of the
annual maintenance program (para 4.16);
(k) detailed terms of reference for technical assistance for
highway maintenance (para 4.17);
(1) the Government to contract, not later than March 31, 1980,
consultants for technical assistance for highway maintenance
(para 4.17);



- 44 -
(m) the Government to review the requirements for technical
assistance for highway maintenance by December 31, 1980 after
consultation with the Bank (para 4.17);
(n) the Government to establish and equip the Training Production
Unit and provide adequate funds for its operation (para 4.19);
(o) terms of reference for technical assistance services for
training (para 4.20);
(p) SEOPC to arrange for the recruitment of Dominican instructors,
as needed, at the beginning of technical assistance services
(para 4.20);
(q) the Government to establish a Labor-based Construction Unit
within DGCV not later than June 30, 1980 (para 4.24);
(r) terms of reference and organizational arrangements for the
Pilot Rural Roads Program (para 4.24);
(s) the Government to review, from time to time, and jointly
with the Bank, the staffing of and the coordination among
the administrative subdivisions of SEOPC involved in the
project (para 4.31);
(t) project implementation schedule (para 4.32);
(u) bidding documents and model contracts for procurement
(para 4.33);
(v)  procurement arrangements for reconstruction works (para 4.34);
(w) terms of reference for consulting services for supervision
of reconstruction works and related technical assistance to
the General Directorate of Highways (para 4.35);
(x) terms of reference for proposed new contract for technical
assistance for the maintenance program (para 4.37);
(y) terms of reference and staffing schedule for the Pilot Rural
Roads Program (para 4.39); and
(z) purpose of the project indicators and scope of related reporting
requirements (para 4.40).



- 45 -
6.02      Employment of consultants for supervision would be a condition for
disbursement for the civil works under the road reconstruction component
(para 4.30).
6.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$35.0 million equivalent. The terms would be 17 years, including
a four-year grace period.
November 29, 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Suomary of Freight and Passenaer Traffic by Mode
Freight Transport
Domestic (million ton-km)                             International (thousand ton) -
Year   Highways   Railways   Aviation   Water   Pipelines   Total   Highways   Airports   Ports           Total
1970     507.0      1,771.0      -         11.3       2.1     2,291.4      2.3       20.3    3,980.6   4,003.2
1972     601.0      2,024.0      -         18.6       7.8     2,651.4      5.2       21.8    4,274.7   4,301.7
1974     945.0      2,024.0      -         23.5     20.5      3,013.0      2.4       27.9    4,965.6   4,995.9
1976   1,310.0      2,254.0      -         24.4     23.2      3,611.6      6.7       27.1    3,901.8   3,935.6
1978   1,545.0      2,443.0      -         20.0     24.3      4,032.3      8.9       39.4    3,905.0   3,953.3
Annual
Rate of
Growth  15.4%        4.5%        -         9.8%       _         7.4%      25.5%        10%      0.1%       0.2%
1970-78
Passenger Transport
Domestic (million pass -ki)                             International (thousand pass ) 3/
Year   Highways   Railways   Aviation   Water            Total       Highways 6/,Airports 4/  Ports 5/  Total
1970    2,208.0       -         0.02        -           2,208.0         -           401.5        4.5       406.0
1972    2,677.0       -         0.02        -           2,677.0         -           543.4       22.0       565.4
1974    3,342.0       -         0.02        -           3,342.0         -           738.1       74.3       812.4
1976    4,190.0       -         0.05        -           4,190.0          -          849.8      101.3       951.1
1978    4,942.0       -         0.04        -           4,942.0         -         1,020.0      155.9    1,175.9
Annual
Rate of   10.6%                  -          -            10.6%           -         12.4%        43Z       14.7%
Growth
1970-78
1/  Total imports and exports
2/ Excluding petroleum products transported by pipelines (1.3 million tons/year average)
3/ Total arrivals and departures
4/  Excluding in-transit passengers
5/  Tourists by cruisers
6/  Negligible
Source: Oficina Nacional de Estadistica, Estudio Tecnico-Economico del Sector
Transporte (SEOPC-DELCANDA Ltd), and Mission Estimates
July 1979



47 -                                   TABLE 1.2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
The Highway Network
(km)
Development of Highway Network
System                    1970       1972       1974       1976      1978
National               4,187      4,439      4,621     4,742      5,122
Feeder Roads           1,814      2,543      3,092     4,416      5,745
Total                  6,001      6,982      7,713     9,158    10,867
Inventory of Highway Network (1978)
Surface     Gravel
System                  Asphalt   Concrete   Treatment   and Earth    Total
National
Primary               767         295          489          -        1,551
Secondary             406          -           889          -        1,295
Tertiary               60          -         1,704         512       2,276
Feeder Roads
Improved               -                        -       3,795        3,795
Unimproved             -           -            -        1,950       1,950
Total                 1,233         295        3,082      6,257       10,867
Annual Average Daily Traffic in the Highway Network
by Type of Road Surface and Type of Vehicle
(1978)
Light Vehicles  Buses  Pickups  Trucks   Total
Paved (asphalt and concrete)         1,478        117      595      296    2,486
Surface treatment                      733         45     468       205    1,451
Gravel                                 229         17      279       65       590
Earth                                  126          9     130        31       296
Source: SEOPC, Oficina Nacional de Presupuesto and Mission Estimates
July 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Transport Infrastructure Investment by Mode in Comparison with Total
Public Sector Infrastructure Investment
(Millions of Pesos at Current Prices)
Summary of Three-
Year Public
Development Plan
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   19781/                 (1980-1982) 2/
Transport Sector
Highways  3/                       40.6   28.0   26.7   19.1   18.4   24.7   27.4   31.7   49.5   (12.7%)    63.5    (11.2%)
Railways                             -       _      _       _       _      _       _       _      _
Airports                            0.3    0.7    3.7    1.0    0.3    1.9    3.9    3.0    3.5    (0.9%)           7.00    (1.2%)
Ports                               0.1    0.1    4.1    5.7    3.4    3.0    1.8    2.8    2.7    (0.7%)    17.0 5   (3.0%)
Total                              41.0   28.8   34.5   25.8   22.1   29.6   33.1   37.5   55.7   (14.3%)    87.5    (15.4%)
Total Public Investment              96.6  120.6  161.5  171.5  224.8  342.5  293.3  343.0  388.6    (100%)   568.2            (100%)
Transport Sector Investment as
percentage of Public Investment  42.4%  23.9%  21.4%  15.0%   9.8%   8.6%  11.3%  10.9%  14.3%                     15.4%       -
Transport Sector Investment as
percentage of GNP                   2.8%   1.8%   1.7%   1.1%   0.8%   0.8%   0.8%   0.9%   1.2%                    -          -
1/  Estimate
2/ Annual average
3/ Includes interurban and rural roads, highway studies; excludes urban streets. These
investments comprise highway construction and reconstruction as per Table 2.4.
4/  Expansion of the Government-owned Dominican Aviation Co.
5/  Expansion of Puerto Plata (Phase 1) and Puerto de Haina.
Source: SEOPC, Oficina Nacional de Presupuesto, ONAPLAN and Mission Estimates
July 1979



- 49 -                                TABLE 1.4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimate of Transport Sector Expenditures -
(Millions of Pesos at Current Prices)
Year    Highways 2/ Railways    Airports    Ports    Pipelines          Total
1970      44.6          0.1          1.6        3.8          -          50.1
1971      32.4          0.1          2.0        3.8          -          38.3
1972      30.3          0.1          5.7        7.9         0.1         44.1
1973      23.2          0.1          3.2       10.6         0.1         37.2
1974      23.8          0.1          3.2        9.3        0.1          36.5
1975      30.0          0.1          5.0        8.4        0.1          43.6
1976      33.9          0.1          7.5        6.2        0.2          47.9
1977      42.9          0.1          6.7        8.2        0.2          58.1
1978      61.8          0.1          7.2        8.1        0.2          77.4
1/ Including investments, debt servicing and operational expenditures.
2/ These expenditures comprise highway investments plus highway
recurrent expenditures as per Table 2.4.
Source: SEOPC, Oficina Nacional de Presupuesto, Estudio Tecnico-Economico
del Sector Transporte (SEOPC-DELCANDA Ltd), and Mission Estimates
July 1979



-  50 -                            TABLE 2.1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicle Fuel Consumption
(Millions of US Gallons)
Year         Gasoline          Diesel              Total
1970            57.2            20.7                77.9
1971            62.5            25.7                88.2
1972            68.3            28.6               96.9
1973             73.5           31.4               104.9
1974            87.7            50.6              138.3
1975            99.0            65.2               164.2
1976           103.5            60.2              163.7
1977           102.6            63.0              165.6
1978           106.2            68.4               174.6
Annual Rate of Growth (total for gasoline and diesel)
1970-1978        8.0%           16.0%              10.9%
1974-1978        4.9%            7.9%                6.3%
Source: Banco Central, SEOPC, and Mission Estimates
July 1979



- 51 -                                  TABLF 2.2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicle Registration
(1960-1978)
Passenger          Trucks 1/
Year        Cars          Light & Heavy       Buses       Total
1960        9,879             3,852             359      14,090
1961        9,860             3,078             316      13,254
1962       14,044             6,968             398      21,410
1963       19,680             8,388             546      28,614
1964       26,040            10,633             899      37,572
1965       28,982             8,283             977      38,242
1966       25,399            11,226             982      37,607
1967       26,888            12,403             973      40,264
1968       29,093            14,892           1,014      44,999
1969       31,302            16,567           1,103      48,972
1970       38,212            19,285           1,146      58,643
1971       43,089            22,497           1,306      66,892
1972       49,811            22,868           1,092      73,771
1973       54,594            26,638           1,485      82,717
1974       66,157            30,312           1,545      98,014
1975       69,336            35,680           1,576    106,592
1976       79,563            39,125           2,100    120,788
1977       82,741            39,493           2,311    124,545
1978       87,767            46,160           2,462    136,389
Average rate
of growth
1960-1978       12.8%             14.6%            11.3%      13.3%
Average rate
of growth
1970-1978       11.0%              11.5%            10.0%     11.2%
1/ Includes pickups
Source: Secretaria de Estado de Finanzas
July 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicle Weight Control
Parking
Facility for
Type of                Type Vehicle                 Time of   No. Shifts  Overloaded
Station Location      Installation  Function    Weighed    In Operation  Operation   Employed   Vehicles
Existing
1. Duarte Highway                                      O 4            Yes        24             3           No
2. Sanchez Highway                                   0.   >           Yes        24             3           No
0   Z
3. Mella Highway                 X                                   No          24             3           No
In Construction.i/              -¢                  Pi °
4. San Francisco                            0            X           n.a.       n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
5. Santiago                                  u        OIX z         n.a.       n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Planned
6. Puerto Plata-                                                     n.a.       n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
Rio San Juan
1/ Scheduled to be put in service by December 1979.
Source: SEOPC
July 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimates of Highway Expenditures and Road Users' Contribution
(1970-1978)
(Millions of Pesos at Current Prices)
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
A.  Highway Expenditures 1!
Highway Studies                            2/      2/      2/     0.2    0.2    2/        2/     0.1    0.1
Highway Construction & Reconstruction  40.6   28.0   26.7   19.1   18.4   24.7   27.4   31.7   49.5 3/
Highway Maintenance and
Improvements 4                            2.5    2 9    2.1 / 2.4 / 3.6    3.5    4.3    6.7    8.6 5/
Highway Administration                     1.3-   163-   1.5    1.5 -  1.7    1.7    2.2    2.4    2.2
Interest on Foreign Loans                   -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -      -.1
Equipment                                  0.2    0.2       -      -      0.1    0.1       -     2.0    1.3
Total                                     44.6   32.4   30.3   23.2   23.8   30.0   33.9   42.9   61.8
B.  Motor Vehicle Contribution
Vehicle Registration and Licenses          5.3    4.9    6.0    8.5    9.8   10.8   11.4   12.0   13.0
Tolls                                       -       -      1.1    1.8    1.8    1.9    2.0    2.3    2.4               W
Import Duties on Vehicles                  2.6    3.2    3.8    5.9    9.4    8.0   11.2   21.6   11.5
Import Duties on Parts 7/                  1.3    1.5    1.7    2.2    2.8    3.5    4.1    4.9    4.6
Motor Fuel Taxes                          11.8   13.1   14.4   16.2   20.1   25.7   36.3   44.8   46.6
Tire Taxes 7/                              1.6    1.9    2.3    2.9    3.9    4.9    5.7    6.8   11.6
Total                                     22.6   24.6   29.3   37.5   47.8   54.8   70.7   92.4   89.7
1/ Includes rural roads
2/  Shown together with Highway Construction.  The figures for 1973-1974 and 1977-1978
include only foreign-financed studies.
3/  Actual amount January-August 1978 is RD$32.7 million.  Estimated amount September-
December 1978 is RD$16.8 million.
4/  Includes reconstruction of rural roads.  Annual average expenditure for rural road
reconstruction 1970-1977 is about RD$200,000.
5/  Of which 1.0 million is for reconstruction of rural roads.
6/  Estimates
7/  Estimates 1970-1976
Source: SEOPC, Secretaria de Estado de Finanzas, Rentas y Internas, Secretaria de
Industria y Comsrcio, Oficina Nacional de Presupuesto
July 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SEOPC's Design Standards
Design                                  Profile  Profile                                         Bridges
R.O.W.   Speed  Minim. Horiz.        Max          Grade    Grade    Roadbed   Pav't   Shoulder  Overall Design Load
Road Class        Meters    KPH   Curve Radius   Super Elev.          Max.  Ab sol.Max.  Width    Width    Width        Width    Factor
Mtr             %             %         %        Mtr                                      1.25
Primary             60       100         340            10             5         6        11         7        2         10.5    HS-20-44
Secondary           40       80          210            10             6         7         9.5      6.5       1.5       10.5    HS-20-44
Mountainous
Terrain           40       60          110            10             7         9        9.5       6.5       1.5       10.5    JS-20-44
Rural Roads
Normal              15       45          30            n.a.           12        12         7         5        1           -       H-15-44
Penetration         10       30          20            n.a.           16        16         6        4         1                   H-10-44
CROSS-SECTION SLOPES
Asphalt Conc. Pav't               2%
Surface Treat. Pav't              3%
Surface Treat. Shoulders          4%
Gravel Shoulders                  6%
Source:  SEOPC
July 1979



- 55 -                         TABLE 4.1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Five-Year Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Proram-  (1980-1984)
(DR$ million at 1979 values) 2
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984
A. Reconstruction Program
(a) Total SEOPC Program                       24.0      25.8      26.9      27.2     28.0
(b) Included in this project                    4.4     10.0      10.7        -        -
of which:
Bank                          2.9      6.6       7.0        -        -
GovernMtnt                    1.5      3.4       3.7        -        -
(c) Included in the Emergency Project          13.0      8.9       2.8       -         -
of which:
Bank                          7.8      5.3       1.6        -        -
Government                    5.2      3.6       1.2        -        -
(d) Not included in this or the Emergency
projects (program expenditures by
Government and other sources)              6.6       6.9      13.4      27.2     28.0
B. Maintenance Program
(a) Recurrent program expenditures -/           7.8      8.5       9.1       9.8     10.5
(b) Non-recurrent program expenditures          3.8      4.5       1.2        -       1.2
(b.1) Included in this project                  3.8      4.5       1.2        -        -
of which:
Bank                          3.6      4.3       1.1        -        -
Government                    0.2      0.2       0.1        -        -
(b.2) Not included in this project
(non-recurrent expenditures by
Government and other sources)             -         -         -        -        1.2
C.  Summary of Reconstruction and Maintenance Programs Budget
(a) Total programs budget                     35.6      38.8      37.2      37.0     39.7
(b.1) Recurrent expenditures by Government   7.8         8.5       9.1       9.8     10.5
(b.2)  Non-rpcurrent expenditures             27.8      30.3      28.1      27.2     29.2
of which:
Bank                         14.3     16.2       9.7        -        -
Government                   13.5     14.1      18.4      27.2     29.2
(c.1) Included in this project                  8.2     14.5      11.9        _        _
of which:
Bank                          6.5     10.9       8.1        -        -
Government                    1.7      3.6       3.8        -        -
(c.2) Included in the Emergency Project        13.0      8.9       2.8        -        -
of which:
Bank                          7.8      5.3       1.6        -
Government                    5.2      3.6       1.2        -        -
(c.3) Not included in this or the
Emergency Projects (Government
requirements)                           14.4      15.4      22,5     37.0      39.7
1/ Only road reconstruction and maintenance programs, excludes other project components
such as rural roads, personnel training and technical assistance.
2/ DR$1 - US$1.
3/ Including renewal of equipment.
Source: SEOPC and Mission
November 1979



- 56 -                                TABLE 4.2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Tranche of Reconstruction Program Included under the Project
Civil Works                        Length        Cost          Lot       Total Length       Cost
Km      DR$ million    Number            Km        DR$ million
Sto. Domingo-San Isidro             10.3          1.3           #1            29.4          4.4
San Isidro-Cruce Boca Chica         19.1          3.1
Cruce Boca Chica-Cruce Los
LTanos                            10.3          1.6
Cruce Los Llanos-San Pedro
de Macoris                        20.2          2.8           #2            35.2         5.2
Cruce Boca Chica-Cruce
Carretera Mella                    4.7          0.8
Santiago-Moca                       17.8          2.9           #3            32.5          5.1
Moca-Salcedo                        14.7          2.2
Saldedo-Tenares                      7.3          1.0           #4            21.8         2.7
Tenares-San Francisco de Macoris  14.5            1.7
San Juan-Las Matas de Farfan        31.5          3.7           #5            31.5          3.7
Sub-total                                                                    150.4         21.1
Supervision by Consultants                                                                  1.7
Total Base Cost  (November 1979)                                                          22.8
Contingencies:  physical (10%)                                                             2.3
price escalation (14% of total base cost plus phys. conting.)              3.5
Total Cost to Completion                                                                  28.6
Sources: SEOPC and Design Consultants
November 1979



TABLE 4.3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Tranche of Reconstruction Program to be Engineered under the Project
Highway                                  Approx.   Estimated      Preliminary
Length        1979       Estimation
(km)      Traffic       of B/C Ratio
Cruce Duarte-Jarabacoa                     22         1,400
Jarabacoa-El Rio                           21           650            1.6
El Rio-Constanza                           21           600
Loma de Cabrera-Restauracion               24           200            1.6
Barahona-Paraiso                           30           850
Paraiso-Enriquillo                         24           500
San Pedro-Ramon Santana                    16           550            2.0
Ramon Santana-Cruce Guerrero               22           450            5.5
Las Matas de Farfan-Elias Pina             19           950            2.5
Elias Pina-Hondo Valle                     33           200
Las Matas de Farfan-El Cercado             20           950            1.8
San Juan de la Maguana-Vallejuelo-
Neyba-El Abanico de Duverge                65           350
Total                          317
1/ Based on 1977 traffic counts.
Source: SEOPC and consultants DELCANDA Int. and Roy Jorgensen Ass. reports
July 1979



- 58 -
TABLE 4.4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
List and Cost Estimate of Equipment for Highway Maintenance,
Personnel Training, and Pilot Rural Road Program
No. of Units                     IJnit Cost       Total Cost
Equipment                          Total       Training       Maintenance      11979 prices)         USS
Dump Truck                            76           3              73                33,000        2,508,000
Lubrication Truck                      5           1               4                24,000          120,000
Asphalt Distributor Truck              2           1               1                44,000           88,000
Low-bed Trailer Truck                 4            -               4                90,C00          360,000
Motor Grader                          37           1              36                90,C000       3,330,000
Front Loader                          20           1              19                53,C00        1,060,000
Roller, Tandem 4-6T                   19           1              18                27,000          513,000
Pneumatic Roller                      3            -               3                21,000           63,000
Tip-Top Trailer                       14           1              13                12,000          168,000
Aggregate Spreader, Towed              4           -               4                 7,000           28,000
Aggregate Classifier (Portable)       4            -               4                15,000           60,000
Pick-up                               4            4               -                11,000           44,000
Station Wagon                          1           1               _                11,000           11,000
Total Equipment                                                                              8,353,000
Spare Parts for new Equipment (15%)                                                               1,253,000
Sub Total                                                                                    9,606,000
Tools and Workshop Equipment                                                                        600,000
Spare Parts for Overhauls                                                                           600,000
Misc. equipment and tools for Pilot
Rural Roads Program
Tippers, 5 m3                         12                                            16,000          192,000
Pickups, 1.5 tons                     10                                             9,000           90,000
Jeeps                                  2                                             6,000           12,000
Vibrating Rollers, 1 T                 6                                            12,000           72,000
Compressor, 3500 1/m                   2                                            12,000           24,000
Agricultural Tractor                   3                                            10,000           30,000
Trailers                               3                                             1,500            4,500
Water Tank Trailers                    3                                             1,500            4,500
Misc.                                                                                 -             . 1,00
Sub Total
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                  11,222AQ22
Source: SEOPC and Mission
November 1979



- 59 -
TABLE 4.5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Tentative Rural Roads Construction Program (1980-1932)
Length         Total Costs
A.   Civil Works                                        Km          (DR$ million)
First Phase (1980-1981)
Dajabon-Campeche                                  13.5
Hipolito Billini-Fondo Grande                      4.0
Loma de Cabrere-Castellar                          5.5
Maguanita-La Lenor-Cidra de Thomas                20.0
El Pino-Manaclitas                                 9.5
Sub-total                                   52.5              0.66
Second Phase (1981-1983)
Construction in other areas                      147.5             1.80
Total Construction                          200.0             2.46
B.   Supervision and Administration                                     0.26
C.   Technical Assistance                                               0.52
Base Costs (November 1979)                                    3.24
D.   Physical Contingencies (10% of A, B & C)                           0.32
Sub-total                                                     3.56
Price escalation (14%)                                              .50
Total Cost                                                    4.06
Source: SEOPC, Mission
November 1979



- 60 -                            TABLE 4.6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Quarterly
Disbursement                  Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year 1980               US$ Million                   Disbursements
1980
June      1980                          0.1                              0.1
1981
September 1980                          0.4                              0.5
December  1980                           3.0                             3.5
March      1981                         3.1                              6.6
June      1981                          5.0                             11.6
1982
September 1981                          5.0                             16.6
December  1981                          5.0                             21.6
March      1982                         4.0                             25.6
June      1982                          3.0                             28.6
1983
September 1982                          2.6                             31.2
December  1982                          2.5                             33.7
March      1983                          1.0                            34.7
June      1983                          0.2                             34.9
1984
September 1983/June 1984                0.1                             35.0
Loan effectiveness                 - April/May      1980
Invitation to Bid                  - January        1980
Technical Assistance begins        - April          1980
Civil Works begin                  - September      1980
Delivery of Equipment starts       - October        1980
Source: Mission estimates
November 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Schedule of implamentatior.
1980            /         1981            /         19'?            /         1S33             /         1984
J/F/. IA/M/JjJ/A/S O/N/D J/i/M/A/Yi/J J/A/SJO/N/D/J/F/M A/M1J/JiA/S  /N/D J/F/M A/N/J/J/A/S! /N/D/iJ/F/A/M/J J/A/S O/NI-D
Loan Agreement & Effectiveness
1. aeconst'n Componrent Prog,_
a.Civil Works
Advertising thru contract
Mobilization & Const.
b.Supervision                                    _                       _             .
c.Tachnical ass-stant to
I      reconst. unit_
d.Road recunstructior.
engineer:ng
2. Maintenance Program
a.Maintenance works
b.Purchase of equipment
Advertising thru contract                  _
Equipment deliveries                               -      -                         -
c.Technical assistance                      L      I            I
d.Training of personnel
3. Rura1 Rcads Program
a. Civil works                                         _   =       -      -     -      -      =     -     -
b. Technical assistance and
supervis ior-
Selection of consulrants
Source: SEOPC and Mission
November 1979



- 62 -                                 TABLE 5.1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                            Page 1
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Road Reconstruction Program
Investments (RD$ Millions)                     Financed
Length                                       1985 &             Under
Road Sections                   (km)   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984    after   Total   Project
Cruce Boca Chica-Carretera Mella (c)          5     0.2    0.3   0.3                               0.8       II
Cruce Boca Chica-Cruce de San Pedro de
Macoris (c)                                 30     0.7    1.7    2.0                              4.4       II
Santo Domingo-San Isidro-Cruce
Boca Chica  (c)                             29     0.7    1.7    2.0                              4.4       II
Santiago-Moca-Salcedo-Tenares-San
Francisco de Macoris (c)                    54     1.4    3.2    3.2                              7.8       II
San Juan de la Maguana-Las Matas de
Farfan (c)                                  32     0.7    1.5    1.5                              3.7       II
Azua-Barahona                                64     5.0    3.5    0.4                              8.9        E
Cruce Guayacanes-Esperanza-Mao-Santiago
Rodriguez-Santiago de la Cruz               86     6.0    4.0    2.0                            12.0         E
Cruce de Azua-San Juan de la Maguana         68     4.0    3.0    2.5                             9.5
Hato Mayor-Seybo-Cruce El Pintado            35     1.5    1.9    1.5                              4.9
Cruce Guerra-Bayaguana                       35            0.9    4.0                             4.9
Hato Mayor-Sabana de la Mar                  45                    3.2    3.1                     6.3
Cruce Cabral-Cabral                          10                           1.4                     1.4
Villa Mella-La Victoria                      10                           1.4                      1.4
El Abanico-Villa Riva-Arenoso-Rincon
de Molinillos-Cafno Abajo                   25                           3.5                     3.5
Cabral-Duverge                               39                           5.5                      5.5
Las Matas de Farfgn-Elias Pifia (e)          19                           2.7                      2.7
Seybo-Miches                                 45                           51.3   1.0              6.3
Elias Pinia-Hondo Valle (e)                  33                                  4.6               4.6
Las Matas de Farfan-El Cercado (e)           20                                  2.8               2.8
Duverge-Jimani                               37                                  5.2               5.2
San Juan de la Maguana-Vallejuelo-Neyba-
El Abanico de Duverge (e)                   65                                  5.5    3.6       9.1
Barahona-Paraiso-Enriquillo (a)              54                                  1.5    6.0        7.5
Jarabacoa-El Rio-Constanza (e)               48                                  1.0    5.7        6.7
Cruce Duarte-Jarabacoa (e)                   24                                 1.0    2.4        3.4
San Pedro de Macoris-Ramon Santana-
Cruce Guerrero (e)                          38                                  1.0    4.3       5.3
Cruz de Islefio-Miches                       79                                        11.1       11.1
(c)  Construction under the Project
(e)  Engineering studies under the Project.
It:  Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project
E:  Emergency Road Reconstruction Project



- 63 -                                 TABLE 5.1
page Z
Investments (RD$ Millions)
Length                                     1985 &
Road Sections                    (km)  1980   1981  1982   1983   1984    after        Total
Cruz de Islenio-Macao                        20                                          2.8        2.8
Bayaguana-Yubina-Pulgarin-Los Cacaos-
Yerba Buena-Hato Mayor                      53                                          7.4        7.4
Enriquillo-Oviedo-Pedernales                 82                                         11.5       11.5
Boca de Cachon-Tierra Nueva-Las Lajas        19                                          2.7        2.7
Cardon-El Puente-Cabeza de Toro-El
Granado-Batey 2                             43                                          6.0        6.0
Hondo Valle-La Descubierta                   51                                          7.1        7.1
Palo Alto-Batey 2-Galvan-Neyba-La
Descubierta-Jimani                          98                                         13.8       13.8
Santiago Rodriguez-Guayubin-Villa Sinda    36                                            5.0        5.0
Santiago de la Cruz-Loma de Cabrera-
Restauracion-Villa Anacaona-Pedro
Santana-Banica (e)                         111                                         13.6      13.6
Villa Elisa-El Papayo-Estero Hondo-
La Isabela                                  36                                          5.0        5.0
Imbert-Guananico-El Mamey-Cruz de
Guayacanes                                  42                                          5.9        5.9
La Isabela-Castillo de la Isabela-
Luperon                                     18                                          2.5        2.5
El Mamey-La Isabela                          11                                          1.5        1.5
Imbert-Luperon                               25                                          3.5        3.5
Monte Cristy-Dajabon                         33                                          4.6        4.6
Cevicos-Villa Riva                           23                                          3.2        3.2
Tenares-Gaspar Hernandez                     39                                          5.5        5.5
Santiago-Penia-La Gran Parada                45                                          6.3        6.3
Santiago-Jacagua-Rio Arriba                  25                                          3.5        3.5
Villa Bisono-Loma del Aguacate-Guananico   23                                            3.2        3.2
Constanza-Valle Nuevo-San Jose de Ocoa       87                                         12.3       12.3
Total Base Cost                                 20.2   21.7  22.6   22.9  23.6  160.0        271.0
Supervision (8%)                                1.6    1.7   1.8       1.8   1.9   12.8       21.6
Physical Contingencies (10%)                     2.2    2.4   2.5    2.5    2.5   17.3        29.3
Total Cost                                      24.0   25.8  26.9   27.2   28&0  190.1       321.9
Total Length (km)                     1,949      142    153   165   166    167   1,155
Source: SEOPC
October 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Reconstruction Components
Traffic Flows (AADT)
Length              Actual (1979)                       Estimated (1985)
Section                (km)    Light Veh.  Buses   Trucks   Total    Light Veh.  Buses   Trucks   Total
Santo Domingo-San Isidro            10.3      4,790       200      570    5,560       6,670       270    1,540 -/ 8,480
San Isidro-Cr. Boca Chica           19.1        260        -       220       480        360        20    1,060 1/ 1,440
Cr. Boca Chica-Cr. Los Llanos       10.3        330        -       180       510        470        20      260       750
Cr. Los Llanos-Cr. San Pedro        20.2        320        -       420       740        440        20      580    1 ,040
Boca Chica-Cr. Boca Chica            4.7        610        10      390    1,010         840        20      750-.  1,610
Total              64.6
Santiago-Moca                       17.8      3,760        30      260    4,050       5,230        40      360    5,630
Moca-Salcedo                        14.7       1,790       10      170    1,970       2,540        20      250    2,810    O
Salcedo-Tenares                      7.3      1,440        10      100    1,550       2,040        20      150    2,210
Tenares-San Francisco               14.5      1,460        10      120    1,590       2,080        10      170    2,260
Total              54.3
San Juan-Las Matas                  31.5        970        -       110    1,080       1,370        10      160    1,540
1/ Includes truck diversion from coastal parkway
Source: SEOPC traffic surveys, DELCANDA confirmation studies
and Mission Estimates
July 1979                                                                                                                 H
t!1
1.1



- 65 -                              TABLE 5.3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs l/
(RD$/km)
Road Surface and Condition2/  Light Vehicles         Buses     Trucks
Paved
Good                          0.07            0.18       0.23
Fair                          0.08            0.22       0.28
Bad                           0.11            0.36       0.46
Gravel
Good                          0.09            0.26       0.33
Fair                          0.10            0.33       0.43
Bad                           0.14            0.47       0.63
1/ At 1979 values, economic costs including drivers' salaries for
buses, trucks and public light vehicles. "With project" costs
are those of paved - good condition; "without project" costs are
paved or gravel in fair or bad condition depending on the
inventory condition for the specific section.
2/ Costs were developed for different types of terrain -- only
average values shown here.
Source: Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study, Roy Jorgensen
Associates, Economic Confirmation Studies, DELCANDA Int.,
and Mission Estimates
July 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Summary of Maintenance Program and Reconstruction Project Economic Evaluation
Total Cost              Economic Evaluation
(RD$ million) 1/       Based on Best Estimates.3/  Sensitivity Analysis  (ER)
Component                    Financial   Economic 2/  B/C Ratio 4/ NPV 5/ ER 6   Costs + 15%   Benefits - 25%
Maintenance Program 7/                 56.4        52.3             5.7    177.5  100         >100             7.100
Reconstruction Project
Santo Domingo-San Isidro              1.6         1.3             7.3      7.7   40            38                35
San Isidro-Cr. Boca Chica             3.6         2.9             1.4      1.2   16            15                13
Cr. Boca Chica-Cr. Los Llanos         1.9         1.5             1.1      0.1   13            11                10
Cr. Los Llanos-Cr. San Pedro          3.4         2.7             2.0      2.5   20            18                16
Boca Chica-Cr. Boca Chica             0.9         0.7             2.2      0.9   25            22                20
Total road              11.4         9.1            2.4      12.4   24            22                19
Santiago-Moca                         3.4         2.7             3.5      6.4   27            25                23
Moca-Salcedo                          2.7         2.2             2.3       2.6   22           20                18
Salcedo-Tenares                       1.3         1.0            1.3       0.3   15            13                12
Tenares-San Francisco                 1.9         1.5             2.4       2.0   22           21                19
Total road               9.3         7.4             2.6     11.3   23            22                20
San Juan-Las Matas                    4.4         3.5             2.3      4.1   22            20                18
Total recons. project 25.1          20.0            2.5      27.8   23            21                19
Grand Total (Maintenance Program
and Reconstruction
Project)                 81.5        72.3             4.6    205.3  w100         -'100             100
1/ Based on June 1979 cost estimates, including 10% physical contingencies and project supervision.
2/ Financial coat net of taxes.
3/ Basis for best estimates: (i) costs and benefits in 1979 prices; (ii) benefits include
savings in vehicle operating costs, including professional drivers' salaries and road
maintenance costs; (iii) reconstruction period two years; (iv) economic life of recon-
struction 20 years; (v) annual traffic per Table 5.1.
4/ Benefit/cost ratio discounted at 12 % rate.
5/ Net present value in RD$ millions.
6/ Economic return.
7/ Total five-year program cost including equipment, spare parts and tools purchases.
Source: Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Study, Roy Jorgensen Ass., Economic
Confirmation Studies, DELCANDA Int., and Mission Estimates
July 1979
41



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Pilot Rural Roads Program
Results of Economic Evaluation
Economic Evaluation Based 3/
Financial 1/       Economic 2/   on Labor-intensive Methods    Sensitivity Analysis (ER)
Length        Cost.             Cost                                         Full Labor Costs   Bene.
Component             (km)   (RD$ thousand)   (RD$ thousand)   B/C ratio 4/ NPV 5/    ER          Fin. Cost   +15%    -25%
First Phase
Dajabon-Campeche               13.5        154.7              139.0           1.5        100       24          22        20       16
Hipolito Billini-Fondo
Grande                       4.0          69.2              56.0            1.7        60        28          22        23       18
Loma de Cabrera-Castellar       5.5         37.4               35.0           3.9        160      >50         '50       >50       50
Maguanita-La Leonor-Cidra
de Thomas                   20.0         302.9             272.0           2.2        390        32          29        28       24
El Pino-Manaclitas             9.5          90.3               77.0           1.3         40       19          16        15       11
Total              52.5        654.5              579.0           2.0        750        32          29       28       23
Second Phase
Rural roads 7/               147.5       1,838.8           1,627.0            2.0     2,100         32         29
Total Program  7/               200.0      2,493.3            2,206.0           2.0      2J850        32          29
1/  Based on June 1979 cost estimates for labor-intensive construction methods (wages at RD$3.50 per day),
including     physical contingencies and        engineering and supervision.
2/  Financial cost net of taxes and with shadow prices for labor and foreign exchange.
3/ Based on: (i) costs and benefits at June 1979 prices; (ii) benefits include value added to agricultural
production, reduction of spoilage of produce and transport cost savings to other road users; (iii) construction
period one year; (iv) economic life of roads ten years.
4/  Benefit/cost ratio discounted at 12% rate.
5/ Net Present Value (RD$ thousand).
6/ Economic Return.
7/ Second phase costs are based on costs per km estimates of the first phase. Economic evaluation of total
program based on results for the first phase.
Source: Rural Roads Department, SEOPC, Consultant Merks Study, and Mission Estimates
July 1979



- 68 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Civil Works Supervision of Reconstruction Program
1.        SEOPC will contract an international consulting firm in joint
venture with Dominican consultants for the supervision of the 150 km of
reconstruction roads.
2.        SEOPC will require the consultants to furnish engineering and
management services to ensure an efficient and sound inspection policy for
the execution of civil works in accordance with approved engineering designs.
These services will include, but not be limited to:
(a) review of bids received from contractors and recommendations
to SEOPC regarding award of contracts;
(b) review of proposed schedules and procedures with recommendations
for inspection and construction, quality control, measurements of
partial and final quantities, acceptance of completed work and
payments to contractors;
(c) providing technical advice and assistance to SEOPC inspection
personnel;
(d) review of work certifications and recommendations to SEOPC for
payments to contractors;
(e) carrying out all necessary engineering tests of materials
employed in construction with regard to their conformance with
design specifications; and
(f) preparing monthly reports on the progress of works for
transmittal to the Bank through SEOPC. These reports should
include, for each contractor, a list of equipment on work site
and its condition.
3.        No work order changes which would constitute a modification of
engineering designs will be permitted without written authorization from
SEOPC.
4.        The consultants will furnish adequate transportation for their
personnel, furnish and maintain a soil laboratory properly equipped for the
required testing of materials, and will also provide the necessary administra-
tive and logistical support.



- 69 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        Adequate records of the consultants' daily administrative and
technical activities will be available to SEOPC and the Bank upon request.
6.        Personnel required for supervision must include the following
qualified staff:
(a) project coordinator - a civil engineer with a minimum of 10 years
of combined field and office experience in the supervision of
highway construction and design. Background must include
ability to review contractor capabilities in evaluation of
construction schedules and to propose modifications of basic
designs. Must have knowledge of engineering materials used in
highway construction. Project coordinator will be responsible
for the overall performance of resident engineers under his
authority.
(b) resident engineers - must have at least five years of field
experience in supervision of highway construction and possess good
knowledge of testing of construction materials in accordance with
SEOPC specifications.
(c) pavement engineer - must have a minimum of five years of experience
in pavement design and possess adequate know-how for the preparation
and application of bituminous materials; he must also have practical
knowledge of all pertinent testing procedures as per SEOPC specifi-
cations.
(d) technical personnel - including soil and bituminous materials,
lab personnel, topographers, fill and pavement inspectors;
should have demonstrable experience on similar type projects.
Supervision Personnel                             Man-months
(for 5 Construction Lots)
1  Chief Engineer                                    24
5  Resident Engineers                               120
5  Soils and Materials Engineers                    120
Sub-total                   264
15  Inspectors                                       270
5  Lab Crew
5  Topographic Crew
15  Drivers                                          360
5  Administrators                                   120
Total:                    1,014
September 1979



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Outline Organization and Staffing of the
Road Reconstruction Planning Unit
1.   Objectives
To plan, program and study the economic feasibility of road recon-
struction projects and to advise and support the local consultants engaged in
detailed engineering design for road construction.
The Unit is under the authority of the General Director of Planning
and Programing (GDPP) in the Secretary of Public Works and Communications
(SEOPC).
2.   Work Program
The Unit will assist GDPP in developing and evaluating the long-term
(five-year) road reconstruction plans and the short-term (one-year) road
reconstruction detailed programs. In particular, the Unit will execute the
following:
(a)   formulate the road reconstruction programs on the basis of the
road inventories, road traffic surveys and other pertinent
information prepared by the General Directorate of Highways
and the road maintenance programs prepared by the Sub-Directorate
of Maintenance, all of which it will coordinate, review and
cause to be updated as required;
(b)   prepare detailed economic feasibility confirmation studies for
each of the roads considered for reconstruction in the short-
term program;
(c)   coordinate, orient and support the road reconstruction engineer-
ing work carried out by local consultants under the General
Directorate of Highway's supervision and, in particular,
review the final cost estimate;
(d)   formulate detailed road reconstruction budgets taking into
account the economic feasibility analysis, the detailed
engineering cost estimates, the implementation capacity and
the resources available; and



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(e) prepare road reconstruction implementation programs, and
provide guidance and assistance to the General Directorate
of Highways during the implementation of the programs.
3. Staffing
The professional staff required would be the following:
SEOPC Personnel (Permanent)
1    Unit Chief, Engineer/Planner
1    Economist
Support staff (junior engineer, assistant analyst, secretaries)
Internationally Recruited (one year)
1    Transport Economist/Planner        12 man-months
I    Senior Highway Engineer             3 man-months
The internationally recruited experts would be provided under the project.
GDPP will provide the Unit with all professional staff, supporting staff,
office and miscellaneous requirements.
4. Schedule for Establishment
The Unit would be established by June 30, 1980 and fully staffed
by December 31, 1980. The Unit would be regarded as established when the
SEOPC permanent professional staff (Unit Chief and Economist) are in place.
November 1979



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
for the Maintenance Program
1.   Objectives
Technical assistance for the Maintenance Program would assist
SEOPC in consolidating institutional improvement initiated under the First
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. The principal objectives are:
(a) to implement the proposed organization and procedures for
highway maintenance;
(b) to implement proposed management systems for planning,
budgeting, scheduling, directing and controlling of
maintenance and betterment works;
(c) to implement improvements for the management of the SEOPC
equipment fleet with special emphasis on its availability
and utilization; and
(d) to apprise SEOPC of project manpower requirements and of
related training requirements showing the number of personnel
needed in each work category; this will be necessary for the
Personnel Training Program carried out under the responsibility
of the Director General of Roads.
2.   Scope of Consulting Services
The consultants shall assist SEOPC in the implementation of practices
proposed under the First Road and Maintenance Project for organization and
management of maintenance operatLons. This work will comprise:
(i) Maintenance Organization and Management
(a) implementing an organizational framework for field and
office practice in all maintenance districts and ayudantias
which were not included in the First Road and Maintenance
Project;
(b) assisting as necessary in the preparation of road
inventories, traffic studies and other work to properly
implement highway maintenance practices; and



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(c) implementing recommended management practices for
scheduling and controlling execution of road
maintenance and betterment works.
(ii) Maintenance Program and Identification of Rehabilitation Requirements
(a) providing assistance to SEOPC in the use of the computer
program developed by R. Jorgensen and Associates during the
First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project;
(b) assisting in the preparationt of ecoaomic analyses to
determine appropriate maintenance levels of service
and priorities for rehabilitation and betterment work;
(c) assisting in the planning of annual programs of specific
maintenance, betterments and rehabilitation needs and the
cost estimates of these programs for the national and
feeder roads networks.
(iii) Equipment and Workshops
(a) revising and updating equipment fleet condition and
utilization inventories with a detailed survey of
equipment requiring major overhaul;
(b)  assisting in reviews of equipment needs for scheduled
highway maintenance and in the preparation of equipment
replacement schedules;
(c) implementing Jorgensen's proposed system for preventive
maintenance of equipment;
(d) implementing improved workshop organization and
management practices for servicing and repairs of
equipment; and
(e) when required by SEOPC, assisting in the preparation
of bidding documents and evaluation of proposals from
suppliers of vehicles, equipment and spare parts.
(iv) Administration and Accounting
(a) assisting in implementation of proposed storage and
distribution of spare parts, materials ard supplies;
(b) assisting in implementing proposed general accounting
practices appropriate to support maintenance management
systems; and



- 74 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(c) assisting in implementing the system for performance-
based budgeting which relates budgeted funds to specific
accomplishments.
(v) Personnel Training
To reassess the present and future manpower training needs, to serve
as a basis for the personnel training program under separate terms of
reference, the consultants will assist SEOPC in:
(a) the compilation of data on maintenance personnel,
including place of work, level of skills, capabilities
and their tranability;
(b) the preparation of the Personnel Training Program
as needed;
(c) helping with the formulation of courses for local
instructors; and
(d) monitoring the results of training through evaluation
of actual field performance of trainees and feeding back
such information to the Training Unit as appropriate.
3.   Staffing
The following specialists would be required:
Position                                Man-months
Project Manager/Maintenance Specialist                   16
Maintenance Specialist                                   12
Accounting Specialist                                    3
Specialist in Adminisgration                             3
Equipment and WorkshoH Specialist                        12
Total                                       46
4.   Schedule
The project will be carried out over a period of 21 months (Chart 1
of this annex) and will include:
(a) implementation of improvements proposed as a result of the
First Highway and Maintenance Study;
(b) assisting maintenance districts in carrying out their work
in accordance with the methods proposed;
(c)  nationwid. implementation of organizational improvements and
working methoLs; and



- 75 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
(b) assisting maintenance districts in carrying out their work
in accordance with the methods proposed;
(c) nationwide implementation of organizational improvements and
working methods; and
(d) feedback on all aspects of project implementation and its
effectiveness.
Reports summarizing past accomplishment as well as operational problems
associated with the tasks of implementation of institutional improvements
proposed under the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project should be
submitted to SEOPC every two months. Problems should be clearly identified
to permit a formulation of measures necessary to overcome them and to proceed
with the scheduled implementation.
5.   Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
SEOPC will be the contracting agency. Counterpart personnel will
be provided from among permanent employees of SEOPC to work together with
the consultants.



- 76 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
Outline of Job Description for Project Manager
1.   Title:                       Project Engineer
2.   Qualification:                Should be a qualified professional
civil engineer with experience in
highway maintenance of paved, gravel
and earth roads and extensive experi-
ence in operational and administrative
aspects of road maintenance. Must
have acceptable proficiency in Spanish
and ability to communicate, especially
with field personnel.
The principal function of the project manager will be to assist
SEOPC in the implementation of proposed institutional improvement necessary
in the area of highway maintenance. His responsibilities will include
coordinating the work of the consultants' team, the execution of related
administrative tasks, and, in part, assisting the maintenance engineer in
field work.
The project manager will, among other things:
(a) assist in the preparation of reports required for management
purposes and budgetary controls;
(b) assist in updating the highway maintenance program considering
recent hurricane damage and planning of appropriate maintenance
measures;
(c) monitor execution of highway maintenance to check if recommenda-
tions of the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project
are being implemented;
(d) assist in implementation of the proposed improvements at the
levels of ayudantias and the districts;
(e) collaborate with the Personnel Training Program group for
maintenance personnel and equipment operators and provide
the necessary feedback to permit timely review necessary
to ensure the success of the program; and
(f) prepare well documented bi-monthly reports presenting an
in-depth analysis of accomplishments, shortcomings and the
reasons, and suggest measures to correct problems which
impede proper implementation of institutional changes
proposed under the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruc-
tion Project and accepted by SEOPC.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
Outline of Job Description for Equipment Specialist
1.   Title:                       Equipment Workshop Specialist
2.   Qualifications:              Professional mechanical engineer
with experience in the operation
and management of equipment fleets
and workshops, including road
construction/maintenance plant and
vehicles, stocking and distribution
of spare parts.
The primary responsibility of the equipment and workshop specialist
will be to implement working methods and procedures for equipment management
and operation of workshops which were proposed by Jorgensen and accepted
by SEOPC under the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project.
The candidate for this position must have acceptable fluency in
Spanish and an ability to communicate with personnel in the field where
the specialist's presence will be mostly required.
The specialist's tasks will include, but not be limited to:
(a)  collaborating with the Personnel Training Program group for
maintenance personnel and equipment operators and providing
the necessary feedback to permit timely review necessary to
ensure the success of the program;
(b)  implementing programs, at the level of maintenance districts
and ayudantias, which were designed for efficient workshop
administration, efficient equipment repairs, and scheduling
of equipment renewal and implementation of procedures for
scrapping of obsolete units;
(c)  coordinating programs for utilization of equipment with provincial
engineers;
(d)  assisting in evaluation of equipment condition and location
inventories prepared by local engineers; and
(e)  assisting in the preparation of equipment specifications for
equipment units to be purchased and demonstrating required
inspection procedures after equipment is received.
October 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Maintenance Program
Consultants' Personnel Assignment Calendar
Positin .1980                                 /         1981               Total
Position                J/F/M/A/M/J/J/A/S/O/N/D/J/F/M/A/M/J/J/A/S/O/N/D   Man-Month
Project Manager                                   _                                       16
Maintenance Specialist                                                                    12
Accounting Specialist                                                                      3
Administration Specialist                                                                  3
Equipment & Workshop Specialist                                                           12
Total                                                                          46
Source: SEOPC and Mission
November 1979



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
for the Personnel Training Program
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Secretary of Public Works and Communications (SEOPC) plans
to carry out a four-year (1981-1984) program for the training and upgrading
of personnel at all levels engaged in road maintenance. The training program
will consist of:
(a) strengthening the Training Section of SEOPC;
(b) establishing a small center for the training of
mechanics at Sanchez; and
(c) setting up and operating a mobile Training Production
Unit (TPU) for the training of road foremen/overseers,
equipment operators/drivers and certain levels of
mechanics.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The objectives of the technical assistance services are to:
(a) review the manpower requirements for the five-year road
maintenance and rehabilitation program (1980-1984) and
update the inventory of all maintenance personnel;
(b) design detailed training and upgrading programs aimed at
producing qualified personnel required to implement the
maintenance and rehabilitation program;
(c) implement the program and, at the same time, provide
on-the-job training for Dominican counterparts and
instructors; and
(d) review training and personnel policies affecting recruitment,
career development, salaries, and a system of incentives for
the successful completion of training courses.



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
III. SCOPE AND SERVICES
General
3.        The technical assistance will begin in the second part of 1980 to
organize and prepare the four-year training program which should be
fully in operation at the beginning of 1981. The technical assistance
will consist of:
(a) a training advisor (expatriate) responsible for designing the train-
ing programs, supervising their implementation and upgrading the
Chief of the Training Section. He should also advise SEOPC regarding
a reorganization of all personnel actions related to staff development;
(b) two road engineers (Chief of TPU, expatriate, and Deputy, Dominican),
a senior instructor for operators and drivers (Dominican) to run TPU
and train assistant instructors; and
(c) a senior instructor (expatriate) and deputy (Dominican) to train
mechanics and assistant instructors at Sanchez.
4.        Technical assistance experts will be responsible for all aspects
of the training program and be associated with the Director General of Highways.
They will coordinate their work with the Chief of the Training Section and
engineers in charge of road maintenance and rehabilitation in the districts
and ayudantias. The functional character of this program will require that
the goals relating to the number of people trained for different job
categories be in consonance with the current and future needs of the road
maintenance programs set by DGC. The success of the execution of the train-
ing program will depend upon thorough coordination of the center and TPU's
activities with the Director responsible for field maintenance to ensure that
equipment for training mechanics and operators is available and operable
when needed and that there are jobs to perform when trainees are sent into
the field to carry out productive road maintenance operations.
Review of Manpower Requirements
5.        The training advisor will:
(a) determine the personnel requirements for the four-year
maintenance and rehabilitation program and prepare an
inventory of personnel requiring training and upgrading;
(b) determine the skills and knowledge required for maintenance
personnel at all levels; and
(c) assess the training needs of existing DGC personnel.



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
Definition of a Detailed Training Program
6.        Upon completion of the review under paragraph 5, the training
advisor will prepare a detailed training program to meet the personnel
needs and will, inter alia:
(a)  determine the number of personnel by category and level
to be trained during the four-year period, establishing
priority needs;
(b)  develop a phased training program for different categories
and levels of personnel, taking into consideration SEOPC
manpower requirements and budgetary constraints. The
program could be presented along the following lines:
(i) a two-year Priority Program, to start as soon as
resources become available under the Second Highway
Project; and
(ii) a Continuing Program, which would follow and consolidate
action taken during the Priority Program.
The phased program will be updated annually in consultation
with the Bank;
(c)  set up a mobile Training Production Unit (TPU) and a small
center at Sanchez for productive training of road foremen,
operators, drivers and mechanics for implementation of the
program;
(d)  determine the number and categories of Dominican instructors
required and set up programs for their training;
(e)  determine the training equipment and materials required,
including audio-visual aids;
(f)  prepare the annual budget of training activities; and
(g)  recommend any other action considered necessary for the
satisfactory implementation of training.
Implementation of the Training Program
7.        Following the Government's agreement on the training program, the
technical assistance experts will:
(a)  implement the training program; and
(b)  assist in selecting and training Dominican counterparts
and instructors to take over the training activities
within a reasonable time.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
Review of Existing Training Activities and Personnel Policies
8.        The Training Adviser, in collaboration with the chief
of the Training Section, the Director General of Highways and other senior
officials, will:
(a) review existing training procedures and, if necessary,
recommend appropriate changes, including a new training
policy (Annex 4, page 12); and
(b) assess the effectiveness of current policies regarding
recruitment, career development and remuneration and
recommend any organizational changes required to create
an environment in which training can be most effective.
IV. SCHEDULE FOR REPORTING
9.        SEOPC will be responsible for preparing the following reports in
Spanish within the time limits specified:
(a) an inception report within three months of the starting
date, detailing training needs and recommendations for
a four-year program to meet these needs, including measures
required to implement the program. The report will contain
a concise first chapter summarizing the contents;
(b) quarterly progress reports describing the work carried out
during the previous three months and the work progam for the
following three months; the progress report will identify
actual and anticipated difficulties and delays in implementing
the training program and will suggest remedies;
(c) a brief report on personnel policies and recommended improve-
ments;
(d) two months prior to the training advisor's completion of
service, a draft final report summarizing (i) work performed;
(ii) progress made; (iii) benefits from training program;
(iv) areas where progress has been unsatisfactory; and
(v) recommendations for further action;
(e) a final report within one month of receipt of comments on the
draft final report from the Government; and
(f) other reports as may be reasonably requested by the Government.
Two copies of all reports will be sent to the Bank as soon as issued for
information.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
V. GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
10.       The Government will:
(a) appoint a road engineer (or a road construction/maintenance
superintendent), a senior instructor for operators and a chief
mechanic as counterparts to the three technical assistance
experts to TPU; assignment of the experts will be contingent
upon the appointment of deputy instructors;
(b) appoint a mechanic superintendent to work with the technical
assistance experts responsible for training of mechanics
at Sanchez;
(c) appoint three road foremen, three chief mechanics, three
senior equipment operators/drivers to be trained initially
as assistant instructors (TPU and Sanchez);
(d) obtain the Bank's approval for the appointment of Dominican
instructors recruited from the private sector;
(e) obtain the Bank's approval for personnel selected for training
abroad (fellowships);
(f) make adequate arrangements for assigning suitable SEOPC personnel
to be trained as instructors;
(g) make adequate arrangements for releasing existing and future
staff, in a timely fashion, to undertake agreed training
courses; and
(h) allocate sufficient funds to finance local recurrent costs of
the training program.



- 84 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
Outline of Job Description for Training Advisor
1.   Title:                             Training Advisor
2.   Duration of Assignment:            12 months
3.   Duty Station:                      SEOPC Headquarters, Santo Domingo,
with frequent field trips to Sanchez
Center, TPU sites and other areas
as needed.
4.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to university level.
He should be a road maintenance specialist, preferably an
engineer, with five to seven years responsible experience in
managing training activities, particularly in establishing
programs and facilities. Moreover, he should be capable of:
(i) organizing a comprehensive policy of staff development
through practical and productive training; (ii) taking part
in active training by conducting seminars and discussions
on a specific road maintenance problem; and (iii) reviewing
and recommending improvements of existing personnel policies;
(b) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(c) fluency in Spanish.
5.   Responsibilities
The training advisor will be responsible for:
(a) establishing and coordinating training policies;
(b) identifying manpower training needs to carry out the
road maintenance and rehabilitation program;
(c) preparing the required training programs, taking into
consideration existing conditions in the Dominican Republic
and SEOPC's administrative structure;
(d) determining the resources required to conduct the training
program;
(e) developing methodology for personnel training and quality
control of training activities;
(f) approving training curricula and materials;



- 85 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7
(g) implementing the training program, bearing in mind the
necessary coordination of activities between the Training
Section and the Sanchez Center and TPU (field training),
ava'lability of personnel and other constraints;
(h) maintaining liaison with senior officers, district and
ayudantia engineers and consultants of SEOPC to obtain
their cooperation in all matters related to training and
staff development policies;
(i) carrying out workshops/seminars on maintenance management
and related topics for high level staff;
(j) designing an evaluation system within the training program
both to monitor the results of training while it is being
performed and, later, to evaluate the effectiveness of
completed programs;
(k) reviewing and making recommendations for the improvement of
existing personnel policies, in collaboration with the
Sub-Secretary of State for Administration; and
(1) taking necessary measures to ensure the satisfactory implemen-
tation of all seminars and programs required to meet SEOPC's
training needs, iacluding the upgrading of the Chief of the
Training Section to take over his responsibilities, and
supervising the training of Dominican instructors.
6.        In discharging his duties, the training advisor will report
directly to the Director General of Highways.



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8
Outline of Job Description for Chief of Training Production Unit
1.   Title:                             Chief of Training Production Unit
2.   Duration of assignment:            12 months
3.    Duty Station:                     TPU on road maintenance sites in the
Dominican Republic
4.   Qualifications and Experience
(a)  A good general and technical education up to university level or
equivalent - Road Engineer or Senior Road Construction/Maintenance
Superintendent;
(b)  effective previous training and subsequent extensive field experience
in road construction and maintenance;
(c)  experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
training in road construction and maintenance at supervisory level;
(d)  capacity to plan, organize and control work activities, and
maintain a team spirit;
(e)  working experience in Latin American countries; and
(f)  fluency in Spanish.
5.   Responsibilities
The Chief of TPU will be responsible for:
(a)  planning, organizing and implementing practical productive
training of DGC personnel assigned to TPU, as well as
rehabilitation/maintenance works to be carried out while
training takes place; during the last quarter of his
service, he will have only an advisory role while a Dominican
staff will manage the TPU;
(b)  providing on-the-job training to road foremen, overseers,
equipment operators, drivers and certain levels of mechanics,
and ensuring that they also receive some instructions in
theory;
(c)  supervising the activities of the chief equipment operator
and chief mechanic assigned to the unit;
(d)  ensuring an adequate supply system to enable TPU to be
properly stocked with materials, lubricants, etc.;



-87 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9
(e) ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and other
resources allocated to TPU; and
(f) training a Dominican counterpart, and supervising the training
of counterparts to chief operator and chief mechanic as well
as other Dominican instructors assigned to the unit.
6.        In discharging his duties, the Chief of TPU will report to the Chief
of the Training Section through the Training Advisor.



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10
Outline of Job Description for Senior Instructor (Mechanics)
1.   Title:                             Senior Instructor (Mechanics)
2.   Duration of Assignment:            12 months
3.   Duty Station:                      Sanchez Center or other suitable
location
4.   Qualifications and Experience
(a)  A good general and technical education up to technician level or
equivalent--Mechanical Superintendent or Senior Workshop Foreman;
(b)  Sound practical training and subsequent extensive practical
experience in the maintenance and repair of heavy road
construction/maintenance equipment, dump trucks and other
road vehicles; institutional training experience would be
an advantage;
(c)  Experience in developing and implementing on-the-job
productive programs in maintenance and repair of road
equipment;
(d)  Capacity to plan, organize and control activities of others,
while maintaining a team spirit;
(e)  Working experience in Latin American countries; and
(f)  Fluency in Spanish.
5.   Responsibilities
(a)  Planning, organizing and implementing basic and upgrading
training of DGC mechanics assigned to Sanchez (or other
suitable location) as well as rehabilitation of road equipment;
(b)  Developing, in collaboration with the Training Advisor and
the chief of the Training Section, basic training materials
to be used for those trainees who have not benefited from
prior training;
(c)  Ensuring an adequate and timely supply of spare parts to
carry out productive training, i.e., repairing existing
broken-down equipment;
(d)  Ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and
materials and other resources allocated to the Center;
(e)  Training a Dominican counterpart and other instructors assigned
to the C--nter.
6.        In discharging his duties, the Senior Instructor (Mechanics) will
report to the Chief of the Training Section through the Training Advisor.



- 89 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11
Outline of Job Description for Senior Instructor (Equipment Operators)
1.   Title:                             Senior Instructor (Equipment Operators)
2.   Duration of Assignment:            24 months
3.   Duty Station:                      TPU on road sites in the Dominican
Republic
4.   Qualifications and Experience
(a)  A good general and technical education up to technician level or
equivalent--Senior Equipment Operator;
(b)  Sound prior training, with seven to ten years responsible
experience in heavy and light construction and maintenance
equipment, particularly in preventive maintenance; should
have experience as operator of most important road equipment;
(c)  Experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
training of equipment operators and drivers;
(d)  working experience in Latin American countries; and
(e)  Fluency in Spanish.
5.   Responsibilities
(a)  Organizing and implementing on-the-job productive training of DGC
equipment operators and drivers periodically assigned to TPU,
as well as rehabilitation/maintenance works while training takes
place;
(b)  Developing, in collaboration with the training adviser and the
chief of TPU, basic training materials to be used for those
trainees with limited early training;
(c)  Ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and materials
allocated for training; and
(d)  Training a Dominican counterpart and other instructors assigned
to him.
6.        In discharging his duties, the Senior Instructor, Equipment Operators,
will report directly to the Chief of TPU.
September 1979



- 90 -
ANNEX 4
Page 12
Draft Policy Statement On Training
1.        The economic and social growth of the Dominican Republic requires
the development and maintenance of an efficient transportation system. The
Government foresees an investment of Pesos -- million for the period
1980-1984, and such a large investment must be backed up by the training and
upgrading of staff necessary to develop, administer, and maintain the present
and future road network.
2.        The Secretary intends to strengthen its training structure and,
with the assistance of existing national training facilities, plans to meet
the training needs of the SEOPC personnel responsible for road maintenance
as quickly as possible.
3.        The Secretary will enter into a contract with consultants
experienced in this field of work and will require them to define the manpower
training needs, develop a comprehensive training plan, including the strengthen-
ing of the existing Training Section, the establishment of a training center for
mechanics in Sanchez, and recommendations to improve personnel policies. In
addition, they will be required to assist in developing the necessary courses
and to implement agreed training programs.
4.        Training activities will involve low and middle-level supervisors,
as well as high-level management staff.
5.        This Secretary will ensure, starting in 1980, that financial and
physical resources will be made available to carry out these activities. In
addition, to ensure the efficient implementation of the training effort, all
senior staff and.engineers of districts and ayudantias connected with road
maintenance activities will be required to collaborate closely with the
Training Section, by making available adquate numbers of personnel to be
trained as instructors, and by releasing existing and future staff, in a
timely fashion, to undertake agreed training courses.



- 91 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Personnel Training Program
Capital and Technical Assistance Expenditures
(US$)
Local     Foreign      Total
(a)   Improvement of Training Facilities
Buildings in Sanchez                     60,000      30,000      90,000
Workshop equipment and tools                -        70,000       70,000
Special training equipment aids            -         11,000       11,000
Subtotal               60,000    111,000      171,000
(b)   Technical Assistance and Personnel
Consultants (1980-1982)                  110,000    222,000      332,000
SEOPC fellowships                          -         50,000      50,000
Per diem for the SEOPC personnel 1/    500,000         -        500,000
Subtotal              610,000    272,000      882,000
(c)   Support of Tasks to be Accomplished by Trainees
Training Production Unit (road maintenance of up to 100 km/year)
Initial equipment allocation               -        492,000     492,000
Vehicles                                    -        55,000      55,000
Subtotal                 -       547,000      547,000
(d)   Training of Mechanics in Sanchez (50 units overhauled)
Spare parts                              100,000    500,000     600,000
Total                 770,000  1,430,000   2,200,000
1/    Shown also in Annex 4, Table 2 as recurrent operating expense; it is
included here because of its financing under the project.
Source:   SEOPC
July 1979



- 92 -                               ANNEX 4
Table 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Personnel Training Program
Recurrent Operating Expenditures
(RD$)
Every Year    Total Program
(1981-1984)    (four years)
(a) Operation of Training Facilities
Training office at headquarters                      55,000         220,000
Sanchez center for mechanics 1/                      17,000          68,000
Subtotal                           72,000         288,000
(b) Per diem for SEOPC's Personnel 2/
1. Assistant instructors (9) RD$14/day -
220 days                                         28,000         112,000
2. Trainees
- Road foremen, operators and drivers
(180) RD$6/day - 70 days                        76,000         304,000
- Mechanics (38) RD$6/day - 70 days               16,000          64,000
- Accountants (12) RD$10/day - 40 days             5,000          20,000
Subtotal                          125,000         500,000
(c) Operation of Training Production Unit.!/
Operation of equipment                               44,000         176,000
Materials (asphalt, cement, etc.)                    50,000         200,000
Subtotal                           94,000         376,000
Total                             291,000       1,164,000
1/ Overhauling 50 units of equipment
2/ Shown also in Annex 4, Table 1 as technical assistance expenditure
to be financed under the project.
3/ Maintaining about 100 km of roads per year.
Source:. SEOPC
July 1979



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Four-Year (1981-1984) Training Program
Technical Assistance to,the Training Program
1980                     1981             /        1982                      1983            T           1984
__ J/F/FA/M/J/J/A/SMO/N/D/J/F/M/A/M/J/J/A/S/O/N/ /J/F/M/A/M/J/J/A/S/O/N/D J/F/M A/M/J/J/A/S/O/N/t                     A J//S O/N/I
Training Advisor (Exp.)
Road Engineer  (Exp.)                                              I
(Chief of TPU)
Road Engineer.   (Dom.)                                                                                 3 r  p  xaac XCXXXa sxxx   x       xxx1  zXX
(Deputy Chief TPU)
Senior Instructor (Dom.)                       __X                                                        XX_ Xa c  Xx,ac   M XaCxX XXXXX3r YYY 3  bcxx,ac
(Operators and Drivers)
Senior Instructor (Exp.)
(Mechanics)                                                                                                                              .
Deputy Senior      (Dom.)                        _      _cxxx cxxXa xDocXX UXOXcxx2 xxcx                                                        x
Instructor (Mechanics)
Assistant          (SEOPC)                            CKXXDC xXXXDC  XXXXi xxxx,               KXJ                  I X tXaOx   iKX,X Xx  cxD   Da xx    D   x
Instructor:
3 Road Foremen::
3 Equipment Operators &
Drivers
3 Mechanical Personnel                                                                                                -
Consultants:                                         SEOPC: xxaxxcxxx
Expatriates - 36 man-months                          9 Instructors  432 man-months
Dominicans  - 72  "                                           Total  540  "      "
Sub-Total   108  "    "
Source: SEOPC and Mission                                                                                                                                         l
July 1979



- 94 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance for the
Pilot Rural Road Program
Objectives
1.        The purpose of the technical assistance is to provide consultant
services over a period of two years to guide and assist DGCV in developing
an optimum approach for labor-based construction of vital roads:
The principal objectives are:
(a) To assess the technical, economic and financial feasibility
of labor-based methods by building and maintaining a number
of rural roads in different parts of the country, and in
different terrain and soil conditions.  The process of
actual construction and maintenance will also clarify issues
related to labor supply, to payment methods, and to the
precise costs involved in doing this type of work in the
Dominican Republic.
(b) To undertake the different activities related to the "institution-
building" necessary for the efficient application of labor-based
methods. The planning, administrative and financial procedures
appropriate for the efficient utilization of unskilled labor in
construction are fundamentally different from those which are
appropriate for equipment-based operations. Of particular signif-
icance are issues related to staff training, to labor recruitment,
to the development of domestic manufacture of good quality hand
tools, to the design of measures for the upgrading of the health
and nutrition status of the unskilled workers, and to the
assistance for small local contractors to carry out labor-based
construction.
(c) On the basis of the preceding, to prepare a nationwide program for
the improvement of rural infrastructure facilities by means of
an extensive use of unskilled labor. The expanded nationwide
program should be ready for implementation upon the conclusion of
the demonstration phase.
The Demonstration Project envisaged for implementation should have
the following features:



- 95 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
(i) Parent Organization
General Directorate of Rural Roads, SEOPC.
(ii) Duration
27 months
(iii) Components
(a) Construction, reconstruction and improvement of rural roads.
(b)  Institution-building and support activities
- development of planning and administrative procedures
- staff training
- design and implementation of measures to upgrade the
health and nutritional status of the unskilled workers
- design and implementation of measures for the domestic
manufacture of hand tools and light equipment.
(iv)  Outputs at the End of the Demonstration Phase
(a)  200 km of road built and the newly built sections handed
over to the maintenance unit of DGCV.
(b)  Detailed cost comparisons between labor-based and equipment-
based construction.
(c)  About 400,000 man-days of employment generated for unskilled
laborers.
(d)  Development of planning and administrative procedures for
labor-based operations suitable for application at a
constantly expanding rate.
(e)  Design of suitable health and nutrition measures for the
laborers working on the program.
(f)  Creation of local capacity for the manufacture of good
quality tools.
(g)  Availability of adequate numbers of field supervisory
staff to undertake an expanding program of labor-based
construction.
(h)  Guidelines for the application of labor-based methods on
other rural infrastructure work.



- 96 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Project Execution
2.        The General Directorate of Rural Roads had identified 22 roads
with a total length of 200 km to be constructed or reconstructed during
the Demonstration Phase of two years. For the first stage, eight roads
with a total of 69.5 km were selected for a socio-economic evaluation.
(i) The Directorate organized field interviews to get the basic
socio-economic data of the influenced area of the first eight
roads. These interviews should be continued for the
remaining 14 roads.
(ii) The Labor-Based Construction Unit, to be established under the
project, will carry out the execution of this component and have
the following tasks during the Demonstration Phase:
(a) Establishment of basic design standards for road works
and structures:
- Appropriate geometrics (including cross-section and
vertical/horizontal alignments) for low-class, low-
traffic rural roads.
- Appropriate designs for structures (culverts, bridges,
etc.)
- Guidelines for deciding whether or not surfacing of
the road is required and for selecting surfacing
materials.
(b) Staff training:
- Definition of skill requirements
- Development of training sessions either through formal
courses, on-the-job instruction, or a combination of
the two
(c) Establishment of procedures for labor recruitment and
payment:
- Evaluation of the current administrative procedures
related to labor-based construction
- Formulation of improvement with particular attention
on incentives for prompt and efficient execution of
works and payment methods



- 97 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
(d) Development of construction procedures:
- Development of the most appropriate work methods
and forms of site organization suitable for the
different construction activities
- Assessment of the influence of alternative incentive
systems on labor and management productivity
- Investigation of the prospects for an eventual shift
away from force account operations and toward a greater
reliance on contracts and/or community work;
(e) Preparation of the first phase of a nationwide program
of labor-based rural road construction and maintenance
that could be implemented after completion of the
demonstration phase;
- Development of standardized techniques for the
identification and evaluation of "candidate"
roads proposed for improvement either by communities
or by agencies of the Government
- Priority ranking of the selected roads and work
scheduling systems for the chosen works
- Preparation of economic and social justification
in support of the Government's efforts to secure
outside financing for an expanded labor-based
construction program
(f) Assistance for the improvement of a local capability for
the manufacture of good quality hand tools:
- Design, manufacture and testing of prototypes
- Formulation of maintenance and repair routines for
tools and light equipment
(g) Interventions to upgrade the health and nutritional
status of the unskilled laborers:
- A survey to determine major nutritional and health
deficiencies prevalent among the labor force
- Design and implementation of appropriate inter-
vention measures which will contribute to higher
labor productivity
(h) Assistance for the development of domestic contractors
who, over time, can be entrusted with execution of the
physical works.



- 98 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
Staffing
Man-months
3.   (i)              1           Civil Engineer                  24
1          Work Study Engineer              18
4          Experts on tools and
hardware, health,
nutrition and road
selection                       10
Total               52
(ii) The professional staff of the Labor-Based Construction Unit is
envisaged to consist of two full-time expatriates (plus four short-
term experts in different disciplines who will have to visit the
country at different intervals), working along with two Dominican
engineers, one economist, and two technicians/junior engineers (Table
1 of this Annex).
(iii) The expatriate staff (both full-time and short-term), ought to
have experience in labor-based construction and maintenance opera-
tions and, more specifically, in (1) civil construction, planning
and management; (2) work study, including project scheduling and
sequencing; and (3) organization and cost control. Short-term
visits to the Dominican Republic will be required by expatriate
experts on tool and hardware development, on health/nutrition issues
and on road selection. The fundamental task of the expatriate staff
is training. This would be carried out on two fronts: first, within
the Labor-Based Construction Unit, where the expatriates will be
expected to familiarize their Dominican colleagues with labor-based
planning, management, supervision and monitoring; and second, in the
field, where the expatriates will be expected to train local staff at
the foreman and overseer level. The emphasis on training during the
demonstration phase is fundamental.
4.   (i)  The work to be carried out by the Labor-Based Construction Unit can
be subdivided into the following overlapping stages:
Stage I ("Mobilization") will require about two months and will
be devoted largely to the recruitment of expatriate and local
staff and to the establishment of the financial, administrative
and procurement procedures that will govern the operations of the
Labor-Based Construction Unit.



- 99 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6
Stage II ("Support Activities") will begin upon the completion
of the mobilization stage and continue throughout the program.
Staff training will be one of the Stage II activities, and
it is envisaged to be an ongoing operation, both in the field
and at the Department's Headquarters. Tool development will
consist of: a survey to review the available artisan and
manufacturing facilities in the country; testing of prototype
equipment to ensure that the proposed prototypes are not only
suitable for Dominican conditions, but, also, are within the
capacity of the local artisans and manufacturers to produce;
assurance to artisans and manufacturers to enable them, by means of
technical advice and financial help, to produce a specified tool at
an agreed price; and the actuaf manufacturing of tools and light
equipment needed for the project. Health and nutrition measures
will comprise a survey to identify the most common health and
nutritional shortcomings; the design of appropriate interventions;
and the routine provision of medicines and/or nutritional supplements
to the workers.
Stage III ("Construction") will begin with a review of the labor
market in the areas where rural road improvements are planned so
that appropriate measures for work organization, gang balancing,
etc. can be adequately provided for. Construction will be an
ongoing activity over 25 months.
Stage IV ("Planning the Expanded Program") will take place during the
second year. Based on data collected during the execution of the
demonstration phase, an evaluation study will be made of the differ-
ent labor-based construction methods used in the program. Data used
fer evaluation will include productivity for different methods of
construction and corresponding construction unit costs. Project
designs which are best adapted to labor-based methods will be used,
and an optimum organization for individual construction units will be
determined. A detailed study will be made of the labor supply in the
rural areas where labor-based construction work is scheduled to take
place in order to ensure that construction activities will not divert
needed workers away from agriculture. Meanwhile, should the Labor-Based
Construction Unit receive requests for road improvements from
different communities and municipalities in the Dominican Republic,
these requests would be evaluated and a tentative work program would
be developed. Depending on the financial and other resources available,
the Unit would be in a position to implement a larger volume of work.
The items in the tentative work program would be ranked in terms of
priority.



- 100 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7
(ii)  The work program of the demonstration phase illustrates the sequencing
of activities summarized above (Chart 1 of this annex). Monitor-
ing is a most important task of the Headquarter's staff of the Unit.
Unforeseeable difficulties and problems are bound to arise wherever
the systematic use of unskilled labor in construction is attempted
for the first time. A monitoring system which primarily compares
estimated versus actual costs and estimated versus actual times for
work completion is most useful when the volume of work is relatively
small, as in a demonstration project.
(iii)  Every six months, and on completion of road construction, reports
should be prepared concerning the impact of the improved access
roads upon local agriculture. Benefits should be assessed to serve
as input data for evaluation of subsequent programs.
November 1979



- 101 -                              ANNEX 5
Table 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Pilot
Rural Roads Program
Preliminary List of Staff Required
for the Labor-Based Construction Unit
A. Local Staff                             Year 1        Year 2
Engineers                                 2              4
Economist                                 1              1
Surveyor Team                             1              1.5
Administration Officer                    1              1
Clerk Adm.                                2              3
Secretary/Typist                          2              3
Storekeeper                               1              2
Drivers                                   4              4
Nutritionist                              1              1
B. Technical Assistance Staff
Civil Engineer                                         24 MM
Work-Study (Civil) Engineer                            18 MM
Tool Specialist                                 )
Health/Nutrition Specialist                     )      10 MM
Other Unallocated Experts                       )



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Pilot Rural Road Program
Summary of Activities
/         1980           /          1981                      1982
/J/ /M/A/M/J/J/A/S/O/N/D/J/F/M/A/M/J/J/A/S/O/N/D/J/F/M/A/M/J/J/A/S/O/N/I
PREPARATION
Consultants Selection
Contract Award                                        _
Mobilization of Resources
CONSTRUCTION                                                     - _                          .               .              o
INSTITUTION BUILDING
Staff Training                                                -
Organizational Aspects
Planning Aspects                                                _
Financing Aspects                                               _
SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
Tool. Development                                               _
Development of Contractors
PLANNING OF EXPANDED PROGRAM                                                                        l
Quarterly Reports                                                 x      x     x      x            x     x      x
Final Report                                                                                                                   z
Source: SEOPC and Mission
July 1979



- 103 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Model
1.        This annex contains a brief description of the characteristics
of the analytical model discussed in paragraph 5.03. The model functions
in two distinct phases, a "link" phase and a "program" phase.
Link Phase
2.        In the "link" phase of the analysis, two alternative are tested
for each link in the national network. In the first alternative, the "do
nothing" alternative, highways currently in "bad" condition receive a minimum
amount of maintenance work (temporary maintenance) to keep them open, but
they remain in "bad" condition throughout the selected analysis period.
Highways, in "good" or "regular" condition are allowed to deteriorate to
"bad" condition, at which time they begin to receive temporary maintenance
only to keep them open.
3.        The second alternative includes taking actions.  Highways in
"bad" condition are improved through rehabilitation in the first year of
the analysis; in the second year and thereafter, they receive preventive
maintenance. Highways in "good" or "regular" condition receive preventive
maintenance throughout the entire analysis period.
4.        For each alternative, the economic costs of rehabilitation,
maintenance and highway use are calculated in each year of the analysis
period. In a manner similar to project feasibility studies, a rate of
return is computed for the "action" alternative with respect to the
"do.nothing" alternative. Before entering the "program" phase, all
links are ranked in descending order by their rate of return.
Program Phase
5.        The "program" phase tests alternative investment schemes which
constrain the annual rate at which rehabilitation improvements are under-
taken (year of improvement becomes a variable). The logic is similar to
that of the "link" phase except that the absence of available funds in
any one year will delay rehabilitation to the next year. In other words,
rehabilitation is performed first on links with the highest rates of return,
as funds become available. Maintenance costs are coordinated automatically
with rehabilitation actions. This coordination establishes in any year
whether or not a link is receiving preventive or temporary maintenance.



- 104 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
All costs are accumulated for the entire network for each year in the
analysis period. Subsequently, the rate of return provided by the invest-
ment program under study is calculated on the increment of incurred investment
over the previous program. 1/
6.        The foregoing provides a general picture of how the analysis
works. The following list provides data describing the analysis.
(1)   5,000 km of highways, the entire national highway network;
(2)   Road surface types:  gravel, asphalt and concrete;
(3)   388 highway links;
(4)   Analysis period = 10 years;
(5)   Present worth of economic costs used to calculate
benefit/cost ratios based on 10 years and 12%
opportunity cost of capital;
(6)   Priorities based on rate of return for 10 years;
(7)   Foreign exchange costs adjusted upward by 25% to
convert all costs to RD$;
(8)   38 investment programs tested; and
(9)   All costs in 1979 prices.
July 1979
1/   In the "program" phase, investment programs are tested beginning
with the lowest investment first, followed by successively increasing
investments.



- 105 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Economic Benefits of Pilot Rural Roads Program
1.        The benefit categories consist of:  (a) benefits accruing to local
farmers (increased net value of production resulting from induced change in
cropping patterns and improvement of production techniques); (b) benefits
accruing to intermediaries or consumers (reduction of produce-spoilage
("transport losses") due to improved transport conditions and transport cost
savings to agricultural goods traffic, and (c) benefits accruing to the local
population in general and to vehicle owners (cost savings of passenger traffic).
2.        Estimates regarding the future "with" and "without" situation are
largely based on the same basic data, relationships and trends. Individual adjust-
ments are made whenever considered to influence the result significantly.
3.        The "without" project situation has been determined for the years
1979 and 1990. Data on the present situation in each project area have been
obtained through field surveys from the local (zonal and sub-zonal) offices of
the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGR) and local Government authorities and -
with respect to more general data - from central Government authorities. The
same sources provided useful information regarding further development in case
improved access is not provided for the areas considered.
4.        The determination of the 1990 situation "with" project is based on:
(a) changes observed in similar areas in the region; (b) interviews of local
farmers and village authorities; (c) programs and plans of MINAGR's extension
service; and (d) Government-planned actions for giving support for selected
crops of national priority. Project-induced changes are assumed to materialize
gradually in the first year following completion of construction. Values for
relevant parameters between 1981 and 1990 have been extrapolated using compound
rates of growth.
(a) Determination of present situation
5.        Area of influence has been determined on maps (scale 1:50,000) taking
into account topographic conditions (rivers, mountains, valleys, etc.), exist-
ing or planned transport links close to the proposed project roads, time
periods and costs of present transport flows.
6.        Cultivated area and cropping patterns were determined in cooperation
with the agricultural extension workers responsible for the respective areas
(who have monthly records for each crop) and checked by an analysis of the



- 106 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
results of the 1971 National Agricultural Census as well as by interviews
with the local people. Pastures were considered only when livestock and/or
milk production were important. Estimates on cultivated area per crop were
given for the most important crops in each project area.
7.        Yields are about the same in all the areas considered.  Annual
variations were found to be much more significant than regional differences.
Information on average yields was obtained from the local people and confirmed
(or adjusted) by the local extension agents. Adjustments were made only in
case there was clear evidence that average yields of selected crops did vary
considerably from one area to the other.
8.        Average farmgate prices were used in estimating production values.
These are often considerably below wholesale prices because of the strong in-
fluence of intermediaries. Data on average farmgate prices were obtained
during the field survey and checked (sometimes adjusted) with price statistics
of MINAGR. It was found that local differences of farmgate prices are negli-
gible. No difference was made between prices for locally consumed crops and
marketed crops. An average price is estimated for less important crops in
each area which were not explicitly specified.
9.        Production costs have been calculated on the basis of recent cost
estimates of MINAGR for different regions of the country. Adjustments were
necessary since these estimates do not adequately reflect the traditional
production techniques presently applied in the project areas. The adjustments
were undertaken by using MINAGR estimates on labor requirements for a variety
of traditional agricultural crops. The labor element of production costs was
shadow-priced at RD$ 2.0 per man-day. Agricultural tools were estimated to
represent 10% of financial cost of labor. An average production cost was
estimated for crops not explicitly specified.
10.       Population in the influence area of the road projects is estimated
on the basis of the 1970 census results and adjusted to 1979 with a factor of
1.11 for the areas located in Santiago Rodriguez Province and a factor of 1.16
for the areas located in Dajabon and La Vega Provinces. These factors were
based on rural population growth rates in these provinces of 1.2% and 1.7%
respectively (1977 estimates).
11.       Local consumption of crops grown in the areas is assumed to be, on
average, 0.5 tons per capita and year. Based on this, approximate consump-
tion patterns were estimated for each area, taking into account consumption
habits of rural population in the region and the availability of locally
produced crops. It was assumed for each area that crops not specified are
fully consumed by the local people since the majority of these are transport-
intensive crops and mainly cultivated for subsistence purposes.
12.       The exportable surplus is the difference between production and
local consumption of crops. It was assumed that all of the exportable surplus
is marketed and, thus, needs transport over the existing roads or tracks.



- 107 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
13.       Transport losses.  The non-availability of adequate transport causes
spoilage of produce. The percentage figures applied for each crop are based
on recent estimates of SEOPC personnel and adjusted according to the present
condition of transport in each area. The quantities are valued at farmgate
prices.
14.       Cost of goods transport on existing roads.  Present transport prices
for goods transport have been obtained during the field survey. These do not,
however, adequately reflect transport costs because of the monopolization
of the transport system by intermediaries who also dominate most of the animal
transport. Therefore, typical prices charged per ton-km of animal transport
were determined for transport in flat, rolling and mountainous terrain and
then reduced by some 33% (present transport charges exceed transport costs by
some 50% on average). For road sections passable for motorized traffic,
transport cost estimates were obtained from the advisory team to SEOPC's
maintenance department. It was assumed that, on average, 30% of all goods
transport on these road sections was by light vehicles (pick-ups). Pick-ups
are virtually the only motorized vehicles using rural roads in the region.
These vehicles are normally overloaded and carry an average of 1.8 tons
per trip (out of the area). On the basis of this information, a weighted
average of transport cost was calculated for each road or track. Total
costs of transport per ton were then derived by adjusting the cost figures,
previously calculated, with the average trip length on the existing road
or track.
15.       Cost of passenger transport on existing roads.  The cost of
passenger transport per km was estimated on the basis of the average walking
time required on earth roads and/or tracks in different types of terrain.
This time was valued at the shadow wage rate of RD$ 2.0 per day for rural
unskilled labor (based on an average working day of eight hours). On that
basis, the time cost of 2.5 pass-km was approximately equal to the cost of
goods transport per 0.1 per km by mule (one load) and was used in determining
the cost of pedestrian transport. A pick-up in the area carries an average
of 15 persons (often up to 20). It is assumed that 30% of all passenger
transport on motorable sections of the existing roads is done by pick-ups.
16.       Total passenger and goods transport.  Total goods transport is
assumed to equal the exportable surplus. Transport of inputs and consumer
goods into the areas is found to be fairly small and has therefore not been
considered. Passenger traffic was found to average ten non-agriculture
related trips per inhabitant and year on the existing roads or tracks.
This average figure, combined with the number of people living in the
influence area of each road, indicates the approximate number of
relevant trips on the existing roads or tracks.
(b) Determination of future situation
17.       Assumptions about future development are summarized below for the
"without" - and "with" - project situations. They are based on the same



- 108 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
sources of information as mentioned earlier (para 5.15). Estimates on
present and future agricultural practices and yields have been reviewed
and found reasonable by Bank agriculture staff.
18.       Situation "without" project.  With some exceptions, project areas
are likely to follow a fairly consistent development pattern in the future
without the project investment: the past development has been almost
static with a slight deterioration trend which is believed to continue
in the future. The "without"-project situation has been based on the
following assumptions:
-    Existing roads will be maintained in their present condition.
-    Yields remain unchanged (a tendency toward declining due to
salinity, soil erosion, etc.) will be compensated for by slightly
more efficient farm practices.
-    The average rate of increase of rural population in the areas
will be the same as in the past.
-    Additional land is cultivated only to the extent that
consumption needs of the population increase can be
satisfied.
-    Production patterns on old cultivated lands remain
unchanged.
-    Production costs on old cultivated lands suffer no alterations
while, on new cultivated lands, they increase by some 20%,
which reflects their generally larger distance from the existing
roads and the poorer quality of soils.
-    Per capita consumption of locally produced crops remains
unchanged.
-    There will be no change in the relation of farmgate prices
of different crops (although this sounds somewhat unrealistic
in view of the considerable variation of farmgate prices,
there is no way, even approximately, to predict future
price trends).
-    Exportable surplus and transport losses remain the same over
the years.
-    Transport costs per ton and per passenger remain the same,
just as the average trip length.
-    Passenger transport increases with the same rate as population
in the area.



- 109 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 5
19.       Situation "with" project.  The assumptions reflect what may be
reasonably expected to happen in the project areas if improved access is
provided. It has been agreed with MINAGR that the project areas will
receive priority by its zonal extension service. Other services will
become increasingly available because they will be more easily accessible
for local people following completion of road construction. Local farmers
may learn to handle their tools more appropriately after having been
employed in the construction works. Even the formation of agricultural
associations (asociaciones de agricultores), in addition to those already
existing, may be encouraged once people have learned to work together in
organized groups during road construction. These associations, in turn,
would have easier access to agricultural credit, which is badly needed for
improving production techniques. The almost complete absence of the use
of fertilizers, insecticides, etc. is, to a considerable part, caused by
the lack of funds of farmers at a time when these products are most
needed. Increased communication as a result of improved access will
give the farmers some incentives to improve their own agriculture. Although
farmgate prices are not expected to increase as a result of road improvement,
transport services are expected to lead to a more efficient movement of
produce and possible access to markets, constituting a significant incentive
for local farmers to expand their production. All this still leaves aside
the possibility of additional Government actions which are not foreseen at
present but which could further enhance the economic viability of the proposed
investment, e.g., increased support to marketing (including storage facilities),
credit, and transport of agricultural produce. Detailed assumptions for the
"with"-project situation are outlined below:
-    All project roads will be rehabilitated or constructed to
all-weather standard and maintained at this level during
their time of useful life.
-    The induced increase of cultivated areas depends on a variety
of factors such as the availability of additional cultivable
land, the quality of such land, accessibility, and the develop-
ment of farmgate prices. Since the availability of additional
cultivable land is not a limiting factor in the areas analyzed,
it has been assumed that the rate of growth of local population
determines the amount of additional land that will be put
under cultivation. Only part of this increase can be attributed
to the improved roads because there will also be an increase of
cultivated land in the "without"-project case.
-    Some changes of cropping patterns are expected to result from
the project. For instance, cultivation of peanuts does not give
a sufficient financial return at present farmgate prices and is
therefore expected to decline by about 30% from its present
level. The reduction will be compensated for by increased
production of other crops such as coffee, red beans, pigeon
peas and rice. This assumption is based on the fact that the
cultivation of these crops is given national priority by the
Government, which has for this purpose established special
promotion programs. The National Agricultural Extension
Service has also been instructed.



- 110 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 6
The relation of farmgate prices of different crops is assumed
to remain unchanged. Savings of transport costs are not expected
to be passed on to farmers, but have been assumed to be absorbed
by intermediaries, who dominate the transport and trade in the
area.
Production costs on the new land put under cultivation will be
20% above present production costs. In addition, there will be
"improved" land where fertilizer and/or insecticides/pesticides
are used. Their cost is included in the production cost of
"improved" land. Improved land refers to part of the land
cultivated with crops, the promotion of which is considered
to be of national priority. It is expected that 20% of the
land cropped with coffee, red beans, pigeon peas and rice
will be improved land by the year 1990.
By 1990, yields will, on average, be increased by 20%.  Yields
of peanuts are not expected to increase because practically
all the land presently cultivated with peanuts is improved
land, which is correspondingly considered in the production
costs. No increase of yields is expected for the less important
crops in each area ("others"). Yields on improved land will
average 50% above present yields, but with some variations
according to type of crop.
Per capita consumption of locally produced crops remains
unchanged.
Population increase will be 20% above the rate otherwise
expected, i.e., "without"-project implementation.
Transport losses will be fully avoided with the availability
of adequate transport.
It is expected that 70% of all goods transport on the
improved roads will be done by vehicles (pick-ups which
carry an average of 1.8 tons). Transport cost figures
are available from the advisory team or SEOPC's maintenance
department. With these figures, average costs per ton
have been calculated. Transport cost savings are calculated
only for normal agricultural goods transport.
It is expected that all passenger transport with destinations
outside the immediate surroundings will be done by vehicles
(pick-up's which carry an average of 15 passengers). Transport
cost savings are calculated for normal and generated passenger
transport, the latter being considered with only half its
value. It is expected that the average number of trips per
caDita and year will be increased by one every two years.
Septermber 1979



- 111 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
1.     Plan Trienal de Inversiones Publicas, Version Preliminar, Oficina
Nacional de Planificacion, April 1979.
2.     Estudio Tecnico-Economico del Sector Transporte, DELCANDA Int.,
July 1978.
3.     Economic Confirmation Study of Preselected Roads, DELCANDA Int.,
April 1979.
4.     Planning for Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation, Final Report,
Roy Jorgensen Assoc., Inc., March 1979.
5.     Informe Estudio de Factibilidad Via Terrestre Santo Domingo-Santiago,
F. Harris, Inc., October 1976.
6.     Highway Rehabilitation and Administrative Study, Lamarre Valois Ltd.
April 1974.
November 1979






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Secretariat of State for Public
Wours and Communiations
5ECRTAnV F STATC FRO
IC OSKS& COMMAS CATIONS
FOR CNANrING AND PROGRAMMING
PROGRAMMING
AS=ISTANT IECTOD   ASSISTANT A, I    PNNIA  CONSTUCTION SSTA   ASISTANTDIRECTO  SSISANT  RCTOR  ETTOESIGNS
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... SUS SECRTAR 
OF CONSTACAT ON_OF MAINTCNANCE  TIFAFFIC  TRANSEORTAtON    'OR CONSTFACTION        EAR MAINTTNANCE
S - E                                                                      OF TAEETT                                                 TES                                    BS C ET R
IAREER ECI,EREO PI STST                                                                                                                                                                                        TEES8T0TIAR DSTAT
AND CMNOUNICATIONS
e TORAT   ENERA DFECTORAE               GENERL DIRECRA  AT                        GEEAL DIRETRT
OENEF A  S Dl      e             FER RnO                        FTAS-E-TATlO-                                 UILDIG
ADMINISTRATION         FTOIADINITRAINII  DIIATITINIIIGNRLIQNTR         ER         COAEIIDEEA  IETRT                                                                                   CDNTRDL AN AUDCITING
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                            C          CUT N G _  N     NE .                                            TICMPUTERPOESIN
AC          R||SU  E ||DSRCIN|| SIT   FI                           A  GTTC                                    AN                                                                                   ACRSOU DNTIN
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO PRINTING
| FRIVATE  I I  ST;TE  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S LE
SrCX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIT. SFFICnat                                                                                                                                         MA ES-IDENCE CFnU5IOF
Jue1979                                                                                                      DEsIGNnPN9






IBRD 14492R
NOVEMBER W79
Oa,/I of M,c,o 1boo
'PLATA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sod
ERT  -,                                             .DOMINICAN
~~REPUBIC
Exic G         "EL   J4MA.CA HAIT    P,-0T.-
RI ST                                                                               17                                            RAGVA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JTSACo,,kheoa  Sao
ii E 3,,o-  f ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ce,                                                               TENEfI
MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
Xd  = 9 X ', r R NS ' .' 0 0 ; 0 | | * M~~' -t.   dam  I                        T  IN I
Alf. de    o,t        ATAO                  Wr                       x5                    c           iscc$               ^ tt;= 2       00lw
pul-  ANTI Go                                                                         ANCHEZ~~~~~~SIcRsoRLSATOA    S* )                                                     o Plolde ~,,
T,     w          \S RODRIGUEZ                                                                                                           M                       / R        N       UT                 ,
m m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  EMRGNC ROA  REOSRUTO  PROJECTSgGA9e  E  >                                                   j,  _                  4            -
Lin.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dRws~uEgnen
T  8   _;SANJUAN   |/  <y  \  P  d  Bl / 4 v 5 [ ANolo y z \ ElCercodo\ 3 \ \ x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th   ,.   Zo   hoo                                        dOZ  0
C'>d I . C. b'.". S               A Nsf   TrI A G
..... d. Yg-.                                  E R,1 *    a   '->   .wiF  2 A   L   \    :    h  e  e\ #   :   : 02      M?n RoW&d
L. S.N.  L.g.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*oSS- S  pln.o
B.j                     S'.". d. Ag,..             E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ES.y   ro*.m.
A/  M.                          El C-~~~~~~6                               00 On0o,*.
:  0  cAo RrJp   nvA    ~~~\ !nrwlJI"s.:       ' ;    C  e r {; b                        :               g         S :    -        556y PRcd,ads
: ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                         ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .    I \  I  AY   P4e 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v I IC                                   I A 11: r  A                                                 .j   I,i_
77~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e ', :  j-, A  :E:,Ln:. 0                                                                          -   I:: L A  L T} A G R -efo
l   =  -   ',   ..          g   z  I                                                   z        }                z              z r    .                       i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.",SA



