Document of               FILE COPY
The World Baiik
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2643-DO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
November 29, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJEC.T
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit              =     Peso (RD$)
US$1.00                    =     RD$1.00
RD$1 million                     1 US$1 million
System of Weights and Measures
Metric                           British/US EquivaLeat:
1 meter (m)                =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (sq m)      =     0.386 square mile (sq mi)
metric ton (m ton)        =     1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Fiscal Year
Abbreviations
ONAPLAN            National Ptl;iaing Office
CEA                 State Sugar Council
SEOPC              Secretariat of Public Works and Communications
DGC                General Directorate of Highways
DGCV               General Directorate of Rural Roads
DGPP                General Directorate of Planning and Programing
DGT                Directorate of Transpo-rtation
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
PTU                Production Training Unit
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
USAID               United States Agency for Iitecriational Development
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAI USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            The Dominican Republic
Amount:              US$35 million
Terms:               Seventeen years including four years grace and a 7.95
percent per annum interest rate.
Description:         The project would (a) pursue the strengthening and expan-
sion of maintenance capacity undertaken under a ifirst
project; (b) initiate a high priority reconstruction
program for primary and secondary roads with 150 km of
road reconstruction and the completion of final design
studies of an additional 300 km of road reconstruction;
(c) demonstrate the application of labor based techniques
with the construction and improvement of 200 km of rural
access roads; (d) upgrade SEOPC maintenance personnel
through training; and (e) strengthen SEOPC's planning and
programming capacity through the establishment of a
special unit entrusted with that task. The project's
major risk is the limited maintenance and reconstruction
capability of SEOPC, which could be strained by t:he urgent
reconstruction requirements resulting from the recent
hurricanes. The rural roads program has a somewhat higher
level of risk than other project components because of
its experimental nature.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforac
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authozon.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                     Local   Foreign   Total
-----(US$ Million)-----
Road Reconstruction               8.4      15.7      24.1
Road Maintenance                  0.7      10.6      11.3
Training Program                  0.7       0.4       1.1
Rural Road Program                1.5       2.3       3.8
Base Cost                   11.3      29.0     40.3
Physical Contingencies            0.9       1.7       2.6
Price Contingencies               1.8       4.3       6.1
Total Project Cost          14.0      35.0     49.0
Financing Plan:                                   US$ Million        Percentage
Equivalent       Distribution
IBRD                            35.0             71.0
Government                      14.0             29.0
Total                      49.0            100.0
Estimated                                         ---US$ Million Equivalent---
Disbursements:       Bank FY                       1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual                       11.6    17.0      6.3      0.1
Cumulative                   11.6    28.6    34.9    35.0
Economic Rate        50 percent for total project, including 23 percent for
of Return:           road reconstruction, 100 percent for road maintenance,
and 27 percent for Rural Road Program.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 2698b-DO, dated November 27, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR A
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of US$35 million to help
finance a Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.95
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report "Current Economic Memorandum on the Dominican
Republic," (Report No. 2492-DO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 11, 1979. Relevant social and economic data are presented in Annex I.
This section describes economic developments prior to the onslaught of hurri-
canes David and Frederick in August/September 1979 and then assesses the
impact of the hurricanes on the economy.
3.        During 1968-74, the Dominican economy experienced an unprecedented
average annual increase in GDP of 10.5 percent. In 1974-1977, however,
economic growth slowed to only 5.3 percent per year. In 1978, preliminary
estimates indicate a further decline to 3.6 percent, while in 1979 ilt may be
negative because of the hurricanes.
4.        Economic growth during 1968-74 was led by exports of sugar and
minerals, by tourism and by a high level of both private and public investment.
During that period, the Dominican Republic was able to increase subsitantially
the volume of sugar exports, start the exploitation of ferronickel deposits,
undertake vigorous industrial expansion (mostly in import substitution indus-
tries), and establish itself in the Caribbean tourism market. The main reasons
for slower growth in recent years were poor agricultural performance, partly
as a result of droughts in 1975 and 1977, increase in petroleum prices since
1974, the drop in sugar prices after 1975, and--more recently--the depressed
world market for ferronickel and bauxite. Manufacturing, oriented mainly to
the domestic market and heavily dependent on imported intermediate and capital
goods, had been particularly affected by the slow growth of the economy and by
shortages of electricity. Industrial expansion during 1975-78 averaged 4.7
percent per year, compared with the 1968-74 average rate of 13.7 percent.
5.        The country's balance of payments, like that of most energy import-
ing, primary products exporting countries, deteriorated in the latter part of
this decade. In 1974 the cost of petroleum imports increased by over US$100
million and was largely responsible for the deficit in the balance of payments



- 2 -
in that year. Steep increases in the price of sugar created a surplus in
1975; but since then, sugar prices have fallen drastically, the demand for
ferronickel and bauxite has been weak, and the production of coffee and cocoa
stagnated, with the result that the deficit on current account has widened.
The balance of payments has also become sensitive to flows of capital from
private sources, which in turn reflect the perception abroad of factors affect-
ing risk and uncertainty in the Dominican economy. Because of a de facto dual
exchange rate system and the openness of the economy, the weakness in the
balance of payments is partly reflected in a 20 percent premium at which the
U.S. dollar trades in the parallel market. There was an unprecedented overall
balance-of-payments deficit of US$95 million in 1978 reflecting an estimated
increase in the current account deficit from US$264 million in 1977 to US$377
million in 1978 due to a continued decline in sugar prices, a drop in coffee
and cocoa prices, a substantial reduction of the volume of coffee and ferronickel
exports and a decline in net capital inflows. Because of the massive increase
in petroleum prices, the current account deficit in 1979 was expected to
reach US$480 million before the hurricanes.
6.         Inflation, which was minimal during the 1960s, accelerated in
the 1970s. The average annual increase in the Santo Domingo consumer price
index during 1971-77 amounted to 11.8 percent. This same index indicates a
reduction in the rate of inflation during 1978 to 3.5 percent reflecting a
fall in food prices following drought recovery and stable housing costs.
These categories account for almost two thirds of the weight in the index,
and had been the sources of upward pressure on prices during most of the
decade. Recent increases in gasoline prices, electricity rates, and wages,
will likely generate more upward pressure on prices during 1979.
7.        Past fiscal policy was cautious.  In 1968-77, current budget
surpluses averaged 6 percent of GDP (varying between 3 percent in 1968 and
10 percent in 1975) and financed, on average, 98.5 percent of the Central
Government's capital expenditures. Although the Government's long-term
savings performance was impressive, it was achieved at the expense of extremely
low growth of current expenditures, especially wages and salaries. During
1968-77, the average annual growth of recurrent expenditures was about 1.6
percent in real terms, and average real salaries of government employees
dropped considerably. This austerity limited the Government's ability to
operate and maintain the country's economic and social infrastructure as
well as to attract and retain capable personnel in government service.
8.         In 1978, the fiscal situation deteriorated, with an overall Central
Government deficit estimated at RD$114.5 million, mainly as a result of
a lower current surplus of RD$175 million, compared with RD$278.4 million
in 1977. The reduction in the current surplus was attributable to wage
increases granted to public employees, to a reduction of about RD$40 million
in revenues due to lower value of sugar exports, the temporary suspension
of export taxes on cocoa and coffee, and subsequent reduction by 50 percent
of export taxes on coffee.



- 3 -
9.         The Government which took office in August 1978 proposes to adopt
measures to strengthen the balance of payments and public sector finances,
stimulate export growth and eliminate price distortions unfavorable to agri-
culture and employment creation. Although a comprehensive package of economic
measures has not yet reached the stage of implementation, it is clear that the
Government has recognized the need for appropriate adjustments in policy.
It has resisted pressure to launch an ad hoc public works program to palliate
the country's acute unemployment problem. The congress has recently approved
legislation - the Export Promotion Law - providing tax incentives to exports
and allowing those engaged in non-traditional export activities to sell their
foreign exchange earnings in the parallel market, which normally trades at a
premium over the official exchange rate. The Congress is also considering
legislation providing special incentives for agro-industry. In addi-tion, the
Government is seeking to strengthen the fiscal situation by channelling the
plethora of earmarked taxes and special funds, which formerly put a large part
of public sector resources beyond the allocation decisions of the annual budget,
into a single consolidated fund and by improved administration of income taxes
and customs duties. Taxes on liquor and cigarettes were increased earlier this
year, while the tax on gasoline was increased when the prices on pet:roleum
products were adjusted to reflect the rise on crude oil prices toward the end
of June. It is expected that draft legislation, including value added and
sales taxes, and modifications in the real estate tax will shortly be put
before Congress. Also, measures are being taken to strengthen the autonomous
agencies such as the electricity company, for which an increase in rates was
recently approved, and the sugar corporation, which was relieved of the burden
of a cross subsidy to the electricity company. The Government's abi.lity to
secure approval by Congress of draft legislation will be critical to its
success in improving public sector finances. Its willingness to apply the
export promotion law in a flexible manner, and to adopt an appropriate monetary
program - as soon as the hurricane emergency permits - will be critical to its
efforts to diversify exports and strengthen the balance-of-payments.
10.        Creditworthiness has recently become of some concern.  The large
balance-of-payments' deficit in 1978 resulted in the depletion of the country's
already low net reserves. The level of gross reserves fell to less than the
equivalent of two months of imports, and the prospect is for further reserve
loss in 1979. Arrears in current payments, a periodic phenomenon in the
Dominican Republic, are increasing once more. While the Administraltion is
aware of these problems, its ability to implement appropriate corrective
measures has suffered from legislative delays. These considerations adversely
affect the country's ability to obtain financing from commercial sources even
*        though the level of public external debt in relation to GDP - 15.3 percent at
the end of 1978 and the ratio of public external debt service to exports -
10.2 percent in 1978 are not high in comparison to other developing countries.
The impact of the hurricanes (discussed in detail below) will add only one-half
percentage point to the debt service ratio which was expected to rise to 18
percent in 1979 because of bunched repayment obligations, before declining to
15 percent in 1980. The country's future borrowing requirements wi:Ll be quite
large, and will necessitate both concessionary and non-official funis. The



- 4 -
Government has indicated that it will implement the needed economic measures
while addressing the country's social problems. Because of limited export
prospects, the recent petroleum price increase, and the additional economic
constraints resulting from hurricane damages, there will obviously be diffi-
culties in harnomizing these goals. As we continue the dialogue on economic
policy, we will be monitoring closely the Government's response to the
challenges it faces. We consider that the Dominican Republic will continue to
be creditworthy for Bank lending provided the Government expeditiously imple-
ments policy measures which have been approved by its Congress and others
which it is now preparing.
Economic Impact of the Hurricanes
11.       On August 31, Hurricane David, with winds of 150 miles per hour,
smashed into the southern coast just west of Santo Domingo and crossed the
western section of the country to Monte Cristi, on the north coast just east
of the border with Haiti. On September 2, Frederick followed the same path
bringing less wind but deluging most of the country with torrential rains for
four days and causing extensive flooding of low lying plains and in the
fertile Cibao Valley, and landslides in many areas.
12.       The death toll has been set at over 2,000, with the majority of
deaths being attributed to drowning. Greater loss of life was avoided by
moving people prior to the hurricanes from squatter settlements in low lying
areas into schools, churches and public buildings offering more substantial
shelter. An estimated 100,000 people are now living precariously in refugee
centers. Over one million people were still receiving emergency assistance in
October.
13.       Damage to property has been extensive.  Some 2,400 km of roadway and
58 bridges were destroyed. In the power sector, one hydroelectric station was
destroyed, generating facilities were flooded at two other dams, while severe
damage was done to the transmission and distribution network in the southwest.
In the industrial sector, damages include the de-roofing of the majority of
factories in the Haina industrial area and the de-roofing of a large part of
the Herrera industrial estate in Santo Domingo. Damage to housing is partially
reflected in the total destruction of about 20,000 units.
14.       The economic impact of the disaster derives in part from the direct
loss of current production due to the destruction of crops and livestock, the
damage to goods in warehouses, and the interruption of services, largely in
the public utilities distribution and transportation sectors. In addition,
there will be an impact on future production due to impairment of productive
capacity, which will take time to be restored. This is likely to be signif-
icant in the case of permanent tree crops and forests, livestock, and elec-
tricity. The latter suffered a loss of one fifth of its generation capacity.
15.       Current estimates suggest a production loss of some RD$350-400
million in 1979, which will have the effect of converting an expected 4 to
5 percent positive growth of GDP into a decline of about 3 percent. While
there should be a substantial recovery in 1980, production losses in 1980
attributable to the hurricanes could be as much as RD$130 million (in 1979
prices), equivalent to 2 percent of GDP.



- 5 -
16.       Economic growth is very likely to be reduced over the medium term,
not only because the repair of damage to assets will take time, but also
because the cost of repair and replacement will require the diversion of
investment from uses which would have created a net addition to productive
capacity. The degree of investment diversion will depend on the extent to
which additional foreign resources become available.
17.       The balance of payments was further weakened by the hurricanes.
Coffee suffered extensive damage to the current crop with losses estimated at
25-30 percent and of about US$40 million in export earnings. In sugar, the
production loss has been put at around 125,000 tons valued at US$30 imillion.
Cocoa export earnings could be down by US$20 million. Earnings from non-
traditional exports will be reduced due to damage to factories and infra-
structure.
18.       The full impact of these losses will not fall in 1979, since not
all lost production would have been exported before December 31. It has
been estimated that in 1979, exports of goods and services will be reduced by
some US$35 million. An increase in imports will be required to compensate
food production losses, damage to inventories of intermediate goods, and to
buildings and equipment. The goods and non-factor services account is expected
to deteriorate by about US$60 million, but the deterioration could be larger
if reconstruction efforts gain momentum. For 1980, an increase in tlne goods
and non-factor services deficit of the order of US$120 million can be expected
because of hurricane damages.
19.       Assuming a substantial recovery of exports, additional transfers
and heavy disbursement of special reconstruction loans, the overall balance
of payments for 1980 could improve over former expectations. The $119 million
gap, however, would not be sustainable without additional financing, since by
then gross reserves may be approaching depletion. The authorities are consider-
ing an expansion of the list of imports not elegible for official foreign
exchange to dampen import demand. Nevertheless, additional financing will be
needed and is expected mainly from commercial and bilateral sources. This
clearly indicates the need for fundamental adjustments to balance-of-payment
weaknesses that were already evident before the hurricanes and that have now
been further aggravated.
20.       As a result of the loss in production, especially in coffee and
cocoa, and also the likely change in trade level and structure, current
revenues in 1979 are expected to decline by some RD$25 million, or 4 percent
of budgeted collections. The fiscal situation is expected to be tight;
pre-hurricane projections pointed to a decline in the current fiscal savings
of the Central Government, from RD$175 million in 1978 to RD$59 million in
1979, and a concurrent increase in the overall deficit from RD$115 million to
RD$188 million. In addition to already programmed capital expenditures,
emergency expenditure requirements by the Government of about RD$110 million
have been identified, some of which will have to be met in 1979.



- 6 -
21.       Physical asset damage has been estimated at around RD$400-500 million.
Some assets are covered by insurance, and a substantial part of reconstruction
will be left to private initiative. The Government's reconstruction program
addresses programs of an emergency nature, while the revised three-year
public investment program would address longer-term reconstruction needs.
22.       The emergency reconstruction program is expected to be carried out
during 1979 (40 percent) and completed in 1980. Total costs are estimated at
RD$230 million. In agriculture, the program would emphasize the recovery of
production of local food crops, which includes soil preparation, fertilizer
application, and provision of seeds, and the repair of irrigation systems.
Another priority is the immediate rehabilitation of coffee, cacao, and
plantain production.
23.       In the transport sector, priority will be given to the rehabilitation
of the road system whose deterioration has been of concern for some time and
to port repairs in Boca Chica, Haina, Santo Domingo, Barahona and Azua.
Among highways, highest priority has been assigned to the reconstruction of
Azua-Barahona, Cruz de Guayacanes-Santiago de la Cruz, Sanchez, and Duarte.
The first two comprise the Emergency Road Project. The reconstruction of
Sanchez and Duarte, which require minor repairs, is being undertaken with
local funds. Some 2,000 Km of rural road reconstruction will be carried out
with financing from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
24.       Repairs to the power generation and distribution system began
immediately after the hurricanes. There has been substantial restoration
of supply on an emergency basis, but the rehabilitation of the transmission
and distribution network would need to be included in the government's
longer-term programs. Repair of hydroelectric facilities at Valdesia, Tabera
and Jimenoa are expected to be accomplished within 5 months for the first two
facilities, while Jimenoa will require 30 months.
25.       The reconstruction program in housing is expected to cost some
RD$30 million. The first phase of the program would provide temporary tent
shelters to about 6,000 families, while its major emphasis would be to
provide low cost lots on publicly owned lands. Construction of low cost
housing, taking into account changed settlement patterns and geographical
distribution of the population, would be part of a longer term program.
26.       As regards industry, the Central Bank has created a special fund
of RD$50 million to finance replacement of inventories and other working
capital requirements.
27.       Expected assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources is
listed below. These figures indicate programmed operations that have been
advanced, as well as net increases in lending programs.



-7-
Multilateral
IDB:                 US$100 million
IBRD:                US$50 million
Bilateral
Federal Republic
of Germany:          DM 20 million = US$11 million
Venezuela:           US$40 million
U.S.A.I.D.:          US$15 million
28.       The above does not fully reflect the assistance that will be avail-
able for reconstruction. The IMF has recently approved a US$66 million
operation for emergency assistance. Of the multilateral and bilateral sources
of external finance, only the IMF's facilities, and $20 million from Venezuela
would be disbursed by the end of 1979. About $40 million of IDB loans, and
the proposed $25 million Bank loan to finance urgent import requirements would
be quick disbursing and are expected to be drawn down during the first half of
1980. The Dominican Republic may benefit from a provision of $1-1/3 million
allocation which was approved by the EEC for assistance to countries which
have been hit by Hurricane David. Also excluded were emergency contributions
to provide food, clothing and medicines.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
29.       The Bank Group began operations in the Dominican Republic in 1969.
Except for an enclave mining project, lending to the Dominican Republic was
on IDA terms prior to FY1975. Since then lending has been on Bank terms,
including two Third Window operations. Two loans, for a tourism infrastruc-
ture project and a second education project, were approved in FY1975 and two
loans, both on Third Window terms, for highway rehabilitation and maintenance
and population and family health, were approved in FY1977. Two loans, for
irrigation (Nizao Irrigation Project) and tourism (Second Puerto Plata Tourism
Project), were approved in FY1979, and a sugar rehabilitation project was
approved in the first quarter of FY1980. Total Bank loans and IDA credits
outstanding amount to US$135.1 million, of which US$88.7 million are undis-
bursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group loans and credits
as of October 31, 1979 and notes on the progress of ongoing projects.
30.       IFC has financed two operations in the Dominican Republic, an
investment in a cement plant approved in 1974, and a line of credit for
small and medium scale industry approved in 1978. Other projects are under
consideration by IFC.
31.       In the absence of adequate project preparation and of clear invest-
ment priorities, the Dominican Republic has failed in the past to make full
use of official long-term external assistance. Total lending of this type
amounted to US$335 million during 1970-77. The present Government has approved
a three year public investment program which should make it possible to increase



- 8 -
tne contribution of external development agencies to the financing of develop-
mlent. Assistance from IDB has included agriculture (credit programs and
irrigation); power (two multipurpose hydroelectric projects and rural electrifi-
cation); water supply and sewerage; and education. U.S. long-term assistance
consisted mainly of food (PL480) and loans for agriculture, health, and
education. Assistance from IDB for the next three years is expected to include
agriculture (with a major emphasis on agrarian settlement programs and credit),
education, potable water, irrigation and power. AI) assistance would concen-
trate on agricultural credit, integrated rural development and rural road
maintenance.
32.        Bank Group lending to the Dominican Republic has aimed at strengtll-
ening the balance of payments; improving social services available to the
lower income groups, particularly in rural areas; improving agricultural pro-
duction and land distribution; and strengthening institutions responsible for
major economic sectors.  We have, in the aftermath of hurricanes David and
Frederick, reviewed Bank lending operations in the light of urgent reconstruc-
tion requirements. A reconstruction package consisting of am emergency road
reconstruction project and a proposed loan to finance urgent import requirements
have been submitted to the Executive Directors. This Second Road Maintenance
and Reconstruction Project is part of the Government's long-term highway
rehabilitation program. It remains of high priority. Other projects under
consideration are an industrial credit operation, a coffee and cocoa rehabilita-
tion program and a low income housing project with emphasis on the provision
of sites and services.
33.       The Bank Group's share in the D)ominican Republic's external public
debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at 5.5 percent at the end of
1978. Tthe Bank Group's share of external public debt service in 1978 was
5 percent. Its share of outstanding public external debt would rise to
about 12 by 1985, while its share of external public debt service would
increase to about 6 percent.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
The Transport Sector
3/4.      The Dominican Republic relies for its transportation upon an exten-
sive road network, nine international ports, two operating international
airports and nine domestic airports, a publicly owned-railway line and several
private lines.  International freight traffic is concentrated in the Santo
Domingo and Haina ports in the South, and Puerto Plata in the North, whiclh
handle almost 60 percent of all imports and exports excluding petroleum.  Hlaina
port handles most of the country's petroleum imports of about 1.7 million tons.
International air traffic, which expanded rapidly since 1970, is almost exclu-
sively handled at Santo Domingo international airport.  Minor tourism traffic
aind some cargo for export is handled at La Romana international airport. A
new airport is being constructed in the tourist area of Puerto Plata.  Inter-
national road traffic between Haiti and the Dominican Republic is negligible.



- 9 -
35.       Because of the small size of the country, the location of its
resources and its economnic structure, internal transport distances are short.
The main exports--sugar and minerals--normally require hauls of less than 100
km. Average hauling distances do not exceed 125 km. This has made highway
transport the most widely used mode, accounting for almost 99 percent of total
domestic transport of goods (excluding sugarcane and sugar products') and
passengers. The railway network, which encompasses about 1,600 km, provides
freight transport for sugarcane and sugar products.
36.       The transport system in the country is broadly adequate, and although
the road network is not dense, it provides access to all major producing areas.
However, with a decline of transport sector investments in recent years, and
inadequate funding for operations and maintenance of physical facilities, thle
present condition of the system is poor. This has been exacerbated by hurri-
cane damages, which have rendered acute the need for road rehabilitation, in
particular.
Planning and Coordination
37.       Investment decisions for public transport expenditures are made by
the Office of the Presidency in its National Planning Office (ONAPLUN). ONAPLAN
is responsible for sectoral planning, taking into account the plans prepared
by the relevant agencies. The Secretariat of Public Works (SEOPC), which is
responsible for the transport system, has in the past lacked adequate capa-
bility to conduct sector planning and coordination. It has therefore had to
seek the assistance of foreign consultants. In 1973, a Highway Rehabilitation
and Administration Study (under UNDP financing) was prepared with the Bank
acting as executing agency. In 1978, a Technical-Economic Transport Sector
Study (TSS) was prepared with IDB assistance. These studies, particularly
the second, contained a survey of the sector and identified high priority
studies needed to provide a basis for adequate planning. Implementation of
the recommendations of these studies has been curtailed by lack of adequate
institutional arrangements, informality of the project selection process,
absence of statistics and systematized data collection for transport: planning,
and, until recently, failure to include economic feasibility considerations in
the formulation of investment programs. Furthermore, the capacity of SEOPC to
carry out these tasks has been limited by its inability to attract and retain
qualified staff, caused, in part, by the low salaries paid. More recently,
SEOPC has forMnulated a program to reorganize and strengthen its administrative
and planning capabilities. In this context, it has negotiated with IDB a two
year technical assistance program.
38.       The transport sector does not present major issues of intermodal
coordination and planning, and the lack of overall sectoral planning has not
resulted in any major misallocation of resources. For the future, Lhe attitude
of the present administration, which recognized the problem and intends to begin
implementation of a modern personnel administration system and to strengthen
planning--particularly in the highway mode--is a positive development. The
establislhment by SEOPC of a Road Reconstruction Planning Unit and the formula-
tion of the road rehabilitation and maintenance programs, both integral parts
of this project, would provide the basis for the improvement of planning in
the highway mode, which at this time constitutes an urgent need, in view of



- 10 -
SEOPC's ambitious public investment program and the tight fiscal situation.
SEOPC's capacity would be supplemented by a Special Construction Management
Unit responsible for the execution of civil works under the Emergency
Road Reconstruction Project.
Recent Sector Improvements and Developments
39.       The administration which took office in August 1978 is in the pro-
cess of formulating its goals for the sector. The TSS is obviously the
strongest background document for Government followup. From its recommenda-
tions for studies, policies and preliminary project investment identification,
the Government is selecting a few for early implementation. The vehicle axle
load and dimension regulations and the administrative reorganization of SEOPC
are the most important. Among the investments identified, the countrywide list
of road rehabilitation priorities is being used as a base for the Government's
1980-1984 five-year reconstruction program. In the port subsector, the recom-
mendations for the construction of a new port at Haina and expansion works at
Puerto Plata are also being followed.
40.       A public sector investment plan for 1980-1982 has recently been
approved. It contains recommendations for transport project investments,
with a total cost estimated at $362 million, including highway reconstruction,
strengthening of maintenance capacity and improvement of the feeder road
network; continuation of the Haina Port construction and expansion (breakwater)
of the Puerto Plata Port; and purchase of aircraft for the Dominican flag
carrier (Dominicana de Aviacion). This investment plan is now under revision to
include urgent investments needed for hurricane reconstruction. In addition to
the 150 km of emergency road reconstruction included in the Emergency Road
Reconstruction Project, other urgent investments for roads, bridges and rural
road would be included. The proposed project constitutes the starting point
for the implementation of a first phase of the Road Reconstruction and Mainte-
nance Program proposed in the plan.
The Highway Subsector
41.       The basic road network consists of three trunk highways radiating
from Santo Domingo: the Duarte Highway to the north (263 km), the Sanchez
Highway to the west (193 km) and the Mella Highway to the east (75 km).  The
size of the national system is adequate for the present level of economic
activity, and construction of additional highways is therefore not of high
priority. However, the condition of the network is not satisfactory. Some
2,000 km or 45 percent of the paved roads have reached a degree of obsolescence
and deteriorated to the point where preventive maintenance is no longer mea-
ningful. Such roads need reconstruction/rehabilitation on the basis of full
engineering studies and modern pavement design. This situation has been
exacerbated by damages to the road network caused by Hurricanes David and
Frederick, particularly in the northwest and south. Emergency road recon-
struction is essential to the transport of produce to urban areas for
domestic consumption and for export.
42.       The need to improve road maintenance has been recognized as one
of the major requirements in the highway subsector. The present administra-
tion declared this to be one of its high priority objectives. The Bank has



- 11 -
supported since 1977 (Loan 1316T-DO) the initation of a highway maintenance
program. As a result, the level of road maintenance has increased markedly
while institutional improvements have been achieved. The maintenance of the
network is now under the responsibility of a new Sub-Directorate of Maintenance
created within SEOPC as a result of the technical assistance provided under the
First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project. Also, a new Training
Section responsible for personnel training has been organized. At the same
time, the infrastructural support to carry out maintenance activities has
been substantially improved. Continuation of the ongoing works is essential
to bring maintenance activities to a more adequate level, as planned in the
Five Year Maintenance Program for 1980-1984.
43.       Estimated contributions from road user charges (US$52.2 million
p.a.) have been substantially above total highway expenditures. It is
estimated that, over the next years, proceeds from road user charges would
be adequate to support planned expenditures for implementing the reconstruc-
tion and maintenance programs as well as future outlays for construction.
The most important revenue source is the motor fuel tax, which accounts for
about 50 percent of the road user charges. The other two important revenue
sources are vehicle fees and import duties on vehicles.
44.       Future economic groth of the country depends upon facilitating
access to arable areas in order to increase agricultural production. The
need to improve and expand the feeder roads system has been recognized
by the Government. The General Directorate of Feeder Roads of SEOPC was
given more authority in the area of feeder roads. It has two projects
currently under preparation which would be financed by IDB and by USAID.
Given this relatively strong external support for construction of fe,eder
roads, the role of the Bank should be to develop planning and construction
methods and to test the potential of labor-based technologies, which appear
prima facie to be suitable in the context of high levels of unemployment.
Road Traffic and Vehicle Fleet
45.       About one half of the principal products in the country and almost
all passengers are carried by road. This is reflected in the relatively high
traffic density which shows that some 10 percent of the national net:work
carries over 3,000 vehicles per day and about 35 percent carries over 1,000
vehicles per day. Vehicle registration, which between 1967 and 1974 grew
by 14 percent, has slowed to 9 percent since 1975. The composition of the
vehicle fleet is 64 percent passenger cars, 34 percent trucks and 2 percent
buses. About 30 percent of passenger cars perform public services and about
63 percent of all trucks are of a pickup type. About 60 percent of the whole
fleet is registered in the cities of Santo Domingo and Santiago.
The Road Transport Industry
46.       The trucking industry is divided into a large number of single-
vehicle owners. These account for 98 percent of the medium and heavy trucking
fleet, which totals 17,000 units. There are five multi-vehicle companies
with six to 40 vehicles. Single-vehicle owners transport products from rural
areas to cities, and multi-vehicle companies provide intercity transport.



- 12 -
Rates and tariffs are regulated by SEOPC's General Directorate of Transporta-
tion. In practice, however, the enforcement of tariff regulation is lax,
and charges are about 25 percent higher than official ones. Single-vehicle
owners, who are generally ready to operate with low profit margins, have
created a highly competitive environment.
Vehicle Weight and Dimension Regulations
47.       Three weighing stations were installed by SEOPC in 1972 and two are
under construction. When all the weighing stations are operational, it will
be possible to monitor the majority of trucks in the country for weight control.
At present, trucks are inspected for compliance of weight regulatons, but not
for axle load or vehicle dimensions, in the absence of a clearly defined axle
load policy. To remedy this, a covenant was included in Loan Agreement No.
1316-DO which stipulates that the Government would, by December, 1976, enact
regulations defining maximum vehicle axle loads and dimensions. This, however,
was not done because the government felt it needed additional time to carry out
a comprehensive study on vehicle axle loads and dimensions.  SEOPC has under-
taken the preparation of such a study, with financing from IDB. It is expected
to be completed by December 1980. SEOPC has agreed to complete the study and
to subsequently enact vehicle axle load and dimension regulations in accordance
with a timetable agreed with the Bank (Section 3.12 of the draft L.oan Agreement).
Bank Role in the Highway Subsector
48.       The Bank's previous involvement in the highway subsector consists
of the provision of technical assistance as executing agency under the UNI)P-
financed Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study (1973), and the First
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project (Loan 1316T-DO, US$5.0 million,
August 1976), which, initiated highway reconstruction and maintenance programs.
The Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study provided the first highway
inventory and carried out the first systematic traffic data collection in the
Dominican Republic and was the first attempt to use economic evaluation for
the selection of projects and the formulation of a road rehabilitation program.
In addition, it reviewed the need for workshops and workshop equipment and
tools and road maintenance equipment and parts, all of which served as a base
for the formulation of the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project.
49.       The Bank's First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project in-
cluded (a) the initiation of a highway maintenance program, including the
purchase of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and workshop rehabili-
tation, and improvement of road maintenance procedures and planning; (b) the
reconstruction of a 19-km road section; and (c) technical assistance for the
maintenance program and, consulting services for supervision of road recon-
struction. The limited objectives of the project were broadly achieved. The
level of road maintenance has increased markedly, and improvements in the
methods of design and supervision of road reconstruction works have been
applied. At the same time, the infrastructural support indispensable for
successful maintenance has been laid out: 18 new workshops have been built
and equipped, and a number of maintenance equipment units have been purchlased
to increase the grossly inadequate existing fleet. The reconstruction of the
19-km Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris road is scheduled for completion



- 13 -
by the end of 1979; that is with a 15 month delay resulting from the failure of
the initial contractor, and subsequent decision by SEOPC to complete the works
by force account.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The project was appraised in April - May 1979.  A report entitled
Staff Appraisal Report Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project
Dominican Republic (Report No. 2698b-DO dated November 27, 1979) is being
distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington on November 21,
1979. The Dominican Delegation was headed by Ing. Arsenio Fernandez, Under-
Secretary of State of Public Works and Communications.
Project Objectives and Description
51.       The development of adequate maintenance capacity and the reconstruc-
tion of the road network are long-term endeavors requiring policies and
programs extending beyond the four- to five-year implementation period of a
single project. This factor has been recognized in the preparation of the
proposed project, which is based on a broadly defined maintenance and recon-
struction program covering the 1980-1989 period. The long-term program is
defined in terms of key aggregates determining the scope of annual programs
and provides a basis to assess capacity requirements, trained manpower and
logistical support, and to set institutional objectives. The full realization
of the long-term objectives pursued through the project would extend beyond
its implementation period. However, the objectives of the project and the
resulting requirements are defined with sufficient precision to allow assess-
ment of progress.
52.       The long-term maintenance and reconstruction program adopted by
the Government for 1980-1989 would provide for the cumulative reconst:ruction
of nearly 2,000 km of roads and the maintenance of a network of 5,500 kmn, at
a rate which corresponds to the financial capacity of the Government.
Specific annual programs were prepared and adopted by SEOPC for the first
five years, 1980-1984. These programs include the works under the proposed
project as well as the reconstruction of road sections damaged by the recent
hurricanes. The latter include the Emergency Road Reconstruction Project,
which has been submitted to the Executive Directors.  The Government has
confirmed that it would provide adequate funds through its budget for its
1980-1984 maintenance and reconstruction program and that it would exchange
views with the Bank annually, at the time of preparation of the budget, on
implementation and financing (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreemenat).
53.       In the context of the Government's commitment to pursue long-term
maintenance and reconstruction programs, the project would:
-    strengthen and expand maintenance capacity undertaken under the
First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project;



- 14 -
-    initiate a high priority road reconstruction program for primary
and secondary roads with obsolete pavements;
-    assess the feasibility of applying labor-based techniques
to the improvement and maintenance of rural roads;
-    upgrade SEOPC's maintenance personnel through functional and
skill training; and
build up SEOPC's capacity to plan and program road reconstruction
works through the establishment of a special unit entrusted with
that work.
The institutional objectives have been kept simple and directly related to
the project. The establishment of a capacity to plan reconstruction works
effectively would have a demonstration effect and would lead at a later stage
to the strengthening of the planning function of SEOPC.
Reconstruction Program
54.       SEOPC's reconstruction program for the 1980-1984 period covers some
800 km, of whlich 150 km. are under the proposed project. Engineering studies
for about 317 km of roads programmed for 1983-1985, are included in the
project. The selection of roads included in SEOPC's reconstruction program
was based on the TSS (1978) and on the inventory analysis developed for the
preparation of the maintenance program under the First Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project. Engineering for the 150 km of roads selected for the
project has been completed. SEOPC also retained consultants to carry out the
economic study of the reconstruction program and to coordinate and oversee
the technical work of local consultants.
55.       The proposed reconstruction would consist of raising and widening
the platform along existing alignments and improvements of cross drainage.
Pavement structure would include selected gravel or crusher run covered with
an asphaltic carpet or a double bituminous surface treatment. The execution
of the works would be under the authority of SEOPC's General Directorate of
Highways. Supervision would be entrusted to a joint venture of an interna-
tional consulting firm and local consultants. Local consultants have the
capacity to handle most of the field work, but would need assistance and
guidance on specialized technical matters and construction management.
Detailed terms of reference have been agreed with SEOPC. The hiring of the
consultants for supervision would be a condition of disbursement for road
reconstruction works (Sections 3.02(a) and para. 4(b) of Schedule I of the
draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The engineering of 317 km of reconstruction would be entrusted
to local consultants under the General Directorate of Highways. A special
Unit would be established within SEOPC's General Directorate of Planning
and Programming to plan, program and study the economic feasibility of road
reconstruction projects. The terms of reference, staffing and institutional
arrangements for the Unit have been discussed and agreed with the Government.
The Government has confirmed that the Reconstruction Planning Unit would be
dtuly established, funded and equipped by June 30, 1980 and fully staffed by
Decemher 31, 1980.  (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
Highway Maintenance Program
57.       Over the last three years, SEOPC's General Directorate of Highways
has developed a systematic approach to the planning, scheduling and control
of its annual program of maintenance activities. The improved procedures
have been tested in two districts and are now being introduced countrywide.
The project would support the consolidation of the system throughout SEOPC's
organization. The system establishes ground rules for the formulation of
an annual program of activities which are closely interrelated with the recon-
struction program, since roads in need of reconstruction require temporary
maintenance. The Government has confirmed that it would pursue the country-
wide implementation of the five year maintenance program and prepare and adopt
an annual maintenance plan based on SEOPC's Final Report on Planning for Highway
Maintenance and Rehabilitation of January 1979 (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
58.       The implementation of annual maintenance programs would require
the level of government funding indicated in paragraph 65. In addition,
improvements would be introduced in budgeting practices to establish a rigorous
definition and separation of maintenance activities from construction and
reconstruction works. The Government has indicated that SEOPC would adopt
a budgeting system beginning in its fiscal year 1980, by which: (a) the
highway maintenance budget would be separated from other SEOPC activities; and
(b) the maintenance budget would contain specific allocations for various
components, in particular labor, materials, equipment, fuel, administration
and contracts for periodic maintenance (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The project would include a set of coordinated measures to pursue the
buildup of SEOPC maintenance capacity in line with the long term program. A
major element would be the expansion and renewal of the equipment fleet,
including the equipment to be purchased under the Emergency Road Reconstruc-
tion Project. The project would also provide the spare parts necessary to set
up adequate stocks to generalize preventive maintenance procedures arid to
carry out the overhaul   of some 52 salvageable equipment units.  The equip-
ment list and the schedule for procurement have been reviewed and agreed upon
with SEOPC. The Government has confirmed that the availability and utiliza-
tion of its equipment fleet would be monitored and assessed annually and that
improvements in equipment management would also include the systematic plan-
ning of renewal, overhaul and scrapping. SEOPC would adopt adequate proced-
ures by June 30, 1981, and the resulting plans for equipment overhaul and
renewal would be consulted with the Bank at the time of the review of the
annual maintenance program (Section 3.11(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
improvements introduced over the last two years and the implementation of the
measures to build up SEOPC's maintenance capacity would require technical
assistance during the first two years of the project. SEOPC would contract
this technical assistance no later than March 31, 1980 and would review
requirements for technical assistance by December 31, 1980 in consult:ation
with the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Training of Maintenance Personnel
59.       The highway maintenance personnel training component would continue
the program initiated under the First Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Project and would be addressed to supervisors, equipment operators, mechanics,



- 16 -
accountanits and administrative personnel.  The program, aimed at improving the
productivity of some 900 staff, would include organization and operation
of a field production unit, strengthening of SEOPC's fraining Unit, purchasing
of training equipment and materials, organization of workshops and training
abroad of some senior maintenance engineers. Training of foremen/overseers and
operators/drivers will be carried out in the field. A Production Training Unit
(PTU) will be set up to carry out rehabilitation/maintenance operations on
specific road sections within SEOPC's annual maintenance program.  Training of
mechanics will be conducted mostly at the Sanchez workshop where physical facili-
ties already exist but which require modest rehabilitation and expansion.
Repairing worn and broken equipment will form the basis of mechanical staff
training.  Seminars will also be conducted for equipment supervisors, store-
keepers, maintenance engineers and accountants, both in Santo Dotningo and in
the districts.
60.       The four-year training program would require technical assistance by
thlree expatriate training specialists provided by a finn of consultants, one
of whom would act as the senior training advisor to SEOPC's staff responsible
for planning, coordinating and monitoring all training activities. Dominican
trainers would also be financed under the Bank loan, together with per diem
for trainiees. The Government has confirmed that it would establish and equip
the PTU, provide adequate funds for its operation, and arrange for the recruit-
ment of Dominican trainers following the beginning of technical assistance
services (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Pilot Rural Roads Program
61.       The pilot rural roads program, including the construction of 200 kin
of roads, would provide an assessment of appropriate labor-equipment mixes
and the institutional arrangements to implement such programs.  The 200 km of
roads were selected on the basis of a preliminary economic assessment, taking
into account the geographical distribution and the availability of surplus
labor. The feasibitity studies carried out jointly by SEOPC and Bank consul-
tants have identified the first 50 km of rural roads to be built under Phase I
of the program. Reconnaissance-type engineering for the proposed works is
now in progress so that construction could be initiated as soon as the program
gets under way. The project would include the acquisition of equipment to
supplement labor-based techniques. Laborers would be selected from unemployed
and under employed rural workers in each rural area where rural roads are
constructed. Phase II covers 150 km to be studied and constructed following
the metthodology developed in Phase I.
62.       The review of the reconnaissance-type engineering designs for Phase I
showed the need for flexibility in the application of geometric design stanld-
ards antd the necessary revisions have been introduced.  This sample engineer-
ing was used to estimate costs for the whole 200-km rural roads pilot program.
The cost estimates are tentative, which is acceptable given the small rela-
tive size and the nature of the pilot program. SEOPC would establish a Depart-
ment of Labor-Based Construction in its Directorate of Rural Roads.  The
piLot project would be executed by this department which would be assisted by
specialized externial consultants to establislh basic design standards, estab-
lish procedures for labor recruitment and payment, staff training and cost
accounting (Section 3.13 of the draft Loan Agreement).  Tenns of reference for
the specialized consultants have been agreed with SEOPC.



- 17 -
63.       Labor costs are critical for the economic feasibility of labor-based
road construction techniques. Recent research suggests that labor-based
methods are cost-effective for daily wage rates of up to RD$ 2. The economic
analysis of the project shows that at the shadow wage rate of RD$ 2/day, which
corresponds to the shadow wage rate for rural unskilled labor in the Dominican
Republic, the economic cost is similar for labor-based techniques and for
conventional labor-equipment mixes. At the current minimum wage for rural
labor of RD$ 3.50/day, the financial cost of a given road section is up to
20 percent higher applying labor-based techniques rather than conventional
labor-equipment mixes. The Government is prepared to incur this additional
cost to test the feasibility of labor-based techniques for the construction of
rural roads. In the Government's view the additional cost is justified by the
benefits from employment and income generation in selected rural areas. The
mix of labor and equipment would be evaluated and adjusted throughout the
period of execution of the project with a view to achieve cost effectiveness
considering the shadow price of wages. The results would be applicable to
other projects, including the rural road projects financed by USAID and IDB.
Project Costs and Financing
64.       The total project cost is estimated at US$49.0 million, of which
about $35 million, or 72 percent of total costs, represent foreign exchange
requirements. The baseline project costs amount to US$40.3 million on the
basis of mid-1979 prices.  Physical and price contingencies amount to US$2.6
million and US$6.1 million respectively. Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 10 percent and price contingencies at 14 percent. The project
would require about 557 man-months of specialized services, including 173
man-months of expatriate consultants. The average man-month cost for consult-
ants has been estimated at US$3,800.
65.       The proposed loan of US$35 million would finance the foreign exchange
cost of the project. The Government would finance the local cost component,
estimated at US$14 million, including taxes, and the recurrent expenditures
for the Five-Year Maintenance Program (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The total Bank contribution to the Road Reconstruction Program for the
years 1980-1982 under the Emergency Road Reconstruction Project and the present
project is about US$38.0 million. Engineering studies for the roads programmed
for the subsequent years, 1983-1985, some 317 km, are included in the proposed
project. The provision by Government of adequate funds through its recurrent
budget to implement the 1980-1984 maintenance program, amounting to RD$ 46.0
million (at 1979 RD$ values) has been agreed.
Disbursements
66.       Project expenditures eligible for disbursement under the Bank loan
would be as follows:
(a)  63 percent of the total expenditures for civil works for road recon-
struction, rural road improvements and campsites; and, supervision
of the construction and engineering of road reconstruction works;



- 18 -
(b) 80 percent of the total expenditures for technical assistance services
to the reconstruction planning unit; technical assistance for
highway maintenance and training; and technical assistance for rural
road construction and for supervision thereof;
(c) 95 percent of the total expenditures for locally procured imported
equipment, spare parts and tools;
(d) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for direct imports of equip-
ment, spare parts and tools; and for training abroad; and
(e) 100 percent of total expenditure for per diem of SEOPC trainees.
Disbursement of loan funds would be made against normal documentation for all
items except for civil works for rural road improvements to be carried out
by force account in which case disbursement would be made against a statement
of expenditures, verified by the heads of the consultant team retained for
technical assistance for the rural road and training programs. The project
account, including the pilot rural road program which is to be carried out by
force account, would be audited by independent external auditors acceptable
to the Bank (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Execution
67.       SEOPC will be responsible for project execution through the following
departments and divisions:
-    the General Directorate of Planning and Programing will be in
charge of the planning of future reconstruction;
-    the General Directorate of Highways will be responsible for
reconstruction works, including engineering of future works,
and for the Maintenance Program, the latter being handled by
the Assistant Director of Maintenance;
-    SEOPC's Training Unit under the direct authority of the Director
General of Highways will be responsible for the training program;
and, finally,
-    the General Directorate of Rural Roads will be responsible for
the rural roads program.
These units would have adequate capacity to carry out the project. The project
is large, however, in relation to SEOPC's absorptive capacity particularly as
seen in connection with the Emergency Road Reconstruction Project, and the
situation would have to be kept under close review.  The Government has confirmed
that the number and qualifications of the staff of SEOPC directly responsible for
the implementation of various project components would be reviewed from time
to time, together with arrangements for coordination among units (Section 3.09
of the draft Loan Agreement). Consultants for supervision of the reconstruc-
tion works would assume a leading role in program coordination. The employ-
ment of these consultants is a condition for disbursement for the civil works
under the road construction component.



- 19 -
Procurement
68.       Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement." Contracts for equipment and parts with estimated
costs over US$50,000 would be awarded through international competitive bidding.
Lots with an estimated cost below US$50,000 and within an overall ceiling of
US$500,000 would be advertized locally. Spare parts for specific makes of
equipment would be procured directly from established dealers under the same
regulations for individual orders of less than US$50,000 within an overall
ceiling of US$500,000. Reconstruction works would be carried out through unit
price contracts awarded to prequalified firms on the basis of international
competitive bidding. For bidding purposes, the reconstruction program has
been divided into five lots ranging from 25 to 32.2 km. Firms would be pre-
qualified to tender for one or more lots according to their capacity.
Project Benefits
69.       The quantifiable benefits for the road reconstruction component are
measured by the direct savings to be derived by highway users, namely vehicle
operating cost savings. These savings were determined by comparing the
operating costs of three types of vehicles (light vehicles, including pickups,
buses and trucks) traveling on the network before and after various road
reconstruction and maintenance alternatives were implemented. The benefits
resulting from savings in vehicle operating costs are ultimately expected to
be transferred in large part to the producers and consumers of the goods which
are transported. This is expected as a result of the highly competitive nature
of the transport industry (both for passengers and cargo) in the Dominican
Republic.
70.       The proposed project is well justified with an overall economic rate
of return (ERR) of over 50 percent. Considered independently, the ERR of the
road maintenance program is estimated at over 100 percent.  This h:Lgh ERR is
caused by the relatively low investment required to preserve the productive
capacity of the large investments made in highway construction. ThLe ERR for
the reconstruction program is estimated at about 23 percent. The ERR of the
proposed pilot rural road program, based on the results of the analysis of 50
km of roads included in the first phase of implementation is 27 percent. Since
the criteria and methodology applied to the first phase would be extended to
the remaining 150 kmn, the above ERR could be considered representative of the
whole program.
Project Risks
71.       The main risk arises from the fact that the programs which would be
pursued or initiated under the project and the concurrent Emergency Reconstruction
Project are large in relation to SEOPC's capacity. It was felt that the urgency
and magnitude of the task faced by SEOPC in maintenance and especially in re-
construction (2,000 km of its main network) justified setting relaLtively
ambitious objectives. The Pilot Rural Roads Program has been prepared with
adequate depth and is strongly supported by the Government.  Giveri its experi-
mental nature it has a somewhat higher level of risk than the other project
components.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic and the Bank, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.    Condition of disbursement for the road reconstruction component would
be the hiring of consultants to carry out the supervision of reconstruction
works.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 29, 1979



- 21 -                                                       TNTlEX I
Page 1 of 5
TA3LE 3A
DOMINICAN RE?'JBL:C - SOCIAL 2NDICATORS :ATA SHEE-
4WERRS-lCE ORO'?s  AD3.JLOTI0 AE,ERAI0
.tN2  AEA (-ROUD  SC .  x.; iDOMINICAN DEPO3LI                                     - iEh   .gCOLP   1JE' E     a    :
.'AL               4d.7                                                        S.A?1         SA;E      NEXT -iKGHER
l,Gll0' L. -RI      24.7                                    'OST 3ZZINT       IEOGRAPHIC      '4C0M       *INCZM
1960  '4    1970 /b ESTI.ATE /b          REC.ON  c   .ROUP 'd    .ROUP  e
GNP PER CAPITA ILSS)                     240.0         390.0      910.0            124.4       1097.7        194Z.6
ENERGI TObSUOLIO6 PER C.PITA
'EIL0SRANS OF COAL EOUIVALEN-)         157.0        3Z1.0       653.0            943.1        730.7       1646.7
POPULLATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, XID-YT.AR (M iLLIONS)        3.0     3     .1         5.0
CLhAN  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3            39.8        45.9              59.3        49.0          51.2
POPULATION PRO.TCTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 20CO (MILLIONS)                             9.0
STATIONAR7 POPULATION (KILLIONS)                              15.0
TEAR S-ATIONARY POPULATION IS RLACNRD                       2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SO. n.                            63.0         83.0      103.0              23.5         44.6         28.2
PEP. SO. KM. AGERICLL7URAL LANE      166.0        174.0      204.0              10.5        140.7        100.5
POPULATTION ACE S3.RCTUlRE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             46.8         48.2       47.0              S0.9         41.3         35.4
15-64 YRS.                             50.3         49.1       50.0              S4.4         55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AlD AJOVE                       2.9          2.7         3.0               3.9         3.5           5.1
POPULATION OEOI43 RATE (PERCEOT)
TQTAL                                  3.6          2.9         2.9               2.4         2.4           1.7
UR.AN                                  6.1          5.8         5.4               3.7         4.5          3.0
CR101E RIR-H RA-E (PER TII3SAND)        50.0         45.0        37.0              32.8        31.1          27.5
CRLDE DEA-H RATE (PER THOUSAND)         16.0         12.0         9.0               8.5         9.2           9.1
GROSS REPRODUCT!ON  ATE                   ..          3.5         3.4               2.4         2.2           1.8
FAHI-LY PLANNTNG
ACCEPTORS, AI.NIAL  T-HOOSANDS)         ..         17.2       61.5
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED W%IEN)    ..                ..      30.3               17.7        34.7
OOD AND STR7ITJON
INDEX OF FOOD P?ODUCTI0N
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             121.3        101.0       39.0              99.4        104.4        102.0
PER CAP ITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUTREM.NTS)                      92.0          88.0       98.0             107.0       105.0         120.E
PRO-EtNS (GP,AMS PEE DAY)             46.0         50.0       .5.4              60.4         64.4        80.9
OF A18CH ANLMAh  AND PUESE            ..         29.0       23.3              28.3         :3.5         31.:
CHILD (AGES 1-4) h0R-ALI-Y RATE         23.0         15.3        10.0               6.7         8.6           5.1
HEAL T
LITF  EC CY AT SIRTH (YEARS)    51.0                 57.3        60.0             63.6         60.2         65.6
INFANT MORTALITY R_ATr  (PER
r30GCSAND)                               ..         96.0/J        ..              76.:        46.7         45.'
ACCESS TO SAFE CA.ER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
T-TAL                                   ..         37.1       55.0              63.4         60.8         69.-
URAIN                                   ..         72.0       88.0              79.5         75.7         85.1
RURT9AL                                 ..         14.0       27.0              38.6         40.0         43.3
A_CESS TV E7CRETA t'SPOSAL (PERCENT
OF ?OPUL-T'ON)
TOTAL                                   ..         58.0       42.0              58.8         46.0         70.1
UR3A.N                                  ..         63.0        7..0             77.8         46.0         88.3
kURAL                                   ..         54.3        16.0             24.5         22.5         33.2
POp'GPTI0N PER ?HYSICIAN                  ..       2100.0    1870.0 1           1841.9       2262.4       1343.2
?OPC'!A-'ON ?ER rURSING PERSON            ..       3930.0    1330 . 0L.          933.7       1195.4        76S.2
?0P'J.AITON ?ER HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                               400.0         350.0      350.0/h           563-.        453..        197.4
uRSM'                                   ..        150.0      220.2             279.4       253.1         260.2
RU .A:.                                          2680.Oih  3580.i0/           1140.9      2732.4 -       055.D
ADMISSICNS PER HOSP'-AL RED                .            ..       30.0/h            25.7        22.1i          7.3
E- .0 2SIE CF aouSEHioLD
TITAL                                 5.0                       ..               5.-7 ..
JR3AN                                  4.8          5.2          ..              .. 8         5.2           .4
?F.5 S.l1    '.*         ..               5.3          5. 5L
AVi-ACE NM.Y5E  3F ?ERSONS PER ROOM
2.0            .          .               1.            .           1.9
.R341                       ~~~     ~~1.6  ..          ..              :.3          1.l           12
2.2            ..        ..               ..5
AC=SS' 7C   -C7-R:CITY PESC2E:7
IF D3E! .L:7101
.-O.L                                 10.2           ..         ..              54.3         ,2..1n:
ASBAN                                 '7.             ..         ..             30.           :.          45.:
RLRP-                                  3.Z           ..          ..             1-           17.3



- 22 -                                               AJiET   I
Pa2e 2 c f
DOV;N::Ay LEsP;:S:   - SO':oc. :,:.CA:.0RS  :CA-.A Sh
OMTlNSCAN RZtL322 -1n'S- R_:ZS._ '-
SAKE          SAx.nE    'iEC7 3GFEi;
voS5  RECZXN.      ZZCGRA?P4      12NsCE         :'iCZc'z.
1960 'b       1970  'b  S LI:MA?  /b       OZION   c   CROLP 'd    =8ROUP ;e
AirCS.;C  LNROLI.3N iD RA.;OS
PRIXARY:        07AL                   98.0          101i.      110.0              107.3        102.5         101.7
XALE                    99.0         1O0.2       109.u              109.1        .08.6 6        10.0
FEMALE                  98.0         ,02.0C    I1i.3                107.4         97 .1         92.8
SECONDARY:   70a:                        7.0          19.C       24.2               40.5         33.5           51.2
MAUL                      7.0          19.0       24.0               40.4         38.'          56..
MALE                     7.0           29.0       24.G               39.0         30.7          .3.7
VOCAIOKAN. 'SROL. (: or SECsJDARY)          ..           8.0         9.0               18.5         11.5          18.3
rJ?IL-lAMEl RAO?G
?ID RY                                  58.0    5       . 0         ..              37.1         35.8          27.1
SECONDARY                               16.0          2r.0          .              17.9    Z        9         25.3
AXL'7 L:ERAZY LATE (PERCfltV)             66. 5         67.2        67 .               7 7.' *       4. D         86.1
_C'SSION
PASSESC'F' CARS PV R OUSA'T
P00fi2tC0OS                              i..          10.0        16.0              29.          13.55.
F'2A;C ,0ZI,l5L PSR MdROOSAXD
FP7-.A-:ON                             3..            36.0       40.0              172.1   I;2. .         Z     5.9
- .ZCZIVfRS PER   OU SA ND
PCn.tLA6106                              6.0          23.C       3.0                67.9         3S.3         102.6
-StS?A?ER 2'DAZY  -MERAL
NRLS:, CZIP.Z1fATIOH ?ER
-OUSAND ?OPL'LAT0:3                      2,.0          36.0        42.0               76.1         40.0          78.5
CE-snA AW4NAL A=.YDXANCE PER CA?ITA  2.0                  i.2         ..                4.2          3.7           3.6
Ln 30R -CRC:
-03.-A   LA30R FORCE (fl20LSAKOS)       S20.0         1100.C     1200.0
9MILZ  '935033N)                        10.5          11.2        11.9              21.5         _.0           24.5
AGR-.:.-JPE  (PER_E77)                  66.4          61.2        23.0              3C.2         43.53          2.9
tJDUSTRY fP(?RCEZ)                      12.2          I.. 0       16.0              23.E         21.5          30.C
95770709479 KsA7E 'PE?bEI.T)
.-0-1'                                    28.6          26.8        25.5              30.9          33.5          33.3
MALI                                      30.4-          4.1        45o.3              .7.3         46.0          51.3
tE.MALS                                    6.1           6.1         6.3               13.3         16.8          16.3
E2CN0M94   DCP'.SDEN'Y RLCIO                  2.0           2.1         2.3               1.5          1.4            1.3
953207 Di- 930047! INC5!SZ
9007000S 3Y
iHG,ES- 5 Pn3C!\7 OF SCUSEHOLDS 0..                    6.3;/     05.1                ',.         23.6
.'2I `7 :? PERC--N7 OF E0UE dCLD    S     ..          53         52.3        '       6i          52.1     S    57.
'O.'S-  2. ?'RCEN-7 or HZuSnIolDs         ..           3./i        5.D                2.9         3.9            3.-
'26T'ES. IC  E2R:EN- OF 8C 6SEHOLS3       ..          12.-,i      14.3                9.9         2:.o          11.C
257>52.0 ,S.33227 900357 NVC0-E
rZfT'L (-SS ?ER 's
1736A3                                    ..            ..          ..             265.6        27C.0
RIS;                                      ..            ..      _39.2              185.1        163.3
E372:tA7! ozo.ATnvs nv"357 100!
'_EV.E' 'U5S ?ER ^AP'-AA)
36135                                     ..            ..   . 70.0                396.3        282.S         552.2
6R0AL                                     ..            ..      280.0              30E.1        268.9         .03.-
ES^:!tD  ?C?'t-7:3D   5ELOWi USOLLr7
?mc9'n..COO   33C5   E'S3ER Li. 7
376334                                    ..            ..        24.0               25.2        20.5             .
RURA                                      ..            ..          .,              '6.6         35 .3.
No: avp.aole
80: gpD ICAD.e. ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    873
a     The a unste: groun  attiagee  fo,mn  .dca:or are 7op'.!.aoon-elgnteo  gectetr-c meaan  txl_.lang tne extrete
'a... a! r:he  .nc:cator an  rhe .ost nom,ia:ea  rwrtrn  In  3ot grout.  -otrage of zcunrre, among roe
:nclca:ar, ucoenos no  ava:2ab20v  or ams-         anod Is not unfor.
<tess orter-tse  oceC, oat.  rotr 1C re:er ro           a   -,.Sear 5orweco   9'39 ancd  9r    or  1C. oe:.o-on  .9t
on:  .9>: and  n:D  Ins: 9ocer.r Es::oa:e, nowee  !97. anc 197,
-:  attnAer;:a .         i eorbcear;  3  .rermc:te  9 2.e Oto., .555.-.) n'-cXD u,C.;t.,   9> -                  ot e7
t_e  -r:-oa    s.'2-25_' nor ta.C a    9 7o           .  ' 9-,C  a-verage;            973        -anor-n.o-: 55:0r-
.:sr.on:s  )r.>      _ .:  aco  3o-^,gc.   "ars.
masr Sect-: _.:0mm:. of 709 ocr Z ;:-         co  .h 9-8.
AugUO',. 



- 23 -                                                                      ANIME I
U71WITOM  OrSOCIA   11MIATORSPage    3   of   5
Notes   Although the data are drse  trot sourcs generally judged the meat authoritative  end reliable, it should ean be anoted6 that they meY cot be  t -trna
Ticoeally comparable because o fthe lack or standar,dined deflinitions acd concepts used by different counttries he collecting the Oats. The data ace, nonethelens,
tc>o   -. deucrll  orders of negoitude, indicate trends, and character,ie certaie maJor differences between countries.
The aouoted troop accrues ~~foe each indicatoc are population-weighted geomtric meanst, secluding the ectrem   vausof the indicator sod the modst populated
ooocts'y  on each 5eocp.  Due to l1ch of date, group   -erges or all3 indicatre  for CapItal Surplus Oil Exporters and of ird.eacocs of Access so ester and Excrete
P-iopocl,  o-slr.g, 1000-  Pdsrbo,tio s"oad Poverty toe otthe  countr  groupo arc ppulatic-seighted geometric means elthout colso                          f the e-trese  -aoes and
the motpplated courtry.   Siee the coVerag  of conties   ons the indcd torsn depends on svailabilihy of data and in not unfor  m.   tice moat be .eserised
is roaoonr  oso  oeodctrt   other.  These   -arerse  are meetly uelasnroiesafioes  of "cetd                                                    hzue ieeeo     _Bron   the vales of one
iniao   t a tine aemoc thefcunr  aod reeec  groups.
LAlNy AREA  thousand nq.h. )                                                                    Moses  o Ro1cretaPDi,snoa  (prcen7         f tpp laton) - tonl. _Urbian. and rural 
Total.  - Total asefar ars. cospeleeg lend area  -an  island eaters.                               obeofPeopl  (totl   ra,adrctlUevdb                              rts dispoa  an 
dgrocFultocsl -  host reent estimate of agricuiltural area used temiporarily                     percentages of their respective populatioss. Eocreta di sposal ai  include
or permanent Y for orspo, pseturee, aarket end hitches gardens or to                          the collection  end dispostal, eith. or  ithoott treatmet, of humo, eirrte
lIe   feiloc..                                                                                and cate-water by  -ster-bh-e  systems or the us  of pie privies and cus.ir
orrPE   AIt S0$) - Oc? per on pita estlsaten at current maket prices,                   Posslatiosvcr,fPbYa40.!P  - Populations di,,ided by estber of practicing physicians,
c.1icoited by sane, rstrsios aetho asWorld Beech Atlen  (1976-78 bass)                          djifl flei9          mdiii &I school at university ie1
1960, 1970, anO 1978 deen.                                             Population ocr Nooniso Person - Population divided by number of prractictiisdiig.d b    main-f prticix  txxl
AlIPO  C TiIePlN PEP COPITA - Annual  -osooption of cocaeclal1 meegy                        an   eaeg adte morass, Practical nurses, ens enoistant nures.
(coal sod121 lTitsin   peele , macoral gas nod hydr--, eucler and geo-                         Poclto   e    optlBd-toes.1 urba,  end roesi - Population  (total, urloc,
threclseo   byPis k-lgreo  of coal equicalest per -apite,; 1.960                       and2 rura       is di t,,d bythir vespeoi_ecshrofhsiabesaalte s
1970, uni ly      abs                                                                           public and private g.erecl and specJiained hostpieal and rehshliitatiOs centeru.
Hospitals srn establishnente permtanently staffed bly at least one physician.
POPULATION AND- VITAL STATMMCir                                                                    Psalenet    rvdin   priccipallys custodiatl care are no nluded. Oura1
~~~~~~~~~~Md              (tli.  - ho of July i; 1.10.0, 1970, end                         hospitale, ho..err, isolude hesith en  medical centers not permnenetiy otaf:vo
907  cae,                                                                                    by.aphys1icia  (hut by a medical assietant, nurs, aidifc,  tet.) which offer
Pao   roLetio  (pecee  of      snil Ptioro  urbiso  to total Dpopistioc;                     is-patient ac edtinad procide a limited range ofmdical faciiitce..
differ-et defic1iesR F.  o-barn eree   ey a~ffect coepara.bility of data                    Adisis   se pOeitni Bed - Total ester of adse.i..i. to, or di-chn-g-  fr..
soog  oatrrnF1IlA, i97t, mod 1975 date.                                                       hpitai  dirided by thr, esthr of hed.
Pnuist ion ?rojeot-rpc
Ponuintioci  Ps  21   Current po,poletion  pro3e.ctissa  are i-ed do                     Hililit
1175 otul  Po,ulsti-. byaend c   and their mertsiity  ad f-rtility                       Average  ihoc of Hoosehoid (ronerr hoseold  - to,tal,  rba, sod crl-2
ramP, fejcto   ;antr  for coctel1ity rnte,e comprise of three                               AIboeoo   osooo  a  roup of bedlcidualsecho aise IlIoc  quartersso
lecolo- acet`In  lif e.rpechancy et birth . onr...cing oith country's                       ther mamn a-.I..  A hoar,der or lodger ma  or esty not to  hocUe.d so the
per capita io-c  iro-i, sod fesosle life  ecoetanoy otthilloing at                          houseboid for snatiot-cl purposes.
77  or.The paranters for fe tiym rete, nb- h-e three ieveln                        orAge,    sItrc   ese   se  rooms -total  ur_-ban,_sodrua- Aoregrstr
acounoog decline  m fortuity  nosorasg to  Income leve  and past             ofpersoen  per roomic l  ubn  anIorlocuied coecet ebl   oln ,
Cani~,ly  lr.iog perf-sro.oe. E-c  country Ic shoe asoged see c-f these                     respeeti-eip.  Neco1isge  eselud deo-prastsutrs    i  0c.-  0-n Ioc
risesci-es      rco  m.rtniity  -c  e,rt3ii?y trscds for  pr t<ireto                     Accs  tcEetiIt    pret of desilice )-  tIosl. urban  enedroe-                            o
)opurp,c.                                                                                   om-tiorcl uwollog   ctheectriity beliin   quacer-a  pnrcrntag
ltatooooe-y  eopoolntco.c. ~~- iso a  ttni, carpy pop.ietio  there is no grooth         talurban, sod ruridelig   respehtelc.I
cisc, en. sloth ran- ~~~~so  eel to toe oc-th rnto, and  liso the age
otot re . remin  contant. This, i0 schihecd oniy afte _fertility rstee           EDUCAfldN
ocoler to iW ricms  le-I of unit set reprodoction cane, ehec                             ACdlooted i            Rolmn    atios
each, eeret   tr- coes -eplace..  itself  -ostly.  The stationary popo-                     Pia.sho-   toa,mlsdtens- Irons total,nlrmcceiecoi
l    nti,c ie z seotned don the hahiE of the- projected ohacrteriotics                      mete           gea  h    rimar  leve  as percentages of restpet-vo primay
of the poulatiac  ic the year 2003, sod tic  retc of decin.e or f-riiiity                     school-age popUslsti-s; normlly inciudes chiidren aced (-ii peer; hu
emtv  o repiecreest lsei.                                                                     adjusted for different i-Esthe of primary education  icr Io -tor  ii,
leer o~tetloosar  co-pultio,n is resohr  - The year uhen stationary population                  uirra  education enroiloes.t sla  eoceed 100 peroest sinc   ns    up'ile
else hso teen reeche,).                                                ar~~~~~~~~e beise L.e nicer the oftsisIj school age.
4500cr lor.oiop                                                      ~~~Seondary seh., I--ttl    aesd femle - Coepuec no cie                0  eoooir
,i. he       i-erppiti.cr soar oioeitce (i00 heotaes.) ofi                                 -dctorq'ire   c  las  f_cu  years of apprsoe  P'ieoiotot..
ccr     k- c.soecius  buno - Cmpoct-  no sh-ce for agricultural medusalof1  to 17 yearn  of age; vorresyo.ndec   _couroro                                                I sic..erll
tu'  coceot  -C -lue    0I-il years), -ournn-ege                Ocetiloa  ecroia cc yeeo  0   oc.sc       O:tco   0.0~i.  ',.s.O
'i7&CjFico,iiiii rctreu  '>5 peroso - ocer) no pees-tagecI ctmid-peerI irs                  Iicl       ..dutial, octher progrsoc wich  operate iodop.... edoIore
"ptpltiaoll; I"e 1, 1470, sod 11477 das                                                         ceetet  o   eo r  int.ttioso.
ceoslor.t  trooh Ot~ih 00-rnct  - total - MAcni. ecsth -atec of to,tn1 mid-                   eoic_ii-eahr  ..cii- - Pr",5'-p  Ind secondary - Total  cusn-to  -esoiJi iT
Year  oPlr tior.-  fo,r I00..), i- ;y, sac 1970-fl.                                             Promary sod secomary 1-.-el  dijoe  by somi ec- of te-chee  Ii. ti    r,-
* .pulstioo uleosth lateps"  ot-c-ec)  - u-a  - icloonl croti rntso of -bis                   epondiwi looMs,
ropuleticec  oe i-ti-c->,ib.2-70, ud i-IL.?'.7                                      Aiii'>  ilt-r    ra1tte   - nre?   -,Lotcrate adolto   cli, to re-c  -o  -cit,, 
rud  bcrth Pat. eto tcoosod           A ..& -- dnil lotie,t.o  per atounso  of  cd-               c  ecnaeo   oal nlt Ppoplatl-c  ges It cerond 000.
yea   cfi-lio  19.1, 1970,so  1007 date.
hO  teeth l:ot-  (,per Li-un    Anoe-t u-a'oo  Por thoo-oecd "0 cI-p-ar                  CONCIf"ihPlN
WMIpti5  eo I'll,  '17', cod 1o??7 tis                                                      55--cgeCoro  (c-  tourocI cspuleo-I.  1,-eIrgospo  etch  :oep-e  ,is 0 o  r
00, -ee o.liicot I,-'00,-r -.     e 00   .10io  , os.si  0 I-re                                -ctieg l-,o tha  i,-iht pe-__oc   roidmaatus.c   thorret a..:liotr,
sp-eoo!.   cort 11ey  -ta,ec.,,sily I 0-y-rc  oro'-oc001lviO,hdi,,oroor    o   >octco.jceto        i  po;                                                     ro.cc       c-
II7,a  tedI17_                                                                                 ...rodoe'to  to'noc  poo ho  p r th.usso  ofP.pbio;eloo.l,Oo.0-
osrily  I. 'i.ajo     Acc. reoro, Areuci (ti.euorsii)l    Acooc-i orse                           ecieo.ioonrs    .   n yean  As  oIte:h0.>rO                              0000    0
o leecooto   0 -ran.. ~ ~         ~          ~          I                  a,.litbed itoessl-.1pr    y.th
eo.i to  bom.  - 1: cs(P-r-to.  .,f  -arie-i s   rc(   Per,,ootao  .0  neried         TV coo ier-  (p-c tsoacp.eii-)-    croc.frics,o.0
i-nl -r-rl000 n   ooooohp, gr-p.                                                      sod ie Year, she-L r-g-t-rti- of TV  css-   cifet
t, el r                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nescnp-r Ci rousco (per ti-cunscd poiatisn) -  hoos  thOo  o,--roo.-o-..ttlI
AN]O DFf2 lTTl-                                                                                                _ f'aiygnral ister-iteopaper ,  efi-dcc.pro.lci.ulvc r
Icc-c o  .0.00:  00-cu: elor i-er CaPita  100-:10  1001'   Indec,f Perocotn              ce-ted Primarilly to.coodI            generni ness.  It to coencdcaii- ',1   doilly 
mosuei er.,aooiioo  -0, cli f,...i  ceecodicoreP. ....Oro,0etiot c-iod-  -ood  -oo  if it uPPe-  at lenot four times  usr..
Ices nOoo .0 -s ocleace peor cools .  T-ooasoitirr 0,0ev  rvinry gc-i:      Cinoo   Accooci Attotodsc, lee Capitiae  ,s -          barer,. 1-  1,0  01......     0-0
00  ie   r  '1 lor:)   bgecc-Iccu-los  . et-  country                 -,, 
or  alii  ornd   , co  0:   00 oi,  0o.~ __ennt  I . C-eputo-d Ice-        10)-F  LO+
o-eeefpo.ocooab.0, - foooo 0 -07 11!o-   -oco,,50   in  r-try Pro Iepita        Tlttd  haocloo  (sico-                 Poos,n-reliy motivre  orze,    los   e
sc-vL ,o     cotttu-i.o   ooj,i.   cci  eroov  a,  iepr               - i          forTes  -od  -oepioycd toe  -c-i-cio  icoric  - o              _oct,co-l-i1.0 .
o,ieeit:t.oO  ore' 00 iced pr  o0'c    -o.h'>:          htlcct-. PequirO-           lal>pct-                emale lotoor Oocoh ca pcre-tago  O to eel la. o fe:--
eret- 5--oimC              'A i    ~I. l,  .,PhYol-IItt  -c do 0-crn-rel                                  -cr'> -         ,ao  force  -n 1erseic, fcc-t.    .hnigc.
ucicp-cdontcoc50o'i   srocoe  to-p~--occ      s-dyeght,                                   foilhec in: pecrectege ci' c-tab  moolr fore
coo sac soc  o.. trust, 5,  0 eccia  0~~-0,sdaiolp 120 por-oct foe            1ou-try ic--otl  -Lab  0-ec  5c, coing, occe-st'r c,cnos-urno  1
oto  to noOocohio-: i-rrccr10ty, oster sd gao a   ercertage ohfCtni nt    rIfre
capct  0c TcrT lp of f" A. I--coySe  ruoplp oot  00  00 dloi-d ccdctihiy rates  rc  ocepote  cc toItal,ml,cd lcl   o                                         ores   -e
abc- -  eq. se-m,,ooo  foe .1 ccao,tebe.  --ccc, lishedby  JliA pVoio-f,  sta of tciti, sas sod foejle ppopuition- 'Iif-:eo.clcio
aoct  ocol  pr I0c     000.L, grss-  cc' ale so soicon  peIesa..                            ossce     Icutuer cfthceplto,sd ootme IrAl                               ro;o
tino  oacosco- co  : co cso  oo..o  , 1 75 ,,-o  :1! totel preteit, sod            aooc   oisiSso
2' 'moo   0 tOoIiolo.e05.. 0010tO- acrcaooo    r thie  sor    peryporo  op PAC  PoecPpednyPtio  -   ocic of popuint..h-                   - urce  1- asl  'o -.o'r 
0110 onto c 1-~( keiciisy  ocho  p0 r iio-oossoo  -Ahctual deihi, pro tho,uoo.:;l  Percentage of Pect   noe(ot.I  cas  end eid       eecoi   sb
o cc' oo,e1-tpe:,i.  Pldee00te:r               0 Otilpobr"t   let-                           prcn,  iset  0  eect,porsty0pecntraichcsct peco
-v  ot-    -. odrce   fe   io   hl o.--oftoeola
p                                                             -t, "cost, "'ItkiW,0~   "Pt    0210
o. 0:   ecooc  . orti  e ne:) - Ac-co;' eunic   s  yo rc oft 1 -                  s'at'    io,it.  ncu   brs - tc    0115 Percenoto -d  ur-ic, it,:ocih-
00 ne  -f ole be r ct, usd00 ii~~t 00d 51 eto .                                          i foeni 
Oaol, C       mo1..   o h.. c0 no, n,d cralcocarenoestr n---o  cc                       kuirsi .ehcic   poetdcoo  ce   0ci-cbdo   ocssorvJ
root- otloo  cop: ly - nc.udrc  torcoec 77uo da,.atc.  A0soentd  u                  pr tnl P-oone  mcf  i  country  leO ac1h  lo       I-c dr  o   0ll  ro.', 00- r-e0ec-
PC;meer    II'.5nouecn   -coodedaSio  aiti   reasonabler
acr       -W 0thto,sc    bcre   r 'etccte                 Ifre  scullI_ implyi
tnoto,e--   Loc - foceedlcc o t1,tic -oOs-  doe nob Pac,etesed s.                                                                        heronoel 0- fth- -ty.  ,1 ,, 0-co abbe'> 2Rio, i 00 "
ccoI e.poIt-! no'>  ;oec      -1 I     rtc   syi   riot,Ingthe trah.ly' 0 p'W,it   d-                           F.tehneh-do      t oceI-h sic   n -iai sod Pr      luchente'
an  -eritery  ,11r)    r,--mV   f  _p,,tiv,prIo,Iat,I-.I,   Latimited"p-latton Bl" Ab'OlltA igesat 1979



-24- A-NEXI
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                           Page 4 of
GROSS NATIIONAl. PRODUCT IN 1978                                  AfNNUAL PATE OF GRO'WT   S,7 constant prices)
US$ Mln.   %                1960-68      1968-74     197L-73
GON  at Market Prices                   4,887.0   100.0               3.7          10.5         5.0
Gross Domestic Investment               1,105.8    22.6               7.1          18.5         4.8
Gross National Saving                     728.5    14.9             -11.5          32.2         9.9
Current Account Balance                  -377.3    -7.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                     825.7    16.9             - 1.2          12.4         4.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                  -1,219.5   -25.0              10.7          10.9        -1.5
OTPLUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY ITI 1977
Value Added           Labor Force         V.A. Per Worker
US$ Man.   R          Mln.      _         US$          ,
Agriculture                               931.2  20.9
Industry                                1,305.0  28.2
Services                                2,427.1  52.0
Unallocated
Total/Average                         4,663.3 100.0
GDVERN1IENT FINCF
General Government              Central Government
(RDn  M1D. ) ar   of GDP        (BRDS.>2n.)     5 of GDP
1978      1978   1977-78        1978       1978   1977-T8
Current Receipts                          667.8      13.4      14.1        591.6      11.8     12.6
Current Expenditure                       482.3       9.6       9.2        416.6       8.3      7.9
Culrrent Surplus                          185.5       3.7       4.9        175.0       3.5      4.7
Capital Expenditures                      337.0 1/  6.7         6.8        294.1 1/  5.9        6.1
Ecternal Assistance (net)                 104.2 -   2.1         1.2        100.7       2.0       1.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978
(Million RD  outstanding end periocd
Money and Quasi Mcney                  275.9   318.6   397.5   494.7   708.8   818.9   851.1   959.3   930.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector           192.2   221.1   260.6   291.5   383.5   425.8   416.0   455.1   513.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector          180.1   216.8   282.1   385.6   577.8   685.0   788.9   8551 -   &85.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Mcney as % of GDP       18.6    18.9    19.6    19.3    23.4    21.1    21.2           2e.6  18.6
General Price Index (1970 = 100) 2/ 100.0   101.2   109.3   114.2   134.3   157.3   161.5             175.6 189.7
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index 2/                    1.4     1.2      8.0     4.5    17.6    17.1       2.7        8.7   8.0
Bank Credit to Public sector            10.5    15.0    17.9    11.9    31.6    11.0    -2.3            0.4  12.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector           18.7    20.4    30.1    36.7    49.8    18.6    15.2            7.9   4.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the official exchange rate of RD$1.00=US$1.)G.
l/ Incl. unallocated expenditure.
2/' GDP deflator.
not available
not appl'icable



- 25 -
AIDNTEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAY!E',TS ALD CAPITAL FLOWS
B.A- A'.^W CF PAYtENTi                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
1976       1977       1978                                        Average 1976-7B
(Millions US $)                                               us$ Million      a
Exports of Gocds, 'FS              840.4    917.9       825.7    Sugar and by-products                   248.6        3L.3
Imrorts of coods,                -1110.4  -1172.4   -121c.    Ferronickel                                 91.5        12.6
Rescurce Oap (cefic. = -)    - 270.0   -254.5    -393.0    Ccffee                                       110.3         15.2
Tobacco                                38.0         5.2
Irnterest ray-lents, r.et          -43.5    -51.1       -71.5    Cocoa                                    74.5        10.3
Otc-er factcr rayr.er.cc-, netl/    -8C.3    -72.3      -41.6    Bauxite                                  20.2         2.8
let zranniers                      151.9    113.6       129.6    All other ccn,odities                   141.0        19.6
Balance o- Current,               -241.9   -264.3    -377.3            Total                             724.1       100.0
Direct  -o-eign :rn"ez-7ert         60.0       45.9       40.0    EXTEIRNAL !BBET, DECEYEEFi 31, 197'ki 3/
Net Public ,TT Forrc,-ing           79.0    104.8        i65.9
Disbursements                   (121.5)  (146.6)   (209.9)                                                US$ Nan
Amortization                    ( 42.5)  ( 41.8)   ( 4L.0)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            764.9
Ot.Fer items n.c..F!                I; .7    1_5.2       76.2        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               N.A.
Increase net in Reserves (+)    -43.2         71.6      -95.2        Total outstanding   Disbursed              N.A.
Gross Reserves (enr year)          165.1    224.8       199.0    DEBT SERVICE PATIO for 1978 I/
Net Reserxves                      -11.L      60.2      -35.0                                                  %
Fuhel and^ Related !"'teriais                                        Public Debt, incl. guaranteel             10.2
Imports                          169.5    177.0       194.2       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 N.A.
Exports                             -           -          -       Total outstanding   Disbursed              rI.A.
RA,TF OF EXCEA:DCE                                     IBRD/IDA LENDING,(Sert. '3. 1979) (Nillion US$):
Through - 1971            Since - 1971                                                                  IBRD        IDA
US $ 1. CD = RD _1.0 eo us $ 1. co = RD $ 1.00
RD S 1.00 = 'J S   1.00   RD $ 1.00 = US $ 1.00                    Outstanding & Disbursed               28.8       17.2
Undisbursed                          49.6         4.9
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        78.0        22.1
1/ Workers rerittances included under net transfers.
2/ Includes privete long-tern capital, other capital, and errors and omissions.
3/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods a-nd non-factor services.
.. not available



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPELATIONS IN THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (As of October 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan or                                                        Amount (Less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower                    Purpose           Bank    IDA      Undisb.
One loan and two credits fully disbursed                            25.0    9.1 1/         -
352 DO        1973   Dominican Republic          Irrigation           -   13.0         4.8
1051 DO        1974   Central Bank                Tourism          21.0       -         11.6
1142 DO        1975   Dominican Republic          Education          8.0                 7.1
1316 DO        1976   Dominican Republic          Highways           5.0                 0.8
1325 DO        1976   Dominican Republic         Population          5.0                 2.4
1655 DO        1979   Dominican Republic          Irrigation       27.0                27.0
1760 DO        1979   State Sugar Council         Sugar            35.0                35.0
Total                                              126.0   22.1
of which has been repaid                          13.0       -
Total now outstanding 2/                           113.0   22.1
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                             -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA I/                  113.0   22.1
Total Undisbursed                                   83.9    4.8         88.7
1/   With exchange adjustment
2/   A US$25 million loan for the Second Puerto Plata Tourism Project,
approved by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1979, was signed on
NTovember 12, 1979.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                    Type of          Amount in US$ Million
Year          Borrower                    Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1974       Cementos Nacionales S.A.    Construction   6.0            1.4      7.4
Material                  -
1978       Financiera Empresarial         Industrial
S.A.                          Credit         3.0         -     3.0
Total Gross Commitments                        9.0       1.4    10.4
Less Repayments                              0.3         -     0.3
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                       8.7       1.4    10.1
Total Undisbursed                              3.0         -      3.0



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Credit 352 DO    Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project; $13.0 million
Credit of January 17, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production by
providing a modern irrigation and drainage system for 23,000 ha and improved
water supply for 4,500 ha already under irrigation. Also included are
implementation of an agrarian reform program and technical assistance.
The project is two and-a-half years behind schedule, partly
because of delays in recruiting consultants, and partly because Contract I
financed by IDB could not be signed until rights of way were obtained, a
condition in IDB's loan agreement. Project costs are estimated at 90 percent
above appraisal estimates. A crucial problem has involved delays in the
Government's decision to carry out the land acquisition and redistribution
program. The Government has submitted a bill to Congress for its approval,
which would permit the executive branch to establish a maximum property size
for each area irrigated by state systems. Additional funds are needed to
extend the contract of the supervision firm beyond 1980, as INDRHI's capability
to execute the supervision of construction is not adequate. IDB has, in
principle, indicated it would provide financing. It is expected that the
proie(t will be further delayed because of damages to the works caused by the
recent hurricanes. Cost estimates of hurricane damages are $1.3 million.
LV s expected that IDB will finance these costs.
Loan 1051 DO      Tourism I Project; $21.0 million loan of November 6, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is designed to provide infrastructure and other faci-
lities for tourism development in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande near Puerto
Plata. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily, although
completion of some project components is likely to be delayed by about one
year. Construction of the first tourist accommodations (golf villas) at Playa
Dorr.da has started. Negotiations with other private investors for a hotel in
Playa Grande and an apartment complex in Playa Dorada are under way. Revised
project costs, including provision for price escalation and land acquisition,
amount to $39 million compared to $36 million estimated at appraisal.
/1   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the actions being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses of projects in execution.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Loan 1142-DO      Second Education Project; $8.0 million loan of July 17, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project finances the construction, furnishing and equipping
of 204 rural community learning centers; 4 agricultural training centers,
3 vocational training centers; equipping of 14 secondary schools, and of
4 vocational training centers; a text book feasibility study, and training.
The project is over two years behind schedule. Construction of vocational
schools is delayed. However, Congress has recently approved legislation
which will permit execution of this component. Construction of primary rural
schools is underway. Acquisition of equipment for secondary schools was
delayed by procurement problems which have now been resolved. The agricultural
training centers have almost been completed.
Loan 1316-DO      Highway Maintenance and Reconstruction; $5.0 million
Loan of August 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project provides a highway maintenance program; reconstruction
of a 19 Km. road and technical assistance. Technical assistance is being
provided satisfactorily for the nationwide maintenance program. Purchase
of 95 percent of the maintenance equipment has been made. Works on the
reconstruction of the Puente Rio Camu-San Francisco de Macoris road are now
proceeding satisfactorily, with a 15 month delay. The project is expected
to be completed in early 1980.
Loan 1325-DO      Population and Family Health; $5.0 million loan of
September 16, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project provides for the construction of rural health clinics
and one health sub-center in Regions I and II, communications and teaching
equipment, vehicles and operating costs for community based contraception
programs, and technical assistance. Construction of the health sub-center
and ten rural clinics has been completed. Construction of the remaLning 16
clinics is underway. Fellowships for nursing students are being provided.
The first group of medical students has been sent to rural areas for two-month
periods of practice. However, the community-based health family program is
progressing slowly. The progran was to include the definition of the levels
of medical attention in rural areas, training of the Secretariat of Health
personnel, and preparation of a health manual, plus improvements in the data
system. Hurricane damage to the project has been limited to damage to
rural clinics caused by refugees. It is expected that the additional
expenditures resulting from these damages will be financed out of the proceeds
of the loan.
Loan 1655-DO      Nizao Irrigation Project:  $27.0 million loan of
February 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The terminal date of effectiveness has been extended to December 5,
1979 to permit the Government additional time to fulfill conditions of loan
effectiveness. The Bank would agree to reconstruction of 2 km. of the
Marcos A. Cabral Canal, damaged by the hurricanes, under abbreviated
bidding procedures.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1699-DO       Second Puerto Plata Tourism Development Project:  $25 million
loan of November 12, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The loan was signed on November 12, 1979 and is not yet
effective.
Loan 1760-DO       Sugar Rehabilitation Project: $35 million loan of October 26, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan was signed on October 26, 1979 and is not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I    -    Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  First presentation to Bank:        December, 1977
(b) First Bank Mission to Identify
the project:                     Janaury 16, 1978
(c)  Agency which prepared project:   Secretaria de Estado de Obras
Publicas Y Comunicaciones (SEOPC)
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                 May 28, 1979
(f)  Completion of negotiations:        November 21, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:   March 15, 1980
Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None
III  -    Special Conditions of the Loan and Proiect Agreements:
(a)  SEOPC would prepare a study and enact vehicle axle-load and dimension
regulations in accordance to a timetable agreed with the Bank (Para.57)
(b)  the government would, provide adequate funds for its 1980-1989
maintenance and reconstruction program through its budget,
and would exchange views with the Bank at the time of prepara-
tion of the annual maintenance and reconstruction budgets
(para. 52);
(c) the Government would starting in 1980, adopt a budgeting
system with separate provision for maintenance activities;
and, release funds in accordance with the budget work
programs (para 58);
(d) the Reconstruction Planning Unit would be established by
June 30, 1980 and fully staffed by December 31, 1980. It
would be adequately funded and equipped to carry out its
task (para 56);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Government would adopt adequate procedures by June 30, 1981
to continually monitor the availability and utilization of
its equipment fleet (para 58);
(f) Government would contract technical assistance no later than
March 31, 1980;review the requirements for technical assistance
for maintenance by December 31, 1980 after consultation with
the Bank (para 58);
(g) Government would establish and equip the Production Training
Unit, provide adequate funds for its operation; and cause SEOPC to
arrange for the recruitment of Dominican trainers following the
beginning of technical assistance services (paras 59, 60);
(h) SEOPC would establish a Department of Labor-Based Construction
in its Directorate of Rural Roads to execute the pilot
project with assistance from specialized external consultants
(para 62);
(i) the number and qualifications of SEOPC staff directly responsible
for the implementation of various project components, and the
coordination among these units would be reviewed from time to
time (para 67); and
(j) employment of consultants for supervision would be a condition for
disbursement for reconstruction works (para 55).



IBldD 14492R
nv b X t >; Xi B D E f - i+,": Q Q 50 t 0 F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LCSoo                                                                                                            NOVEtM5ER 1979l
: <;  ;  52;t \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~~~w^ - ssso ': \~~~~~~~~~~~~ElA                                                                                         Al/on te Oceon
G,/f  'fMe--co            "Ph...
c.                                                                                   DOMINICAN
CURA...        REPUBLIC
RI                                                                                                                                                      GUAT MA Ot-4      ~       CTobeao  SL-1
|- 5 ~~~~~~A     NJUA    ON                             AOge                                                               9<M AR   E R _I,Asdr 
Pcfc COSTA RICA 
B ,OAguosNeg\c>. ,,_,-J AGSH R.               ;SALCED9    TRINIDA                                                                                                 L CLLMSI D
IV ,,o         I  SAN  Ggg  ;::;                                  S           q             :        ;;;    FTD  EMEts9E.ICY SROAD RECEStRUCTIbI PRt:*SE
-t80             So,ERNAtEst   J\|  6   a_   8 A R A H O N :SSi  t Y   }  5                                    Rowd sctirtes to be RRaonstructe d rce
t~ ~~~~~~~,~ d. Cob                                S /-Ar5  N T I:  AG 0                                              ARTE:I                               olro    5at   w
cIl S.It         \C o' t/:cbo  de La M   a,E                     :                 O    2      0    4l    0*                                Ar
2 ~~~~~~~\ \         7    <e                                                                    :           5             1  ; :  I 13r1TR   ,vr Wr#S Atf "ihf
-lq  C.,-C, d. Y.9-             El R,       N        \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  AMIREZ  -j -                                                                  19--~~~~~~~~~T.~,.R..teny. .4R~ R
6 . E                                               G A             tk , C9 2   i   '   i2 \:i               - -  -    P ro v i nc ic s   B o u n d or iRf                                  .Ibr.O.d.
J ~ ~~~~~~~~          AN    J U A            
: p:   Ur   r 5G;  '  S                                          ;                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. -    Internationol1 Boundariees             e.A    n.pnd,
S,.".AE rb    A. e,  e
72                                                                                                                              700;                                                           690                              m y:  X   C 00:   trl  t  z  :   n   21>'  t,9  = llctL.Sc, ,



