LOAN NUMBER 1784 DO
DOC.:T:
Loan Agreement
(Second Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        f)/J                    , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1784 DO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      (                     , 1980, between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (hereina er called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SEOPC" means the Secretarla de Estado de Obras
P6blicas y Comunicaciones of the Borrower;
(b) "DGC" means the Direcci6n General de Carreteras
of SEOPC;
(c) "DGCV" means the Direcci6n General de Caminos "eci-
nales of SEOPC;
(d) "DGPP" means the Direcci6n General de Programaci6n Y
Proyectos of SEOPC;
(e) "UEPI" means Unidad Ejecutora del Programa de Mano de
Obra Intensiva to be established within DGCV in accordance with
Section 3.13 of this Agreement;
(f) "First Project" means the Road Maintenance and Recon-
struction Project financed by the Loan Agreement for Loan Number
1316 T-DO between the Bank and the Borrower dated August 10,
1976;


﻿-2-
(g) "Five-Year Highway Maintenance Program" means SEOPC's
national highway maintenance program for the 1980-1984 period;
(h) "Highway Reconstruction Program" means SEOPC's highway
reconstruction program for the 1980-1989 period;
(i) "Training Program" means SEOPC's program for training
highway maintenance personnel for the 1981-1984 period;
(j) "Pilot Rural Roads Program" means SEOPC's pilot rural
roads program employing labor-based techniques for the 1.980-1982
period;
(k) "Reconstruction Planning Unit" means the unit within
DGPP referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement; and
(1) "Production Training Unit" means the unit referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in.Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
through SEOPC, as the executing agency, with DGC to execute Parts
A (1) and (2) and B (1), (2) and (3) of the Project, DGPP to
execute Parts A (3) and (4) of the Project, and DGCV through UEPI
to execute Part C of the Project, with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, administra-
tive and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction on its obligations
under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall provide in its
annual budget and make available promptly as needed funds to
cover:
(i) the local currency cost requirements of the Project
estimated to be the equivalent of $14,000,000;
and
(ii) recurrent expenditures for the Five-Year Highway
Maintenance Program.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose


﻿-4-
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, as follows:
(a) with respect to Part A (2) of the Project, international
engineering consultants to supervise and coordinate the execution
of Part A (1) of the Project;
(b) with respect to Part A (3) of the Project, highway
engineering consultants for the design of additional road recon-
struction works;
(c) with respect to Part A (4) of the Project, international
consultants, including a senior highway engineer and a transport
economist, to provide the necessary technical assistance to
the Reconstruction Planning Unit;
(d) with respect to Part B (2) and (3) of the Project,
consultants to provide the necessary technical assistance for the
Five-Year Highway Maintenance Program and for the Training Pro-
gram; and
(e) with respect to Part C (3) of the Project, consultants
to provide technical assistance on labor-based techniques for the
Pilot Rural Roads Program and related institutional improvements.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) enter into a contract,
the terms and conditions of which shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, to take effect not later than March 31, 1980, for the ser-
vices of the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (d) of this
Agreement, with respect to Part B (2) and (3) of the Project; and
(b) cause DGC to review, not later than December 31, 1980, in
consultation with the Bank, the technical assistance requirements
under Part B (2) of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause SEOPC:
(a) to establish, and maintain adequately staffed there-
after, the Production Training Unit to carry out the Training
Program and provide, promptly as needed, the necessary facilities,
funds, equipment and other resources as shall be required for the
efficient operation thereof; and
(b) to employ, contemporaneously with the initiation of
technical assistance services under Part B (3) of the Project,
local instructors, whose qualifications, experience and terms and


﻿-5-
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to
work for approximately twelve months with the consultants referred
to in Section 3.02 (d) of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) adopt, starting in the 1980 fiscal year, a budgeting
system under which: (i) the highway maintenance budget shall be
separate from other SEOPC activities; and (ii) the maintenance
budget shall contain specific allocations for individual compo-
nents, including, inter alia, labor, materials, equipment, fuel,
administration and contracts for periodic maintenance; and
(b) release, starting in the 1980 fiscal year, funds in
accordance with the work programs in the budget.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) provide adequate funds, through its budget. for the
carrying out of the Five-Year Highway Maintenance Fogram; and
(b) exchange views with the Bank each year at the time
of preparation of such budget on the funding and carrying out
thereof.
Section 3.07. In carrying out the road reconstruction items
of the Highway Reconstruction Program not included in the Project,
the Borrower shall give priority to such items over other highway
capital expenditures not included in such Program.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) cause all national
roads of the Borrower to be adequately maintained and cause
all necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices; (ii) cause all road maintenance
equipment and workshops of SEOPC to be adequately maintained and
cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all
in accordance with appropriate engineering practices; (iii)
carry out the Five-Year Highway Maintenance Program in accordance
with the Final Report on Planning for Highway Maintenance and
Rehabilitation dated January 1979 and prepare and adopt an annual
maintenance plan based on the recommendations contained in such
Report; and (iv) cause SEOPC to review with the Bank, not later
than December 31, 1981, the coordination of its maintenance
activities and secondary and rural road construction activities to
ensure adequate equipment management and maintenance.


﻿-6-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, from time to time, review,
jointly with the B1ank, the arrangements adopted by SEOPC, the
carrying out of the Project, including the staffing of, and the
coordination among the administrative subdivisions of SEOPC
involved in the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish, not later than June 30, 1980 and maintain
thereafter, the Reconstruction Planning Unit within DGPP, to plan,
program and study the economic and technical feasibility of
projects for the Highway Reconstruction Program;
(b) appoint, not later than December 31, 1980, the staff
for the Reconstruction Planning Unit, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank; and
(c) without limiting the generality of the provisions
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, provide, or cause. to be pro-
vided, the Reconstruction Planning Unit, promptly as needed, with
the facilities, funds, equipment and other resources as shall be
required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause SEOPC:
(a) to monitor, on a continuing basis, and make an annual
assessment of, on the basis of targets agreed with the Bank,
the availability and utilization of its equip.ment fleet;
(b) to adopt, not later than June 30, 1981, adequate proce-
dures for the systematic renewal, overhaul and scrapping of
its equipment fleet; and
(c) to review, at the time of the annual maintenance review,
jointLy with the Bank, the renewal, overhaul and scrapping
plan for the following calendar year.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall prepare a study on and shall
thereafter enact, on the timetable agreed with the Bank, appro-
priate vehicle axle-load and dimension regulations.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall establish, not later than
June 30, 1980 and maintain thereafter with an adequate staff, a
labor-based construction unit within DGCV to carry out the Pilot


﻿-7-
Rural Roads Program and provide, promptly as needed, the necessary
facilities, funds, equipment and other resources as shall be
required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.14. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause the equipment and spare parts
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be purchased on the
basis of the acquisition list and procurement schedule agreed to
with the Bank.
Section 3.15. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-8-
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at
no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptlyV and at no cost to the Bank, secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,


﻿-9-
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the acc' unt or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records, including separate accounts for the Project,
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expendi-
tures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall have: (i) the accounts
referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent audit(cs acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
referred to in (i) above and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses,
foreign exchange permits and all other approvals required under
the laws of the Borrower, to ensure the timely procurement of the
goods and services required for the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date           85~t 19j          is hereby
specified for the purpose of SL!rtion 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretario de Estado de Obras PG'blicas y
Comunicaciones of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretarla de Estado de Obras
PGblicas y Comunicaciones
Ave. San Crist6bal, Ensanche la Fe
Santo Domingo, D.N.
Dominican Republic
Cable address:
Secretarfa de Obras
PGiblicas y Comunicaciones
Santo Domingo, D.N.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused


﻿- 11 -
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Santo
Domingo, DN, Dominican Republic, and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin erica and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation
of amounts of the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works under             15,000,000        63%
Parts A (1) and
C (1) of the Project
and training facilities
under Part B (3) of the
Project
(2) Equiement, spare
parts and workshop
tools:
(a) Under Part B              9,650,000
(2) (d)
(b) Under Part B                550,000
(3) (c)
(c) Under Part C (4)            450,000
(i) directly                              100% of foreign
imported                             expenditures
(ii) imported and
procured locally                     95%
(3) Consultants' services          1,700,000        63%
under Parts A (2) and
A (3) of the Project
(4) Consultants' services          1,400,000        80%
under Parts A (4),
B (2), B (3) and C
(3) of the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Per diem of SEOPC               500,000        100%
trainees under Part
B (3) of the Project
(6) Unallocated                   5,750,000
TOTAL              35,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b) payments for expenditures under Category (1) for civil
works under Part A (1) of the Project until the Borrower has
furnished to the Bank evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the
employment of the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project includes the Five-Year Highway Maintenance
Program and includes part of the Highway Reconstruction Program.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Road Reconstruction
(1) Reconstruction of about 150 kilometers of roads under
the Highway Reconstruction Program for the 1980-1982
neriod.
(2) Provision of about 264 man-months of construction
supervision and related technical assistance for the
reconstruction works.
(3) Detailed engineering design for the reconstruction of
about 317 kilometers of additional roads under the
Highway Reconstruction Program.
(4) Establishment within DGPP of the Reconstruction Planning
Unit for the purpose of planning, programming and
studying the economic feasibility of projects for the
Highway Reconstruction Program and provision of about 15
man-months of technical assistance for such purpose.
Part B:   Maintenance and Training Program
(1) Carrying out of the Five-Year Highway Maintenance
Program.
(2) Strengthening of SEOPC's maintenance capacity by the
adoption, with the provision of about 46 man-months of
technical assistance, of measures for:
(a) the consolidation of systems for equipment manage-
ment and accounting and for overall maintenance;
(b) planning for the inclusion of the feeder roads
network into the overall maintenance management
system;
(c) ensuring that the 18 workshops are in full operat-
ing condition;


﻿- 16 -
(d) the selection and procurement of about 200 units of
equipment, spare parts therefor and spare parts to
establish basic stocks for preventive maintenance
and to overhaul existing equipment;
(e) putting   into  effect improved administrative
procedures;
(f) developing an overall personnel management system;
and
(g) rehabilitation of about 50 units of equipment.
(3) Carrying out, with the provision of technical assis-
tance, of the Training Program, including:
(a) the establishment and operation of the Produc-
tion Training Unit;
(b) the strengthening of SEOPC's training unit;
(c) the purchase of training equipment and materials;
(d) the organization of workshops; and
(e) the overseas training of senior maintenance
engineers.
Part C:   Pilot Rural Roads Program
(1) Carrying out of the pilot program for the 1980-1982
period for the construction of about 200 kilometers of
rural roads utilizing labor-based techniques and employ-
ing for the purpose labor force available and to be
contracted in the rural areas where the roads will be
located.
(2) The adoption of related institutional improvements,
including the development of planning and administrative
procedures and a staff training program.
(3) The provision of technical assistance for such purposes.


﻿- 17 -
(4) The acquisition and utilization of the equipment re-
quired to supplement the labor-based techniques for
purposes of (1) above.
Parts A and C of the Project are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1982 and Part B of the Project is expected to
be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1984
through   September 1, 1996                 1,345,000
On March 1, 1997                                 1,375,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.15%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.00%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.95%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary Information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (a) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (b) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales or similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
4.   (a) With respect to any contract for civil works to be
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
contractors shall be required to prequalify.


﻿- 21 -
(b) For bidding purposes, civil works under Part A of
the Project shall be divided into five lots in a manner acceptable
to the Bank.
(c) For bidding purposes, goods to be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 above, shall be divided into
lots, to the extent practicable, in such manner as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank, prior to issuing the invitation
to bid.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods with an estimated cost of less than
the equivalent of $50,000, up to a maximum aggregate amount of
the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Notwithstanding the above, contracts for the purchase of
spare parts for existing equipment with an estimated cost of less
than the equivalent of $50,000, up to a maximum aggregate amount
of the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured directly from
established dealers in accordance with local procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
3.   Bidding documents and model contracts for the contracts
referred to in 1 and 2 above shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:


﻿- 22 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bis were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 23 -
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works under Part C of the Project may be carried
out by the Borrower by force account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        - day of       , 1932_
FOR SECRETARY


