                                  Document of
                               The World Bank

                                   DRAFT




                                                     Report No: ICR0000831




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (TF-57623 TF-90001)

                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.64 MILLION

                                      TO

           COOPERATIVE HOUSING FOUNDATION INTERNATIONAL
              INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR MIGRATION

                                    FOR A

              YOGYAKARTA AND CENTRAL JAVA EARTHQUAKE
                           ROOF STRUCTURE PROJECT

                                 June 30, 2008




Urban Development Sector Unit
Indonesia
East Asia and Pacific Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective October 19, 2006)

                      Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
                                  1.00 = US$ 0.109
                              US$ 1.00 = IDR 9,109

                                   FISCAL YEAR

                             January 1 ­ December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB          Asian Development Bank
BKM          Local Board of Trustees
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CHF          Cooperative Housing Foundation (CHF) International
CSRRP        Community-based Settlement Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project
DIY          Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta (Yogyakarta Special Administrative Region)
ERC          Early Recovery Cluster
FY           Fiscal Year
GoI          Government of Indonesia
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          Implementation Status and Completion Report
IOM          International Organization for Migration
JRF          Java Reconstruction Fund
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDLAR        Preliminary Damage and Loss Assessment Report
PDO          Project Development Objective
RSK          Roof Structure Kits
RSP          Roof Structure Project
RSU          Roof Structure Unit
RT           Rukun Tetangga (Community Leader)
SA           Special Account
SCG          Shelter Cluster Group
TF           Technical Facilitators
TS           Transitional Shelter (T-Shelter)
UGM          Universitas Gadjah Mada (Gadjah Mada University)
UPP          Urban Poverty Project


     Vice President: James W. Adams
   Country Director: Joachim von Amsberg
    Sector Manager: Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader: Indira Dharmapatni
  ICR Team Leader: Indira Dharmapatni

                                            INDONESIA
         Yogyakarta and Central Java Earthquake Roof Structure Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 14
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes....... 22
 Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 23
 Annex 5. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 26
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Yogyakarta and Central
Country:                Indonesia              Project Name:         Java Earthquake Roof
                                                                     Structure Project
Project ID:             P104357                L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-57623,TF-90001
ICR Date:               07/11/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     ERL                    Grantee:              CHF AND IOM
Original Total
                        USD 6.6M               Disbursed Amount:     USD 2.3M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: U
Implementing Agencies:
International Organization for Migration (IOM)
Cooperative Housing Foundation (CHF) International
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:                       Effectiveness:
Appraisal:                            Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/22/2006     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:             08/31/2007         08/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:          Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Housing construction                                          100              100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                          Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:          James M. Adams                    James M. Adams
Country Director:         Joachim von Amsberg              Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:          Sonia Hammam                     Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:      Indira Dharmapatni               Indira Dharmapatni
ICR Team Leader:          Indira Dharmapatni
ICR Primary Author:       Indira Dharmapatni



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective was to respond to the most basic needs of the
households affected by the earthquake through the provision of roof structures that
transition to permanent housing.

  Achievement of the PDO:
  Although the numerical target was not achieved as planned, the Project was able to
cover all of the remaining needs of roof-structure. The Project was carefully designed to
anticipate the need and rapid changes on the ground to ensure that all of the affected
people are provided by shelters prior to the construction of permanent houses. As planned
in the project design, the team conducted a mid-term review (MTR) three months after
the Project commencement and adjusted the target needs according to the situation,


                                             ii

whereby government permanent house reconstruction program was implemented
successfully. The project scale was then significantly reduced from a total initial target of
24,000 units to 6,141 units. Towards the closing date, the needs of roof structures
depleted further as a result of rapid government permanent house reconstruction. The
provision of the roof structures was racing with the provision of the permanent houses. It
should be noted that the implementation of the permanent houses reconstruction in Yogya
was unprecedented in terms of speed and coverage. Over 150,000 houses were completed
within one year. Thus, eliminate the needs of the roof structures.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not available

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Percentage of beneficiaries households' (man/women) satisfaction on ability to
                resume the normal households activities
                                                                               IOM (DIY, male:
                                                                               96.77%, female
                                                                               94.74%; Central

Value                                                                          Java, male: 92.86%,

quantitative or 0                         80% (MTR and by                      female: 100%).

Qualitative)                              project closing)                     CHF (DIY, male:
                                                                               93.94%, female:
                                                                               100%; Central
                                                                               Java, male: 97.14%,
                                                                               female: 100%)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  02/28/2007                           08/31/2007

Comments        By MTR (March 2007) the target values achieved were as follows: IOM (DIY +

(incl. %        CJ: male 88.24%, female 87%); CHF (DIY+CJ: male 93.65%, female 94.17%);

achievement)    Both at the MTR and project closing, the target achievements are higher than the
                target indicators.

Indicator 2 :   Percentage of beneficiaries of roof structure units (RSUs) that transition to
                permanent houses
                                                                               IOM (DIY: 52%,

Value                                                                          Central

quantitative or 0                         60% (MTR), 80%                       Java:24.3%); CHF

Qualitative)                              (project closing)                    (DIY: 80.6%,
                                                                               Central Java:
                                                                               46.6%)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                  02/28/2007                           08/31/2007

Comments        By MTR (March 2007),target achieved were: IOM (DIY: 37.5%, Central Java:

(incl. %        50.9%); CHF (DIY: 39.4%, Central Java: 42.9%). Values at MTR & closing are

achievement)    lower than the intended target due to the rapid realization of gov't permanent
                housing program



                                                iii

Indicator 3 :   Percentage of beneficiaries of roof structures that reuse their materials in
                permanent house
                                                                                IOM (DIY: 26%,

Value                                                                           Central

quantitative or 0                          60% (MTR), 80%                       Java:40.54%); CHF

Qualitative)                               (project closing)                    (DIY, 10.19%,
                                                                                Central Java:
                                                                                3.45%)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   02/28/2007                           08/31/2007

Comments        By MTR (March 2007),target achieved were: IOM (DIY: 21.8%, Central Java:

(incl. %        35.3%); CHF (DIY: 24.3%, Central Java: 20.7%). Target at MTR & closing are

achievement)    < than the intended target due to most beneficiaries have permanent houses &
                only rooftiles can be reused

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Number of prefabricated roof structures kits (RSKs) produced that meet
                satisfactory basic technical quality (cumulative)
Value                                                                           4886 (79.56% of
(quantitative   0                          24000               6141             revised target
or Qualitative)                                                                 values)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   08/31/2007          08/31/2007       08/31/2007

Comments        At the MTR, a survey estimated that remaining needs of Roof Structure Units

(incl. %        (RSUs) were 3,500 units. The project scale was reduced to 6141 units. Rapid

achievement)    implementation of Gov't permanent housing progr. has further reduced the RSKs
                needs.

Indicator 2 :   Number of RSKs delivered to eligible beneficiaries that meet satisfactory basic
                technical quality
Value                                                                           4790 (78% of
(quantitative   0                           24000              6141             revised target
or Qualitative)                                                                 values)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   08/31/2007          08/31/2007       08/31/2007
Comments        Rapid implementation of Gov't permanent housing progr. has reduced the project
(incl. %        scale to 6141 RSKs. In the field, the geographical distribution of the
achievement)    beneficiaries are more spread & in smaller groups.

Indicator 3 :   Number of Roof Structure Units (RSUs) constructed that conform to pre-agreed
                specification (cumulative)

Value                                                          6141 (IOM:       4434 ( 72.22% of
(quantitative   0                          24000               974 and CHF:     revised target
or Qualitative)                                                1667, plus
                                                               3500)            values)

Date achieved 12/31/2006                   08/31/2007          08/31/2007       08/31/2007
Comments        Since May 2007, CHF&IOM could no longer found beneficiaries due to rapid
(incl. %        decreasing needs. Materials equivalent to 150 & 141 RSUs of CHF and IOM,



                                                iv

achievement) respectively, were distributed to eligible beneficiaries thru UPP-Housing.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived               DO                           IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                             v

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1.    Context at Appraisal


1.      Background: On May 27, 2006, an earthquake registering 6.3 on the Richter scale
damaged surrounding areas of Yogyakarta and Central Java (the "Affected Areas"). While a
significant number of houses were destroyed or damaged by the earthquake; societal coping
mechanisms were also severely disrupted, with widespread trauma and means of earning a
living buried in the rubble. The scale of the physical destruction caused by the disaster was
belied by the relatively low death toll, owing to a traditional building culture that was
complacent about earthquake risk. Masonry walls made of burnt bricks connected with weak
mortar ­ a reality exacerbated by unwitting negligence and poverty ­ were no match for the
strong earthquake.      In addition, a lack of adequate anchoring, poor workmanship, and
minimal compliance with building codes all contributed to the extent of the damage.

2.      In the immediate aftermath of the earthquake, in response to a request from the
Government of Indonesia ("GoI") for housing assistance and in cooperation with
government, local and international stakeholders, various organizations, individuals and
community groups distributed emergency shelter materials (e.g. tarpaulins, mattresses,
blankets and other emergency-shelter non-food items). While close to 100% of the needs for
immediate emergency shelter were covered at the time of project preparation, emergency
tents and tarpaulins would not provide adequate shelter to cover transitional needs through
the anticipated two to three years required for preliminary reconstruction. Many families
were thought to be likely to wait much longer for the completion of permanent housing built
to earthquake-resistant standards. In the meantime, although some families may have had the
resources to recover on their own and others may have received assistance from government,
civil society or the humanitarian community, poverty and insufficient resources highlighted
the need for transitional shelter support. The lack of adequate housing also impacted the
capacity of people to resume their livelihoods. A large percentage of the affected population
was and remains engaged in small home-based industries. Hence, in the absence of durable
shelter, these communities would not be able to resume their previous economic activities.
Finally, the lack of adequate housing causes severe health problems, most of which worsen
during the rainy season, imminent at the time of project preparation.

3.      GoI is presently focusing all available resources on providing permanent houses to
affected households, while the NGOs working under the coordination of the United Nations
Early Recovery Cluster ("ERC") are focusing on meeting immediate needs for housing in the
form of "Roof Structures". A typical Roof Structure is a wind and weather-proof bamboo
structure with a tile roof, assembled on the existing concrete foundation of the original
collapsed house where possible, and is considered durable in that it is built to last for a
minimum of two years while permanent houses are being constructed. All Roof Structures
should be built to SPHERE standards1. Some key features of Roof Structures are that: (i)
they do not endanger a family's entitlement for permanent housing assistance under the
broader GoI shelter response to the disaster; (ii) almost all components used in the



1For further detail on Roof Structures, refer to Annex 5: Technical Annex of the two Project Appraisal
Documents attached as listed in Annex 6.




                                                     1

construction can be reused in the construction of the permanent house; and (iii) no permits or
authorizations are required for construction.

4.      Preliminary estimate of damage and response: In June 2006, weeks after the
earthquake, BAPPENAS, the provincial and local governments of the Affected Areas and a
team of international partners led by the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) produced the Preliminary Damage and Loss Assessment Report ("PDLAR"). The
PDLAR showed that over 300,000 homes were either totally destroyed or heavily damaged;
with an average family size of 4.3, approximately 1.3 million people were rendered homeless
by the earthquake.

5.      Assessments conducted by the key members of the ERC at the time of project
preparation showed that 93,000 families were living with other families, were in shelters with
a roof height below two meters, or were in shelters that would otherwise not provide
sufficient shelter from the rainy season. At the time of preparation, overall commitments
from various agencies providing Roof Structures amounted to approximately 50,000 ­
showing a gap of approximately 47,300 shelters (including a 10% contingency).

6.      Project Rationale: The Activity Initiation Summary for the Yogyakarta and Central
Java Earthquake Roof Structure Project ("RSP") was signed off in August 2007 and, as it was
an emergency operation, was able to reach effectiveness by December 2007. GoI had
released its Action Plan for rehabilitation and reconstruction for the Affected Areas and had
committed US$270 million over the period of 2006-2007 for the reconstruction of permanent
houses. One of the objectives of the multidonor Java Reconstruction Fund is to respond to
the basic needs of the households affected by the earthquake, notably in terms of housing.

7.      While GoI had just begun distributing the first phases of cash grants to start the
process of permanent reconstruction, this resource could not have been mobilized in time to
mitigate the potentially devastating effects of the rainy season upon settlement conditions in
the Affected Areas. The Provincial Governments of the Affected areas together with the
ERC developed a joint and complementary strategy aimed at accelerating the process of
reconstruction to address the need for housing, whilst adhering to the plan for permanent
housing reconstruction established by GoI.

1.2.    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators


8.      The project development objective was to respond to the most basic needs of the
households affected by the earthquake through the provision of roof structures that transition
to permanent housing.

9.      The key outcome indicators for the project were as follows:
    · Beneficiaries households' (men/women) satisfaction on ability to resume their
        normal household activities, e.g. children can study, family member/s can conduct
        informal economic activities, protected from rain and adverse weather conditions.
    · Percentage of beneficiaries of roof structures that transition to permanent houses.
    · Percentage of beneficiaries of roof structures that reuse their materials in
        permanent house.


                                               2

1.3.    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
        and reasons/justification


10.     While Intermediate and Output results were revised downwards to reflect changing
circumstances on the ground (detailed in section 7), the Key Outcome Indicators and their
targets remained unchanged.

1.4.    Main Beneficiaries


11.     The RSP was designed to provide approximately 24,000 temporarily homeless
families in targeted villages in the Affected Areas with safe and durable housing through the
provision of Roof Structures while their permanent house was being rebuilt.

1.5.    Original Components (as approved)


The project components varied slightly between the Implementing Agencies. IOM had been
operating a Roof Structure mass-production facility in the Affected Areas for some time
when the RSP began implementation, while CHF established their facility specifically for the
RSP. All components listed below applied to CHF, while components (ii) through (v)
applied to IOM.

        (i)     Set-up of the prefabrication facility. CHF was to set up a fabrication facility
        and subcontract five prefabrication teams of 15 people to operate for one shift per day
        producing 110 Shelter Structure Kits per day; or 660 kits per week, (based on a 6-day
        production week). Workers were specialized according to the different aspects of the
        production to optimize speed and quality of construction.

        (ii)    Preparation of Roof Structure Kits (RSK).          This component involved
        prefabrication of the most labor intensive and structurally crucial elements of the
        building including: roof trusses, columns, tarpaulins for the roof, bracing and pre-
        cutting of wall components. Further, roofing elements (the frame that held the roof-
        tiles) were precut to facilitate transportation of materials and improve on-site
        construction efficiency. Pre-fabrication was also utilised in enhance quality control
        procedures, which can be more easily implemented at a pre-fabrication stage.

        (iii)   Targeting and distribution of kits to beneficiaries.       The Implementing
        Agencies undertook selection of end-users/beneficiaries according with the following
        procedures:
                a) Site identification. Using the SCG database, outreach staff identified
                locations with heavy damage that were not receiving any assistance from
                other organizations. This information was to be reviewed and crosschecked
                with various other sources including local government. Both Implementing
                Agencies aimed for full coverage in each targeted village. Once an area is
                selected, CHF's outreach staff met with community leaders (RTs) to
                introduce the program. IOM socialized the program with community leaders
                and the community at large, in addition to conducting a rapid assessment. In
                addition, IOM's Community Assessment Teams carried out a rapid



                                              3

               assessment plan.
               b) Finalization of beneficiaries list and raising awareness. In consultation
               with the community leaders, the Implementing Agencies established a list of
               eligible households, based upon a set of standard eligibility criteria agreed
               upon with the World Bank. Potential beneficiaries were then to be surveyed
               by a team of student volunteers under the supervision and guidance of
               Implementing Agency field staff to verify eligibility for assistance.
               Following the volunteer assessment, the beneficiary lists were to be vetted
               with the entire community via community-wide meetings.
               c) Ex-post distribution/monitoring. After delivery of RSKs, CHF provided
               technical support to ensure the quality of RSKs delivered, and conducted
               technical audit of approximately 30% of beneficiaries to verify structural
               quality.    Meanwhile, IOM conducted beneficiary follow-up with all
               beneficiaries of RSK's. The follow-up included two components: firstly, a
               technical quality control inspection, in which any defects, maintenance, etc.
               was conducted on the spot. Secondly, an assessment of beneficiary
               satisfaction and survey of shelter function and material usage for permanent
               shelters.

       (iv)    Assistance to beneficiaries during construction. In the field, the
       Implementing Agencies oversaw and provided technical guidance for the
       construction of Roof Structures, in cooperation with volunteer students from local
       universities, mainly the Department of Architecture, and Civil Engineering of the
       Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) and skilled construction workers who were
       recruited and trained for the task. In the construction process, CHF used volunteers
       and community-based labor groups supervised by the outreach department and field
       construction manager to ensure adherence to work plan, material control
       requirements and construction standards. Both Implementing Agencies provided
       technically skilled volunteers and hired professionals to support in the construction of
       the Roof Structure; both RSKs included a construction manual and information on
       safe building materials. IOM also used teams of volunteers which reported to
       specialized units within IOM, including Community Liaison and Assessment,
       Prefabrication, Distribution, Construction and Beneficiary Follow-up.

       (v)     Quality Control and Reporting. The Implementing Agencies had a quality
       control system for the input and the output. The tracking procedures cover incoming
       material, production, field distribution, end-user tracking and community handover of
       the structure kits, quality control during the construction and certification upon
       completion of the construction.

1.6.   Revised Components


The original components approved by the Board remained unchanged for the duration of
the RSP.

1.7.   Other significant changes


Project End-Date Extensions



                                               4

12.     The JRF RSP grant agreement was signed on December 12, 2006 and became
effective on December 28, 2006, however, the first advance payments were not disbursed
until early January 2007. While the Implementing Agencies proceeded with beneficiary
identification prior to the drawdown of funds, full project implementation could not begin
until early January ­ a month behind the intended schedule. As a result of the shift in the
Project start date, the Implementing Agencies requested a one month extension of project
implementation to June 2007 for CHF and July 2007 for IOM. The task team raised no
objection as the extension still fell within the project closing date as specified in the grant
agreement.

Project Design Adjustment
13.     One issue facing the project was the overlap with the JRF Community-based
Settlement Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project (CSRRP) which was intended to fund
infrastructure and shelter reconstruction in areas administered by the World Bank's Urban
Poverty Project (UPP). The PAD clearly stated that the RSP will have to work outside the
UPP villages. In the UPP areas, the JRF fund channelled through the CSRRP (Re-Kompak)
that had been allocated for infrastructure in the villages should be diverted and prioritized for
the TS using the UPP mechanisms. Other parties, including IOM and CHF can cover the
remaining TS needs in the UPP villages whenever the TS needs in a particular village was no
longer covered by this infrastructure funds, that is, beyond 100 TS' per village. Local boards
of trustees ("BKMs") were loathe to spend on shelter for individual families at the expense of
common infrastructure for the whole community. The UPP task team moved to resolve this
through the imposition of penalties for BKMs who were found to have been negligent in
beneficiary identification.   Furthermore, the BKM's definition of community membership
sometimes excluded families within their geographical scope for a variety of reasons, most
commonly due to their recent arrivals from other villages since the earthquake. Both of these
issues resulted in leaving families without shelter in some UPP villages, even in the UPP
villages where BKM had covered all of the needed TS'.

14.     As a solution to this problem, it was agreed that both IOM and CHF could operate in
the UPP areas also in the villages where BKM had provided TS less than 100 units, if
there're still TS need there. As both implementing agencies expanded into these new areas,
they coordinated with representatives from JRF-CSRRP (Re-Kompak) and the community-
based BKMs in selecting and verifying beneficiaries, sharing information, and ensuring that
all those in need received shelter assistance while avoiding duplication of assistance between
the potentially overlapping projects.

Project Scale Reduction
15.     Prior to the mid-term review, an independent survey showed that the remaining need
of roof structure units was drastically decreasing due to the rapid implementation of the GoI-
funded permanent housing program which covered most of the earthquake affected people.
Within a year of the earthquake, the GoI Permanent Housing Program was able to provide
150,000 permanent houses for the earthquake-affected people.

16.     Given the unexpected speed of the GoI response, it became clear that the scale of the
project needed to be drastically reduced. The RSP task team conducted a mid-term review
(MTR) mission in March 2007 to assess program progress and evaluate the outstanding need
for transitional shelter. The mission and independent review team concluded that as of the
end of March, 2007, there remained only approximately 3,500 families in need of shelter. As


                                                5

a result of this, the overall targeted number of roof structure for the project was revised
downwards from 24,000 to 6,1412 as presented in Annex 2.

Reduced Grant Allocation
17.      As a result of the reduced scale of project operations, it was clear that total grant
allocation for both CHF and IOM would not be fully utilized. At the time of the mid-term
review mission, when the decision was made to reduce the scale of the project, US$0.27
million of the CHF grant and US$1 million of the IOM grant had been disbursed. An
additional US$0.64 million was scheduled to be disbursed for CHF. It was recommended at
that point that for CHF the total US$0.91 million and for IOM the disbursed funds would be
sufficient to cover remaining need and, therefore, further disbursements should be suspended.
This total was later revised upwards to cover extra need as well as to cover increased per-unit
costs.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1.     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


18.      The RSP was identified as a Rapid Response Emergency Operation given the
numbers of people homeless and the imminent rainy season at the time of preparation. In
hindsight, it appears that the need for transitional shelter was vastly over-estimated, however
this is understandable given the lessons learnt in the response to the Aceh tsunami in 2004
where the permanent reconstruction of houses took over two years and local institutional
capacity was severely disrupted.

19.      The RSP was conceived as a response to a transitional shelter provision gap identified
through assessment conducted by the ERC and prepared by the World Bank in cooperation
with the provincial governments of the Affected Areas and the two Implementing Agencies.
The biggest unknown at the time of project preparation was the ability of GoI to deliver on its
promise to construct 150,000 houses in the year following the earthquake.                          As
implementation of the GoI program had not begun in November when the RSP was
approved, the scale of the project appeared reasonable.

20.      The capacity of the local communities to band together to form community work
teams was well utilized by the RSP permitting minimal paid work in the construction phase
of the RSP and ensuring value-for-money.

2.2.     Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

21.      Project implementation proved creative and adaptable to changing circumstances as is
vital for work in a disaster recovery situation. The project was able to reduce scale, move



2At the MTR, the total number of TS constructed by both CHF and IOM was about 2,641 units. This figure
consists of the number of the constructed TS and the estimated remaining demand, based on the
independent survey.




                                                     6

into new areas and transfer excess building materials to suit the demands of the new situation
quickly and relatively efficiently.

22.      Over the course of the RSP, it became apparent that the GoI reconstruction program
was moving ahead at a rate far beyond what the RSP had anticipated, eventually succeeding
in constructing the approximately 150,000 houses it had promised within one year of the
earthquake. This highly satisfactory outcome had certain implications for the RSP, IOM had
begun procurement materials for a larger number of RSKs than were required for the final
number of RSKs delivered. CHFs more conservative approach to targeting and RSK
construction resulted in a more modest, but still significant over-procurement of materials.
This issue was raised by the Implementing Agencies to the task team at the MTR and
discussed the different options for the excess materials. After some consultations, the
Implementing Agencies were advised that the preferred option was to pass on remaining
materials on to the UPP housing program. The Implementing Agencies held discussions with
the local UPP and ReKompak representatives and with task team the amounts and locations
in need and organized the distribution of the materials in question to the dedicated UPP
locations in Bantul and Klaten.

2.3.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


23.      The World Bank's field office in the Affected Areas permitted close supervision of
the Implementing Agencies and played a major role in the timely and creative responses to
issues facing the projects. Overall the M&E design of the RSP and its implementation and
utilization from the Bank side was excellent. However, concerns were raised over the Bank's
combined role as Trustee, Monitor, and Implementer of multi-donor fund activities, as this
could be perceived as creating a conflict of interest and creating bias in monitoring.

2.4.     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


Safeguard
24.      As all TS' were constructed on the same landplots of the damaged houses, there was
no land acquisition or resettlement. Similarly, there was no on-site environmental impacts.
The use of bamboos in the RSP was also considered as not having significant impacts to the
environment, as they are widely planted in Java and in many, cases are grown without wildly.
Bambo is also considered as an environmentally friendly materials that can be easily
degraded by the environment.

25.      To ensure all safeguards concerns of the populace were taken into account, CHF
established a telephone hotline, monitored during working hours by volunteer, to receive and
respond to telephone or mobile-text-message concerns or complaints. CHF also placed
complaint boxes in each community, so that community members could submit anonymous
written complaints. These boxes and complaints were checked by CHF staff and community
leaders each week. All complaint policies, complaints and its follow up action were tracked
in database and posted in public places within the community to ensure transparency. IOM
established a partnership with local NGOs and provided training and instruction to maximize
the outreach of the beneficiary identification process. Further IOM set up a monitoring and
spot check system to assess the identification process of local partner NGOs. During the



                                                7

course of scheduled monitoring visit, it became clear that many of the families recommended
in the assessment reports to receive shelter assistance did not, meet IOM's eligibility criteria.
Partner implementation activities were immediately placed on hold as IOM and IOM's
partners took action to address the issue of recipient eligibility

Fiduciary.
26.     Procurement. CHF and IOM generally followed procurement procedures as specified
in the grant agreement and had appropriate procurement controls in place. The RSP task team
noted that CHF and IOM used a merit point system in evaluating bidder's quotations, which
was not acceptable as per the PAD Annex 4, Section B: Procurement and the Bank's
guidelines. Following on from this CHF provided the Bank with detailed information about
its approach and submitted a revised procurement plan and a redesign bid evaluation system.
However, IOM procurement process for roof tiles was significantly delayed in the initial
project implementation, however, it delivered all shelters within project implementation
timeframe.

27.     Financial Management. CHF had a satisfactory financial management system based
on the Bank's review of their internal controls, payment verification and documentation
under financial transactions in the field office. During the mid-term review mission, the Bank
suggested that CHF to establish an internal audit function which includes a review of internal
control over project implementation. Over the course of the project the task team noted that
CHF had improved their project financial management system to have better documentation,
systems and controls.

28.     IOM was evaluated as having adequate accounting systems and internal controls.
However, there was delayed in submission of financial management report due to dispute in
the foreign exchange rate in the special account report. During the mid-term review, it was
noted that IOM had an unsettled issue regarding initial deposit expenditures which again
delayed submission of the financial management report and withdrawal application. Towards
the project closing, IOM improved its reporting system.

2.5.    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

29.     There is no post-completion operation

3.      Assessment of Outcomes
3.1.    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


30.     The RSP promoted the transfer of earthquake-resistant construction knowledge to
beneficiaries as well as strengthening local institutional capacity through implementation
partnership, strongly supporting the final pillar of the FY2004-2008 Indonesia Country
Assistance Strategy ("CAS") ­ that is, to enhance disaster risk preparedness and response (by
strengthening institutional capacity and framework).

31.     The JRF's main objective is to respond to the most basic needs of the households


                                                8

affected by the earthquake, and housing is one of the most important basic needs. The JRF
RSP was designed to meet JRF objectives, responding to affected persons' basic needs,
through the versatility of the roof shelters and the reusability of their component materials.

3.2.    Achievement of Project Development Objectives


32.     The Project Development Objective of the RSP was to respond to the most basic
needs of the households affected by the earthquake through the provision of roof structures
that transition to permanent housing. Three key outcome indicators, two intermediate results
indicators and two output indicators were proposed to measure success against that objective.
However, only the key outcome indicator concerned with recipient satisfaction was met (and
significantly exceeded). The number of RSKs produced, delivered, and constructed did not
meet the original plans, as the TS needs decreased significantly since the MTR. However, all
of the TS needs was successfully covered by CHF and IOM during project implementation.
The lack of success in meeting outcome indicators does not point to a failure of the RSP,
rather a combination of the sorts of unexpected circumstances that arise in fast-changing
disaster relief situations.

33.     The most significant effects to the indicators were due to the outstanding success of
the GoI permanent housing reconstruction program that substantially decreased the total
number of Roof Structures required, increased the number of recipients transitioning to their
permanent houses and, consequently, decreased the occupancy rate of the Roof Structures by
the time of the final survey undertaken by the World Bank in July 2007.

34.     Another significant factor affecting the occupancy rate (ranging from 24-81% with a
target of 60%) was the extent to which the Roof Structure could be used for purposes other
than dwellings. Even at the time of the mid-term review, the task team noted substantial
numbers of Roof Structures that had been converted into small shops or other business places
and community meeting places. The usefulness of the Roof Structures as places of business,
warehouses, animal shelters and other community functions decreased the percentage of
beneficiaries that re-used the materials used in the Roof Structure to construct their
permanent house ranges from 3.45% to 40.54% (Annex 2).

35.     The most significant negative factor affecting occupancy rates was the differing
interpretations of the eligibility criteria by the Implementing Agencies and the World Bank in
the beginning stages of the RSP. Shelter eligibility criteria was agreed upon in the initial
stages of the project; however the implementing agencies applied that criteria based on
humanitarian need, which differed from the Bank's interpretation of those criteria.
Targeting of the beneficiaries by both Implementing Agencies following the mid-term review
greatly improved.

36.     For further detail on the project development outcomes and indicators, please refer to
Annex 2.

3.3.    Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)



                                                  9

37.      The RSP experienced significant cost overruns in the per-unit costs as compared with
the projections during project preparation. The realized per-unit cost for CHF was 37%
greater than the anticipated per-unit cost (US$446 vs.US$297) and for IOM was 150%
greater than the anticipated per-unit cost (US$658 vs.US$266). A large part of the increased
costs were largely as a result of the loss of economies of scale when the project was
downsized. Furthermore, IOM procured construction materials sufficient for the construction
of 3,000 Roof Structures in the early stages of the project before the reduced demand became
apparent. By project close, IOM had constructed 1,586 Roof Structures and dealt with the
oversupply by transferring the remaining materials to UPP villages throughout the Affected
Areas as approved by the task team.

38.      The role of the RSP in permitting earthquake affected persons to resume their lives
and enhancing their ability to cope while their permanent houses were being constructed is
quite high.    The internal rate of return for thousands of children returning to school,
beneficiaries returning to work and social wellbeing is impossible to calculate, but it is surely
substantial.

3.4.     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

39.      While most of the project indicators were not met numerically, the project
development objective of responding to the most basic needs of households affected by the
earthquake through the provision of Roof Structures that transition to permanent housing was
certainly met in substance. The RSP was able to complement the outstandingly successful
GoI permanent housing reconstruction program by bridging the shelter gap between
emergency shelter and permanent housing for those thousands of families that would have
otherwise had to remain in tents or other sub-standard dwellings throughout the rainy season.

40.      The Implementing Agencies in coordination with the local and provincial
governments of the Affected Areas, GoI, World Bank, the NGO community in the Affected
Areas, the academic community and the people of the Affected Areas showed flexibility and
initiative in dealing with a rapidly changing situation resulting in an effective project.

3.5.     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
41.      In accordance with the eligibility criteria that the Implementing Agencies used to
select beneficiaries, those who received Roof Structures were mostly poor households
without the means to rebuild an adequate dwelling before the mobilization of permanent
structure assistance from GoI. Mobilization of this assistance permitted them to resume their
lives and protected them from falling further into poverty

42.      Based on the beneficiaries assessment conducted by IOM, 396 of the households that
received assistance were headed by females, representing 25% of the total 1586 recipient
households. Data collected by CHF shows that 51.25 % of their recipient beneficiaries were


                                               10

female (5975 out of 11,658 beneficiaries).

43.     In addition to quantitative analysis, the survey of beneficiary satisfaction conducted
by the World Bank shows that satisfaction to be able to resume daily activities after receiving
Roof Structure assistance is higher for females than for males. It is difficult to analyze these
positive responses without taking into account the traditionally polite Javanese culture,
however, it may be concluded that the Roof Structure program benefited females in general.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

44.     Local Institution Contribution.         Positive development impacts of this project
include contributions to the strength of local institutions and support (through knowledge
exchange) of community self-help traditions.

45.     Javanese culture has an established tradition of voluntary community self-help,
known as gotong royong, where individuals work together to help other members of their
community with large or difficult tasks, such as rice-harvesting or construction projects.
CHF International utilized this tradition by pairing field construction teams, UGM volunteers
and one paid professional carpenter with gotong royong labor groups to erect the shelter
frames. In addition to the knowledge transfer from the paid professionals, gotong royong
groups have proven themselves more than capable of playing a major role in future
community development projects.

46.     Further, the CHF International facilitator team worked in close coordination with
volunteers from UGM (a major university in the earthquake-affected region). The durable
shelter used for the RSP was designed immediately following the earthquake by a team of
CHF engineers working in conjunction with the faculty of Architecture and Urban Planning
and the faculty of Engineering at UGM. Furthermore, UGM volunteers participated in or
were present at many stages of the roof structure delivery process, from beneficiary
identification and verification through construction completion and progress monitoring. The
resultant capacity building will have positive knock-on effects, as this local institution is now
positioned to take on greater responsibility in future disaster reconstruction efforts. IOM also
worked closely with the Engineering and Architecture Departments of the UGM in the
development of the design.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
47.     Given the speed with which the GoI permanent housing program occurred, the
vacated Roof Structures constructed by the project were able to be used for other economic
activities that played a significant role in the resumption of affected persons' livelihoods in
the Affected Areas.

3.6.     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

48.     Refer to Annex 5.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: The overall risk to the development outcome is rated Negligible to Low (L).


                                                11

49.     The shelter crisis caused by the Central Java earthquake has passed due to the shelter
programs conducted by the government, private individuals and the efforts of the donor
community, of which the RSP was a major component. As such, there is no further risk to
the development outcome.         Furthermore, the skills and knowledge transfer from the
academic, government and donor community on earthquake resistant construction techniques
should mitigate the scale of future destruction from a similar size earthquake.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
5.1.    Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

50.     While the demand for Roof Structures was vastly over-estimated, the project design
remained flexible enough to adapt to the changing circumstances to ensure the development
objective was met.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

51.     The close coordination between the World Bank and the Implementing Agencies both
in their respective field offices and head offices in Jakarta permitted early detection and
appropriate solutions to issues as they arose.       This close relationship resulted in the
improvement of targeting, the expansion of the program into UPP villages (solving a political
issue fast approaching crisis point as discussed in section 1.7), and an appropriate down-
scaling of the project before too much wastage occurred.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

52.     The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory because of its rapid response to
emergency, intensive supervision and monitoring, and strong coordination with other
stakeholders.

5.2.    Borrower Performance


(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

53.     GoI's main role in the RSP was as coordinator and supervisor in the overall
reconstruction program in Yogyakarta and Central Java, although its involvement was
minimal due to its focus on its own permanent housing reconstruction program.            The
Yogyakarta Provincial Government was responsive in the reconstruction assistance and
actively undertook coordination with other actors in the overall reconstruction program. The
Central Java Provincial Government was slightly slow in processing the grant agreement and
involved only at the district level.



                                              12

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The following table shows rating of the implementing agencies performance:

                               Task                                     CHF    IOM
 (i) set-up of the prefabrication facility                               S     N/A
 (ii) preparation of Roof Structure Kits                                HS      HS
 (iii) targeting and distribution of kits to beneficiaries              MS      MS
 (iv) assistance to beneficiaries during construction                    S       S
 (v) quality control and reporting                                      HS       S
Note: HS=Higly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; MS=Moderately Satisfactory


54.      Over the course of the project CHF International was able to successfully modulate
the level of production from the prefabrication facility to match the demand. After the MTR,
the pre-fabrication capacity has been constantly adjusted to the needs and demands of the JRF
project

55.      Further, RSKs delivered were standardized and of high quality. Monitoring teams
rarely encountered instances of RSK inadequacy over the course of this JRF RSP.

56.      CHF International and IOM used their local NGO networks, student volunteers and
outreach staff to identify beneficiaries in the field. At the time of the first supervision
mission, in January 2007, targeting was recognized as a major problem, with frequent, cases
of ineligibility. Following this supervision mission, both CHF International and IOM
dramatically improved their arrangements as well as capacities of NGOs and volunteers in
order to improve the process of selecting beneficiaries.

57.      The rating for assistance to beneficiaries during construction is largely based upon
field monitoring and beneficiary feedback. The very high level of beneficiary satisfaction
(see outcome indicators) justifies the satisfactory rating.

58.      CHF coordinated with a number of different stakeholders and maintained internal
monitoring mechanisms to ensure the quality measures were being achieved. They submitted
high quality reports to the task team in a generally timely manner. IOM quality control
activities were judged satisfactory, but they were judged moderately satisfactory for this
component due to difficulties adhering to the reporting schedule.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
59.      Both Implementing Agencies provided good quality Roof Structures under difficult
circumstances with high beneficiary satisfaction. Even for those beneficiaries who have
received permanent housing assistance, Roof Structures continue to play a role in the
livelihoods of 90% of the recipients pointing to continued satisfaction with the structures.
The prefabrication process, training, collaboration and coordination with other stakeholders
were all conducted in a satisfactory manner. This process was accelerated by the local
institutional capacity and community participation.




                                                     13

6.       Lessons Learned
60.      Although the JRF RSP successfully achieved its development objective, it would have
been structured and implemented much differently if the actual level of need had been more
accurately estimated prior to inception. Specifically, the estimated gap in coverage of housing
need required a response that was beyond the capacity of any one agency, so both IOM and CHF
were contracted to build roof structures. In actuality, however, the level of need was low enough
to easily be covered by only one group.

7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies (IOM and CHF)

61.      According to UN cluster data, the international aid community provided more than
80.000 temporary shelter (t-shelter) to the victims of the May 2006 earthquake. As the biggest
single contributor, IOM build and delivered more than 15.000 t-shelter all together, including
those funded under this project. JRF's contribution to the t-shelter programme was relevant and
needed to fill the remaining gap and to provide those still in need with adequate living space.

62.      As the JRF supported t-shelter programme started relatively late (January 08, or 8 months
after the earthquake), the recovery efforts were quite progressed by that time and the need for
further t-shelter assistance was smaller than initially anticipated. However, the results show that
IOM identified more than 1.500 families that were still in need and which could have not been
assisted without the JRF contribution. Hence, the JRF project enabled IOM to fill a critical gap,
which might have been smaller than anticipated but still existent.

63.      It is also a common phenomenon in large scale relief operation, that the "last 10%" of
beneficiaries to be reached in need of support are harder to reach, more scattered and more
problematic to identify and this was exactly the population targeted by the project. This increases
the time and costs involved compared to early stages of an intervention and contributes to higher
unit costs. Nevertheless, those supported by the JRF project were in need of assistance and thanks
to the project, could receive shelter support.

64.      Since the start of the project, IOM worked closely together with the task team to adopt to
the project to the fast changing environment and both sides were flexible enough to adjust the
project accordingly. When it became clear that the number of t-shelter needed was smaller than
initially assessed, the task team and IOM quickly reduced the project scope so that more than ¾
of the initially budgeted funds could be reallocated to other needs. IOM also worked closely
together with the JRF in order to find a solution for the unused materials. Thanks to the task
team's assistance and quick reaction, the materials could be delivered to the Re-Kompak
programme within the project timeframe.

65.      The Yogakarta and Central Java emergency relief operation is widely regarded as one of
the most successful interventions of the international aid community when it comes to natural
disaster responses. Provision of temporary shelter was the main focus of international aid and UN
data suggests that close to 99% of the t-shelter need was matched. The JRF funded project turned
out to be smaller than anticipated but greatly contributed to the vital need and a successful
intervention.

66.      Overall CHF achieved the project goals and objectives as stated and approved in the
project design document. CHF experienced a number of challenges during project
implementation, namely: Differences in perceptions of eligibility criteria; restrictions on areas of



                                                 14

operation and overlap with UPP programming; reduction in the scale of the project; and changes
in procurement procedures. However, CHF was able to work efficiently with the Bank in
overcoming all of these challenges quickly and in a manner agreeable to all parties. All changes
recommended in the MTR report, particularly as related to beneficiary targeting and procurement
procedures, were immediately addressed and resolved.

67.      The issues surrounding beneficiary identification had a significant impact on project
implementation. Both implementing agencies, in conjunction with the World Bank, established
clear eligibility criteria for shelter recipients in the initial program set-up. However, these criteria
differed from the criteria used for beneficiary identification under the World Bank-implemented
CSRRP program. This led to confusion among parties and disagreement over the appropriateness
of eligibility criteria. All parties worked to resolve this issue through extensive discussions on
criteria and the basis for the criteria (i.e. international humanitarian standards, such as SPHERE)
and ultimately reached agreement on beneficiary eligibility and targeting benchmarks.

68.      As noted previously, changes in demand for transitional shelter, based on the rapid onset
of the GoI housing program, also created implementation challenges. CHF addressed this
decrease in demand by reducing production numbers and deploying additional field teams to
identify beneficiaries as rapidly as possible over a wide geographic area. In spite of these efforts,
CHF retained some unused materials and shelter kits at the end of the program, which were in
turn provided to the CSRRP program for continued use in communities identified as vulnerable or
particularly in need.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
69.      Based on the reporting materials submitted to the donors, the following questions
were raised:
(i)      4,886 kits were produced, 4,790 delivered, and 4,434 constructed. Why were some
kits prefabricated not used for construction?

In the beginning, especially IOM, procured a large amount of materials at once with the intention
to be able to deliver fast. It was not anticipated that the government permanent housing program
was delivered quite fast, and therefore the TS projects had to "compete" in terms of delivery pace
with it. Large amount of materials had been bought and prefabricated, but the demand has been
declined rapidly. Consequently, IOM and CHF had difficulties in finding eligible beneficiaries,
resulting in the discrepancy of the kits produced and the units delivered. CHF slowed production
of kits to match declining demand, but even with reduced production, excess kits remained in
stock that could not be delivered to eligible beneficiaries. As the beneficiaries were prioritizing
to finish their permanent houses instead of the TS, not all units were completed at the closing of
the projects. This resulted in the discrepancy between the units delivered and the units
constructed. Many units were nearly complete (i.e. frame, roof, and walls constructed) but not
finished out as the beneficiaries focused on constructing their permanent homes. Our survey in
October 2007 indicated that some of the materials or units delivered were used as parts of the
permanent houses or used as supporting materials during the permanent house constructions.

(ii)     Low occupancy rate: please provide explanation on reasons behind.

The construction of the TS was carried out in parallel with that of the government permanent
housing. At the MTR, about 77% of the government permanent housing funds was disbursed to
the community. Within 6 months of the disbursement,, it was expected that the community would
have completed their permanent houses. The construction of the TS was completed at about the



                                                     15

same time with that of the permanent houses. Therefore, at the closing of the RSP, people had
moved to their permanent houses and no longer used the TS as their main place to live. This is the
reason why the occupancy rate of the TS at the closing was low. However, as the survey had
indicated, some of the TS were used and/or reused for their permanent houses. Furthermore, even
when families moved into their permanent houses, many continued to use the TS as small shops
or production rooms for livelihoods facilities, or as additional rooms (such as kitchens) for their
permanent homes. Many families also used the permanent home during the day but continued to
sleep in the TS at night, due to lingering fears of earthquakes and that fact that many felt safer in
a lightweight bamboo TS than a brick-and mortar permanent home.

(iii)    Mid-term review assessed "moderately satisfactory: on IOM and CHF's procurement
processing and IOM's financial management and follow-up actions were recommended. At
completion, how did you assess IOM/CHF's procurement and financial management? Were
there improvements and remedical actions successful?

The fact was that for IOM, at the MTR stage procurement was rated moderately satisfactory
because it used a merit point system. As a result, the winning supplier was not the lowest bidder
as has been suggested by the Bank (in the MTR's aide-memoire). IOM procured only once, so
that since the MTR, there has been no procurement. Therefore, at the closing its rating for
procurement remained moderately satisfactory.

In the case of CHF, the procurement was rated moderately satisfactory in the MTR for the same
reason as that of IOM. Following this rating, CHF submitted a revised procurement plan which
was subsequently approved by the Bank. Based on this revised plan, for any procurement
undertaken after the MTR, CHF no longer used a merit system and consequently, they selected
bidders with lowest bids. CHF had smaller packages so that they easily adjusted the procurement
sizes in accordance with the declining demands.

For financial management, IOM was rated moderately satisfactory during the MTR and
satisfactory during the project closing. This was because it had submitted the financial report not
in timely manner at the MTR, but in timely manner at the project closing. While the CHF's
financial management ratings were satisfactory both during MTR and at project closing.

(iv)     As of September 2007, project implemeted by IOM spent USD 1.04 million to build
1,586 units while CHF spent USD 1.2 million to build 2,848 units. Please elaborate on this.

Both IOM as well as CHF proposed a project cost consisting of staff costs, goods and materials,
labor costs and wages, operating costs and unallocated (contigencies). The amount of goods and
materials as well as the labor costs and wages reflected the number of units produced, however,
the staff and operating costs relatively the same regardless of the units produced. Therefore, the
lesser the number of units produced, the higher the costs per unit would be which mainly
contributed by the staff and operating costs.

Below are the breakdown of the costs in the original plans:




                                                 16

IOM

     LINE ITEMS                                                         Costs     Costs per unit
                                                                      (in US$)       (in US$)

     Staff costs and consultants services                                 396,000
     Goods and materials                                                2,800,000

     Labor costs and wages                                                464,000
     Operating costs                                                      426,000

     Unallocated                                                          172,000

     Total                                                              4,258,000        266.00


CHF

                            Object Class Categories                     Cost      Costs per unit
                                                                      (inUS$)        (inUS$)
      Staff Costs and consultants' services                             244,000

      Goods & Materials                                                1,668,000

      Labor costs and wages                                              100,000

      Operating costs                                                    336,000

      Unallocated                                                          32,000
                                                                                           297.5
      Total amount                                                      2,380,000


The above tables showed the costs per unit for the size of total production of 16,000 units and
8,000 units for IOM and CHF, respectively. At the project closing, the costs per unit for IOM and
CHF was $ 658 and $ 446 , respectively. These are 2.5 and 1.5 higher than the original costs, for
IOM and CHF, respectively. As noted previously, with the decrease in the scale of the project,
and over-procurement of materials based on anticipated demand, the individual unit cost
increased.

(v)      Was TS project good idea? Do you recommend for similar situations in the future?

Learning from the project, the appropriateness of the TS provision approach will depend on the
situation and external factors. First, the population and the local government function. In the case
of Yogyakarta, population remained intact and they have the capacity and social networks that
can rebuild their own houses. In this case, TS delivery will be better if carried out by the people
with their existing social networks/capacity. The local government functions was also in place
and for the case of Yogyakarta, by working together with the existing community social networks,
it is possible to deliver the TS immediately after the disaster. Second, TS provision should be
delivered very fast (as part of the immediate relief actions), it has to start immediately after the
disaster, while the community is waiting for permanent housing program. The challenge is the
identification of the beneficiaries. Again, this would be addressed by using the community social
networks, particularly using the existing community-based projects which have been there prior
to the disaster. To some extent, IOM and CHF used the community social networks, one of the
reasons that they could deliver relatively fast, particularly in identifying beneficiaries. Third,
government (Central and Local) programs for emergency and reconstruction. It is very important
to not underestimate the government capacity and commitment to deliver its emergency and
reconstruction housing programs. Yogyakarta has been always considered as one of the very
important regions in the country. It has a unique historical , social and economic position in the
country, so that Central Government will always do as best as it can to maintain Yogyakarta's
development. In the case of having strong commitment and capacity from the central government,


                                                    17

TS approach will only be an appropriate approach if it does not have to compete with the
government permanent housing program. Or in other words, it should be delivered as part of the
relief efforts immediately after the disaster. Both the Bank, as the trustee of the grants, and the
implementing agencies have to be equipped with a project preparation procedures that are tailored
to rapid relief-kind of requirements and mechanisms. Both CHF and IOM are equipped with these
procedures, which allowed for rapid mobilization, beneficiary identification, production, and
delivery of shelter kits immediately upon receipt of Project funds.

(vi)     Was implementing through NGO beneficial? Why? why not?

Working with NGOs and intergovernmental organization has advantages and shortcomings. The
Bank has had limited experiences in working with NGOs for project investments. The Bank has
mainly counterparted with the Central and local governments. Learning from the RSP, the main
advantage is once we agreed upfront on the procedures and requirements, funds disbursement
could be done relatively fast. Furthermore, an NGO like CHF and an intergovernmental
organization like IOM have well-established networks with government, and local and
international NGOs and universities to work with, and therefore, could draw upon these resources
to assist them in accelerating the TS delivery. As CHF and IOM are two international
organizations with good reputations, they have a well-established operational system, namely,
financial management, procurement, reporting system, etc. and their system and standards
requirement are easily can be adjusted with those of the Bank's. Adjustment of IOM and CHFs
procedures and requirements was made quite easily and this also contributed to the relatively fast
project preparation. If we worked with the government for the TS project, perhaps it would take
longer, as the project needs to be included in the national/local budget cycle, and in the situation
of rapid relief, the government may not be able to do the procurement rapidly. However, there are
some shortcomings for the project implemented by NGOs and intergovernmental organization.
First, again, in the situation where there was strong government capacity to deliver the permanent
housing program, the Bank had to monitor and supervise the project to ensure that beneficiary
criteria for TS reflected the realities in the field and were applied appropriately. Second, there
was a risk to have less flexibility in reducing procurement of materials as a respond to the
declining TS needs, because the NGO and the intergovernmental organization already design a
large-scale procurement upfront. This will affect the efficiency of the TS delivery, leading to
higher operational and overhead costs compared to the material and construction costs of the TS.

(vii)    Was deliverying Prefab good approach?

Delivering prefab units would be appropriate for a situation when there is no houses and people in
the disaster areas. In the case of Yogyakarta, there were still many houses (although with various
damage levels) and people living on-site in the disaster affected areas. People wanted to stay on-
site and built/rebuilt their houses on-site and it was a fact that land availability was in some cases
limited and its shape may not accommodate the pre-designed TS.
(i) The fixed design of roof structures required a certain size of land be available, which was not
always possible. This restriction on size did, if rarely, limit the selection process of beneficiaries;
(ii) The usage of bamboo as standard material affected the roof structures delivery and utilization
as follows:
       ·   During the reconstruction stage, the demand of bamboo was quite high in DIY and
           Central Java which affected the availability of bamboo for the JRF Roof Structures. To
           be able to obtain bamboo, both IOM and CHF had to search to other districts (beyond
           DIY and Central Java).




                                                   18

      ·    Bamboo is a material that has a high level of `starch'. Therefore large scale and rapid
           procurement contributed to a risk of getting a lower quality bamboo due to limited
           availability in the market. A lower quality bamboo affected the utilization of roof
           structure by the beneficiaries, especially near the project completion time due to
           bamboo scarcity.
(iii) Many beneficiaries did not construct the TS as soon as it received the units from the
implementing agencies, because they prioritizing the construction of the permanent houses.
During this period, the bamboo's quality declined. However, communities in Java are accustomed
to working with bamboo, and therefore could more easily construct the shelters out of locally-
available materials that are familiar to them. Furthermore, communities could easily replace or
reuse the bamboo in a number of ways, contributing to the overall objectives of the project.

In above mentioned situation, the TS as a prefab unit is less flexible to serve the needs of the
people. It would be more useful if in during the early reconstruction period, people were given
flexibility to rebuilt/built temporary shelters while waiting for permanent houses to come. Also,
people should have been given flexibility of type and quality of materials to build temporary
shelters. This approach can be done in a large scale without waiting for the prefab TS units are
produced. This would only be possible if the community-based approach is used for the delivery.
However, delivery of prefabricated units ensured rapid production and standardized high quality
of shelters. By delivering a standard model that communities worked to construct in the field, the
implementing agencies ensured the quality of the shelters while still allowing communities some
flexibility to modify the structures as needed, and re-use materials as appropriate.

IOM regards the pre-fabrication approach as appropriate and based its strategy in this respect
inter alia on lessons learnt from the Tsunami reconstruction operation. It turns out, that with a
centralized pre-fabrication approach a higher economy of scale and therefore cost efficiency can
be achieved. Furthermore, the pre-fabrication approach makes construction and project
implementation less dependent on local construction companies and other local partners. The
experience in Aceh showed that this can become a major bottleneck for timely progress and
construction standards as the project depends on the performance of such local partners, which
are difficult to control and only to a low extent, controllable through legal means, given the
complexity and length of the legal system in the country.

(viii)   Results achieved, especially for cross-cutting issues (gender, environment, DRR)

(a)      Results achieved in terms of gender issue is presented in the Annex 2. The satisfactory
level for male and female at the Mid-term Review (MTR) was > 87%, while at the closing or the
project was > 92%. In fact, satisfaction level for women in Central Java (Klaten) both for IOM
and CHF's TS was 100%.
(b)      There is relatively no environmental issues or impacts for the TS projects. Bamboo is
widely cultivated in Java and it is renewable plants. For a short period during early project
implementation stage, IOM and CHF had to obtain bamboo from outside Yogyakarta because of
the high demand. But this was not a problem. The project was preventing the people from
illegally harvesting wood from the forest, as it provided them with bamboo-based TS, while
waiting for the permanent houses from the government.
(c)      Bamboo-based TS is resistant to earthquake, as it is light and flexible, i.e. responsive to a
wind proof, and vertical load test indicated load of 860kgs and resistance up to 2.2 tons. IOM and
CHF designed a structurally strong unit and tested in the Gajah Mada University's laboratory. For
the Javanese, a bamboo-made houses psychologically give them a feeling to be safer than that of
concrete houses when there was earthquake.



                                                 19

Annex 1.        Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal


            Total Baseline Cost          0.00               0.00

Physical Contingencies                   4.468              1.092          24.44

Price Contingencies                      2.57               1.223          47.59
             Total Project Costs         6.638              2.315
Project Preparation Costs                0.0030             0.08             27
                                         0.0035             0.35            .100
      Total Financing Required           6.733             02.745




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Trust Funds                                     0.00         0.00
Indonesia - Java Reconstruction
Program                                             6.64         2.315        34.86




                                          20

        Annex 2.               Outputs by Component


      Project                                                Result Indicator
   Development              Key Outcome                                                             IOM                      CHF
     Objective                Indicators             Grant Agreement          Post-MTR

                                                    MTR          Closing       Target        MTR*)     Closing**)    MTR*)      Closing**)

                                                                                                                                DIY: Male:
                                                                                                                                93,94%-

                      Beneficiaries                                                          Male:                   Male:    female: 100%;
                      households'                                                           88.24%;    DIY: Male:   93.65%;     CJ: Male:
                      (men/women)                                                           Female:     96,77%-     Female:     97,14%;
                      satisfaction on ability to                                             87%        female:     94.17%    female: 100%
                      resume their normal
To respond to                                                                                         94,74%; CJ:
                      household activities,
the most basic        e.g. children can study,       80%          80%           NA                       male:
needs of the          family member/s can                                                               92.86 %-
                                                                                                                              95.37% (DIY);
households            conduct informal                                                                  female:
                                                                                                                               98.28% (CJ)
affected by the                                                                           98.1% (DIY);              90.8%
                      economic activities,                                                               100 %
earthquake            protected from rain and                                             74.7% (CJ)               (DIY); 93%

through the                                                                                                           (CJ)
                      adverse weather
provision of roof     conditions
structures that
transition to         Percentage of                                                                                               80.56%
permanent             beneficiaries of roof          60%          80%           NA        37.5% (DIY); 52 % (DIY);  39.4%          (DIY);
housing.              structures that transition                                          50.9% (CJ)  24.32% (CJ)    (DIY);     46.55% (CJ)
                      to permanent houses                                                                          42.9% (CJ)


                      Percentage of
                      beneficiaries of roof          60%          80%           NA        21.8% (DIY); 26 % (DIY);  24.3%     10.19% (DIY);
                      structures that reuse                                               35.3% (CJ)  40.54 % (CJ)   (DIY);    3.45% (CJ)
                      their materials in                                                                           20.7% (CJ)
                      permanent house

                      Number of                  Total: 22,400 Total:
                      prefabricated Roof                       24,000                        1,416       1,586       2,015        3,300
                      Structures Kits            (IOM:14,400
                                                                                6141
                      produced that meet         CHF: 8,000)   (IOM:16,000
                      satisfactory basic                       CHF: 8,000)
Households            technical quality
receive Roof
Structures Kit        Number of Roof             Total: 20,480 Total:
                      Structures Kit delivered                 24,000                        1,228       1,586       1,845        3,204
                      to eligible beneficiaries  (IOM:12,480
                                                                                6141
                      that meet satisfactory     CHF: 8,000)   (IOM:16,000
                      basic technical quality                  CHF: 8,000)

To provide                                                                   Total: 6,141
earthquake            Number of roof             Total: 15,940 Total:       (IOM: 974                    1,586                    2,848
affected families     structures constructed     (IOM: 8,640   24,000       CHF: 1,667 +      974     (CJ: 838 and   1,667    (CJ: 1000 and
with safe and         that conform to pre-                     (IOM:16,000     3,500)                  DIY: 748)               DIY: 1,848)
durable housing                                  CHF: 7,300)
                      agreed specifications                    CHF: 8,000)
through the
provision of roof
structures while      Percentage of roof                                                  65.4% (DIY); 16 % (DIY); 58% (DIY); 54.63% (DIY);
permanent             structures occupied by                                              55.4% (CJ)  24.32 % (CJ)             43.10% (CJ)
housing is being                                     90%          90%           NA                                 70.1% (CJ)
                      beneficiaries
rebuilt

*) MTR: Mid-Term Review: Feb, 20 to March 30, 2007
**) Figure in this column is based on the survey conducted by the World Bank in July-August 2007




                                                                     21

Annex 3.        Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision
                Processes

(a) Task Team members
Name                            Title                                               Unit
Identification/Preparation
Ida Ayu Indira Dharmapatni      Task Team Leader                                  EASUR
Hongjoo Hahm                    Infrastructure Sector Coordinator/Lead            EASUR
                                Infrastructure Specialist
Raj Soopramanien                Senior Counsel                                    LEGEA
Yogana Prasta                   Senior Disbursement Officer                        EACIF
Joe Leitmann                    Lead Environmental Specialist                      EASEN
Rajiv Sondhi                    Senior Financial Management Specialist            EAPCO
Unggul Suprayitno               Financial Management Specialist                   EAPCO
Rizal Rivai                     Senior Procurement Specialist                     EAPCO
Sarosh Khan                     Senior Infrastructure Specialist                 Consultant
Gottfried Roelcke               Urban Specialist                                 Consultant
John Holdaway                   Research Assistant                               Consultant

Supervision
Ida Ayu Indira Dharmapatni      Task Team Leader                                  EASUR
Hongjoo Hahm                    Infrastructure Sector Coordinator/Lead            EASUR
                                Infrastructure Specialist
Unggul Suprayitno               Financial Management Specialist                   EAPCO
Yogana Prasta                   Senior Disbursement Officer                        EACIF
C. Irma Dona                    Financial Management Specialist                  Consultant
Paulus Bagus Tjahjanto          Procurement Specialist                            EAPCO
Sutantyo Purnomo                                                                 Consultant
Tri Dwi Budirianto                                                               Consultant



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of staff weeks       USD thousands (including
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
PreparationFY07                            Not available                Not available
                           Total:
Supervision/ICR FY07&08                        10.5                     51,200
                           Total:                                       51,200




                                           22

Annex 4.         Beneficiary Survey Results
The survey was conducted by the World Bank during July-August 2007 to evaluate the
performance of the JRF RSP and identify the impact of the Roof Structures on the
beneficiaries based on the indicators stated in the Grant Agreement and PAD.

The survey measured six indicators as set out below:

No Indicator                                            CHF                   IOM
                                                  DIY     Central Java   DIY   Central Java
1.  Eligibility                                  50.93 %    74.14%       76%    78.38 %
2.  Process
a.  Source of Information
    Head of community group                      51.85%     65.52%       68%     89.19%
    Implementing agencies staff                  54.63%     41.38%       32%    10.81%
b.  Beneficiary knows the eligibility criteria   31.48%     46.55%       66%     56.76%
c.  Registration mechanism
    Through implementing agencies staff          82.41%     93.10%       92%    97.30%
    In community meeting                         4.63%      6.90%        2%      2.70%
    Others                                       12.04%       0%         8%        0%
d.  Announcement of recipient
    In community meeting                         76.85%     81.03%       52%    75.68%
    Through public (religious) places              0%       8.62%        0%        0%
    Others                                         1%       25.86%       48%    24.32%
e.  Complaints submitted                         2.78%      1.72%        4%      2.7%
    Complaints responded                          100%       100%       100%     100%

3.  Delivery Quality
a.  Material received is complete                94.44%     96.55%       68%     94.59%
b.  Timeliness delivery                          85.19%     93.10%       2%     43.24%
c.  Accompanied by hand-over document            79.63%     98.28%       96%    97.30%
d.  Material received in good quality            79.63%     70.96%       78%    62.16%
4.  RSU Construction
a.  Roof structures completed with manuals       75.93%     94.83%      100%     100%
    (book, training and posters)
b.  Provided assistance from the implementing    92.59%     87.93%       96%    91.89%
    agencies staff
c.  Provided assistance from the facilitator     38.89%     82.76%       96%     75.68%
d.  RSU constructed by community group           74.07%     60.34%       12%     18.92%
5.  Quality of RSU
a.  Good quality of main structure               84.26%     75.86%       90%    89.19%
b.  Good quality of overall structure            68.52%     62.07%       46%    64.86%
6   Outcome
a.  RSU occupancy duration (in months)            3.65       3.95        3.24     5.03
b.  Current occupancy rate of RSU                86.11%     91.38%       82%     100%
c.  Change to permanent house                    80.56%     46.55%       52%     24.32%
d.  Reuse RSU materials for permanent house      10.19%     3.45%        26%     40.54%
e.  Level of satisfaction to the RSU
    Male                                         93.94%     97.14%      96.77%  92.86%
    Female                                        100%       100%       94.74%   100%
    Total                                        95.37%     98.28%       96%    94.59%
f   Made modification to the RSU                 24.07%     12.07%       6%      5.41%




                                                 23

Source of eligibility information. The table shows that community received information
about assistance mostly from the head of community group (or RT). It is in line with the
method of beneficiary identification and selection that the implementing agencies undertaken
consultation with the head of villages or head of community group for preliminary
identification and selection of beneficiaries. Further, strong local institution in DIY and
Central Java contributed to greater role of local leaders in the reconstruction assistance,
including in the JRF RSP of CHF and IOM.

Knowing eligibility criteria. The eligibility criteria was disseminate among communities
through head of community groups and community meeting as well as use of public
information boards and leaflets. The implementing agencies field staff was provided by
eligibility criteria and conducted household assessments and community general meetings
for socialization of the program. Further, the implementing agencies undertake consultation
to the community leader and follow up with community meeting for final selection of
beneficiaries. CHF announced the list of beneficiary to community as implementation of
transparency principle in the JRF RSP program. Meanwhile IOM undertook final verification
as follow up of community meeting through deployment of field staff for final decision and
site inspection. The IOM Information System to ensure the community in general was aware of
the program and eligibility criteria. In some cases, IOM visited the villages in several occasions
to verify additional beneficiaries even during the construction stage, when the village beneficiary
identification process was technically already closed.

Delivery quality. Delivery quality is seen from four criteria: completeness of received
material, timeliness of delivery, provided by hand-over documents, and quality of received
material. Beneficiaries of JRF IOM in DIY surveyed said that the delivery time was not
accurate. The problem appeared due to delay in procurement of roof tiles in the earlier stage
of project implementation, therefore the beneficiaries received roof structure kits incomplete
and the delivery could not be done in timely manner. However, IOM's own assessment results
and beneficiary satisfaction process carried out towards the project closing, conducted for all JRF
beneficiaries, suggested a high satisfaction with the delivery of assistance. Further, IOM
procured materials of roof tiles slightly behind schedule although the other materials for roof
structure kits were procured in advance. The roof structure kits delivered to the beneficiaries
without roof tiles although it could be used because complemented with the tarpaulin to cover
the roof. But all of the materials was delivered within the project implementation.

Concerning the quality of materials received, small percentage of beneficiaries felt that the
materials received were not in good quality. As emergency program, it was required to
implementing agencies to deliver the program rapidly to allow the community to recover
prior assistance of permanent housing. Near the completion time, the implementing agencies
had difficulties to find a good quality material, especially for bamboo. Bamboo needs to be
cut in exact time and method to be used as material for structures meanwhile the need should
be fulfilled in such short time. Therefore, small portion of bamboos were received not in
good quality as it is easily to break. IOM purchased, stored and controlled the quality of
materials continuously at a warehouse/production facility. A quality control team was deployed
during distribution and construction as well to ensure only good quality materials would be
utilized for the construction process. Broken bamboo or straps were returned to the production
site were they would be replaced; at a later stage, IOM would provide extra material for each




                                                24

truck with prefab elements so the QC team on site could repair the light damages if any. This
created greater efficiency in delivery.

RSU Construction.          The survey identified the performance of roof structure unit
construction. Implementing agencies applied different approach for construction, for example
CHF involved community groups (in gotong-royong system) to construct the roof structure
supervised by the field technical staff. Meanwhile, IOM constructed the roof structure by
professional worker accompanied by facilitator and witnessed by recipient community. The
result of the survey shows that although it was not obligatory for community to involve in
construction of RSU IOM, but in most cases, the beneficiaries voluntarily involved in the
construction process.

RSU Quality.         As previously mentioned that near to the project completion, the
implementing agencies had difficulties to find a good quality material especially bamboo.
Therefore, they had to search ouside the DIY province since the bamboo availability in DIY
and Central Java was drastically reduced.

Outcome. The survey measures achievement of outcome as the following: beneficiary's
satisfaction, number of beneficiary's who changes their RSU to permanent house and number
of beneficiaries who uses RSU materials for their permanent house. It is shown in the above
table that the transformation of RSU to permanent house is happened to small percentage of
beneficiaries. The reason is during the survey was undertaken many respondents have
received permanent house assistance from the Government. The RSU, therefore, is utilized
for other purposes (compliment to permanent house), such as: mini market, animal stall or
even it becomes part of the permanent house (kitchen). In addition, few beneficiaries who
have not yet received permanent housing assistance utilize the RSU as living place.

Concerning the reuse of RSU materials for permanent house, it is only small percentage of
beneficiaries who reused the materials. It is because of among all materials, only roof tiles
which can be re-used. Further, as previously mentioned, most of beneficiaries used the RSU
as complimentary to their permanent house.




                                             25

Annex 5.       List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Appraisal Document for A Java Reconstruction Fund (JRF) in the Amount of US
    $ 4.258 Million to Republic of Indonesia for the International Organization for Migration
    (IOM), Yogyakarta and Central Java Earthquake Roof Structure Project, December 22,
    2006
2. Grant Agreement (Yogyakarta and Central Java Earthquake Roof Structure Project)
    among International Organization for Migration (IOM), Republik of Indonesia,
    respresented by the Governor of the Yogyakarta Special Region and Central Java
    Province, and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/International
    Development Association, acting as Administrators of Grant Funds under the Java
    Reconstruction Fund, December 12, 2006
3. Project Appraisal Document for A Java Reconstruction Fund (JRF) in the Amount of US
    $ 2.38 Million to Republic of Indonesia for the Cooperative Housing Foundation (CHF)
    International, Yogyakarta and Central Java Earthquake Roof Structure Project, December
    22, 2006
4. Grant Agreement (Yogyakarta and Central Java Earthquake Roof Structure Project)
    among Cooperative Housing Foundation (CHF) International, Republik of Indonesia,
    respresented by the Governor of the Yogyakarta Special Region and Central Java
    Province, and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/International
    Development Association, acting as Administrators of Grant Funds under the Java
    Reconstruction Fund, December 12, 2006
5. Mid-term Review Mission February 27-March 30, 2007, Aide Memoire
6. Independent Survey Final Report, LPPM University of Gajah Mada, April 2007
7. Monthly Reports of IOM and CHF International
8. Final Report of International Organization for Migration, period of December 28, 2006-
    July 27, 2007
9. Project Completion Report of CHF International, October 31, 2007
10. Independent's Auditor Report for International Organization for Migration, October 31,
    2007
11. Independent's Auditor Report for CHF International, September 19, 2007




                                             26

