The World Bank                                                                         -3)
INTERNATIONAL I W IK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP NT  Ministries Comp, Kololo Road   GSM: (+249)900905458
INTERNATIONAL II -.ELOPMENT ASSOCIATION        -It              ofHealth,              GSM: (+249)900905459
n, -GSM :(+249)900905460
August 3, 2012
Hon. Kosti Manibe Ngai
Minister
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Juba, Republic of South Sudan
Re: South Sudan: MDTF - SS Grant No. TF097653
Core Fiduciary Systems Support Project
Amendment No. 2 to 1the Amended and Restated Grant Agreement
Hoiorable:
We refer to the Amended and Restated Grant Agreement (the "Agreement") dated
June 29, 2011, between the International Development Association ("World Bank"), acting as
administrator of grant funds provided by various donors under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for
South Sudan ("MDTF-SS") and the Government of South Sudan ("Recipient" or "GoSS") for the
Core Fiduciary Systems Support Projec: (the "Project").
We are pleased to inform you that the World Bank has recently approved an amount of
USS1.0 million as a third additional grant for the Project. This third additional grant will bring the
cumulative total of the grant to US$5.3 million. In addition, the World Bank has established
March, 31, 2013 as the later date for purposes of Paragraph 3.03 of the Annex of the Agreement.
For the purpose of paragraph (ii) in Section of the Disbursement Letter I (Disbursement
Arrangements), the grace period for withdrawals of Grant proceeds after the Closing Date is
April 30, 2013.
In order to provide this additional grant to the Recipient, we propose to amend the
Agreement in respect of the provisions below:
1. Second paragraph of the Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of the Government
of Southern Sudan ("Recipient" or "GoSS"), I am pleased to inform you that the
International Development Association ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of
grant funds provided by various donors under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for
Southern Sudan ("MDTF-SS"), proposes to extend to the Recipient for the benefit of
the Sudan ("Member Counry"), a grant in an amount not to exceed five million and
three hundred United Statcs Dollars (USD 5,300,000) ("Additional Grant") on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this letter agreement ("Agreement"),
which includes the attached annex ("Annex") for the purpose of providing additional
financing for activities related to the Original Project as described in the Annex
("Project").
2. The table in Section 3.01 of the Annex to the Agreement is deleted in its entirety and is
replaced with the Annex attached to this amendment letter.


﻿H:n. Kosti Manibe Ngai                      2                               August 3, 2012
All other provisions of the Agreement, except amended herein, shall remain in full force
and effect.
Please confirm the Recipient's agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized official
of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Amendment, and returning it to the World
Bznk. Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Amendment shall become
effe.ctive as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Greg Toulmin
Acting Country Director for South Sudan
Africa Region
AGREED:
GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH SUDAN
By:
Hon. Kosti Manibe Ngai
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
Datc: 1


﻿11oi. Kosti Manibe Ngai                    3                              August 32012
Annex
Category                         Amount    of   the   Percentage     of     the
allocated grant in US  expenditure to be financed
Dollars               including taxes
Ccnsultancy Services and Audit,  5,300,000             100
Goods, Workshop, Training and
Operating Costs
Total                            5,300,000


