Page  1
T
he World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
September 01, 2010 
 
H.E. David Deng Athorbei 
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning 
Government of Southern Sudan (GoSS) 
Juba, Sudan 
 
The Sudan: MDTF 
–
SS Grant No. TF097653 
Additional Financing for Core Fiduciary Systems Support Project
Excellency: 
 
In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of Government of 
Southern Sudan (“Recipient” or “GoSS”),
 
I
am pleased to inform you that the International 
Development Association (“World Bank”), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by 
various donors under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan (“MDTF-SS”), proposes to 
extend to the Recipient for the benefit of the Sudan (“Member Country”), a grant in an amount not 
to exceed three million United States Dollars (USD 3,000,000) (“Grant”) on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this letter agreement (“Agreement”), which includes the 
attached annex (“Annex”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project as described in the Annex (“Project”).  
 
This Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank 
receives periodic contributions.  In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as 
defined in the Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to 
the availability of such funds. 
 
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter 
into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement.  
 
Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized official 
of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to the World 
Bank.  Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement shall become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Ian Bannon 
Acting Director of the Comprehensive Peace  
Agreement and Fragile States Cluster 
Page  2
2
AGREED: 
 
By /s/ H.E. David Deng Athorbei 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
H.E. David Deng Athorbei 
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning 
 
Date: June 9, 2010 
 
Enclosures:   
 
(1) 
Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds, 
dated July 31, 2010 
(2) 
Disbursement Letter dated September 1, 2010, together with World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006 
 
Page  3
3
MDTF-SS Grant No
 
TF097653 
ANNEX 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
Standard Conditions.
 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out 
of Various Funds dated July 31, 2010 (
“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Definitions.  
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in the Appendix to 
this Agreement. 
 
Article II 
Project Execution 
 
2.01. 
Project Objectives and Description.
 
The objective of the project described below 
(“Project”) is to put in place a robust framework for channeling of MDTF-SS and GoSS counterpart 
funds to provide reasonable assurance regarding the use of these funds. 
 
The Project consists of the following part:   
 
Part A
:
Procurement 
Provision of technical assistance, goods, services and operating costs to enhance and 
strengthen the Recipient’s public procurement functions including: (i) finalization of public 
procurement legislation: (ii) strengthening the procurement policy unit in MOFEP, and (iii) 
retaining the services of a procurement agent to support MOFEP in carrying out day-to-day 
GoSS procurement and facilitate the decentralization of public procurement functions of 
Recipient’s ministries, departments and agencies.  
 
2.02. 
Project Execution Generally.
 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project.  To this end, the Recipient shall implement the Project through MOFEP in 
accordance with the provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines 
on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”), with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement; and (c) this Article II. 
 
2.03. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements.
 
(a) 
Project Implementation Manual:
(i) The Recipient shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. (ii) Except as the World Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no amendment or waiver of any provision of the Project Implementation Manual 
shall be made, without the prior written approval of the World Bank.  In the event of any conflict 
between the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and this Agreement, the provisions 
of this Agreement shall govern. 
 
Page  4
4
2.04.  
Donor Visibility and Visit
.
(a) The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all 
such measures as the World Bank may reasonably re
quest to identify publicly the Donor’s 
support for the Project.   
 
(b) For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient shall, upon the 
World Bank’s request, take all measures required on its part to enable the representatives of the 
Donor(s) to visit any part of the Member Country’s territory for purposes related to the Project. 
2.05.
 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.  
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the World 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished 
to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be furnished 
to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date
.
In order to assist the 
Recipient in preparing the Completion Report, the Recipient shall employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the World Bank. 
 
2.06. 
Financial Management.
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management 
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each such audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months 
after the end of such period.
 
2.07. 
Procurement 
 
(a) General
.
All goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in: 
 
(i) 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010 
(“Procurement Guidelines”), in the case of goods; 
 
(ii) 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; 
and 
 
(iii) 
the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for the Project in 
Page  5
5
accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement 
Guidelines 
and 
paragraph 
1.24 
of 
the Consultant Guidelines
 (“Procurement Plan”). 
 
(b) Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this 
Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, 
or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
(c) 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (ii) below, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
(ii) 
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
may be used for procurement of goods for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (A) 
Limited International Bidding; (B) National Competitive Bidding; (C) Shopping; (D) Direct 
Contracting; (E) Established Private or Commercial Practices which have been found acceptable 
to the World Bank; and (F) Procurement from United Nations agencies. 
 
(d)  
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
(ii) 
Selection of Individual Consultants method may be used for the 
procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement 
Plan. 
 
(e) 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
.
The Procurement Plan 
shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.
 
Article III 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds 
 
3.01. 
Eligible Expenditures.
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), 
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table.  The table specifies the 
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
(“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant
Allocated 
(in US Dollars)
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed (Inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Consultant Services and audits, 
100% 
Page  6
6
Goods, Workshops and Training 
and Operating Costs 
3,000,000 
 
TOTAL 3,000,000 
======== 
 
3.02. 
Withdrawal Conditions.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature 
of this Agreement by the Recipient. 
3.03. 
Withdrawal Period.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard 
Conditions is June 30, 2011. 
Article IV 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
4.01. 
Recipient’s Representative
.
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 
of the Standard Conditions is the minister at the time responsible for finance. 
4.02. 
Recipient’s Address
.
The Recip
ient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard 
Conditions is: 
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning 
Juba, Sudan 
 
4.03. 
World Bank’s Address
.
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the 
Standard Conditions is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  7
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions  
 
1. 
“Fiscal Year” 
means the fiscal year of the Recipient which commences on January 1 and 
ends on December 31. 
 
2. 
“
MOFEP
”
means the Recipient’s ministry responsible for finance and any successor 
thereto. 
 
3. “
Operating Costs
”
means the incremental expenditures incurred by the Recipient in the 
implementation of the Project, on account of office supplies, office rent, communication 
and insurance charges, maintenance of office equipment, vehicle operations and 
maintenance costs, utilities, travel and travel allowances, and salaries of locally 
contracted employees, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
 
4. “
Original Grant Agreement
”
means the grant agreement for Core Fiduciary Systems 
Support Project between the Recipient and the Association, acting as administrator of 
grant funds provided by various donors under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern 
Sudan dated February 21, 2006, as amended to the date of this Agreement (TF Grant No. 
TF056336). 
5. “
Original Project
”
means the project described in the Original Grant Agreement. 
6.  
“
Procurement Plan
”
means the Recipient’s procurement plan dated August 24, 2010 
covering the initial 6-month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time, to cover succeeding 18-month periods (or longer) of 
Project implementation. 
7. “
Project Implementation Manual
”
means the manual dated September 6, 2006 adopted 
by the Recipient and setting out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and 
criteria, including administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements 
and procedures, as shall be required for the Project, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank, and such term includes 
any schedules to the Project Operational Manual. 
 
8. “
Workshops and Training” 
means the reasonable costs for the following expenditures, 
based on an Annual Work Plan, incurred in providing training or workshops:  travel by 
participants and presenters to the training or workshop site, per diem allowances of such 
persons during the training or workshop, honoraria for the presenters, rental of facilities, 
materials, supplies and translation and interpretation services. 
Section II.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines  
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as 
follows: 
 
“…(b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or 
entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the 
Page  8
8
individual 
or 
entity 
has 
been 
debarred by another financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged 
in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the 
proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13)
 a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (
fn 14) 
or an individual or entity, 
including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible 
publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, 
for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or 
implementation of the project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the 
Bank, if at any time the Bank determines 
(fn 15) 
that such Borrower, individual or entity 
has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such 
financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing 
made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed contract 
upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier 
with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of any of its 
political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and agencies that are 
not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose of 
making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of 
sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining 
the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, and explaining how 
cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and 
other stakeholders.”
 
