Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18987 DO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
WASTEWATER DISPOSAL IN TOURISM CENTERS PROJECT
April 18, 2000
Finance, Private Sector, and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 15, 1999)
Currency Unit = Peso
Peso = US$0.063
US$1.00 = 15.85 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADCP            Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler
ASONAHORES  Asociaci6n Nacional de Hoteles y Restaurantes (National Association of
Hotels and Restaurants)
BOD             Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CAASD           Compania de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Santo Domingo (Santo
Domingo Water and Sewerage Company)
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CCC             Contract Control Committee
CORAASAN        Corporacicn de Acueductos y Alcantarillados de Santiago (Santiago
Water and Sewerage Corporation)
EMP             Environmental Management Plan
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
FMS             Financial Management System
HDPE            High Density Poly Ethylene
lOP             Initial Operating Stage
INAPA           Instituto Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado (National Drinking
Water and Sewerage Institute)
LIL             Learning and Innovation Loan
LMD             Liga Municipal Dominicana (Dominican League of Municipalities)
NOP             Normal operating Stage
PMR             Project Management Reports
PSP             Private Sector Participation
SDT             Salinity Temperature and Depth
SIL             Sector Investment Loan
UASB            Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket reactor
Vice President:               David De Ferranti
Country Management Unit Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Management Unit Director:   Danny Leipziger
Task Managers:                Menahem Libhaber / Oscar Alvarado



Dominican Republic
Wastewater Disposal in Tourism Centers Project
CONTENTS
Page number
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .                                                  ........................................................................I
1. Project development objectives (See Annex  1) ..........................................................................                          1
2. Key performance indicators (See Annex  1A) .........................................................................                               1
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT ........................................................................lI
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (See Annex 1) .......  I
2. Main sector issues and Goverwnent strategy .........................................................................                               1
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project .........................4............................4
4. Learning and innovation expectations  .........................................................................                                   4
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ..........................................................................6
1. Project components                    ........................................................................  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .................................8........................8
3. Benefits and target population .........................................................................9
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements..........1.........0.....- ............................................. l0
D: PROJECT RATIONALE ........................................................................                                                           11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..................................................1..............I 1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or otlier development agencies .13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ........................................ 14
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ......................................... 14
5.  Value added of Bank support in this project ........................................  15
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ........................................                                                                                     15
1. Economic analysis (See Annex 4) ........................................                                                                         15
2. Financial assessment (See Annex 5) ........................................ 16
3. Technical analysis ........................................ 17
4. Institutional arrangements ........................................ 19
5. Social assessment ........................................                                                                                        19
6. Environmental assessment .........................................                                                                               20
7. Participatory approach .........................................                                                                                 2 1
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .........................................                                                                                    22
1. Sustainability ......................................... 22
2. Citical Risks ......................................... 22
3. Possible Controversial Aspects.                                ......................................... 24
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ........................................                                                                                        25
1. Negotiations conditions .........................................                                                                               25
2. Effectiveness conditions .........................................                                                                               25
3. Other conditions ........................................                                                                                        25
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ..........................................                                                                              25
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ........................................                                                                               26






Annexes
Page number
ANNEX I PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY                             27
ANNEX IA KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS                        31
ANNEX 2 PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                32
ANNEX 3 ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS                            39
ANNEX 3A PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                   41
ANNEX 4 COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS                              42
ANNEX 5 FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT OF THE FUTURE PSP COMPANY     46
ANNEX 6 PROCUREMENT AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS    56
ANNEX 7 PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE             63
ANNEX 8 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY                   64
ANNEX 9 TECHNICAL NOTES ON THE MARINE OUTFALL              71
ANNEX 10 AN OPTION FOR CONTROLLING/SUPERVISING THE PSP CONTRACT   82
ANNEX 11 DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE                     85
ANNEX 12 STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS                    86
ANNEX 13 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AT A GLANCE                    88
MAP OF PROJECT AREA                                        89






Dominican Republic
Wastewater Disposal in Tourism Centers Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Date: October 26, 1999                               Task Managers: Menahem Libhaber / Oscar Alvarado
Country Manager / Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos   Sector Manager / Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: DO-PE-     Sector: Water Supply &        Program Objective Category: Economic Management
59510                  Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan     Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data               [X] Loan        [] Credit      [  Guarantee       [] Other
[Specify]
For Loans:
Amount (US$m): 5.00
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     [X] Single currency, specify US Dollars
Grace period (years): 4           []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed           [X]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: N/A
Front-end Fee   1 %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source          Local             Foreign           Total
Government            2.55                                 2.55
Cofinanciers          -                   -                -
IBRD including Front end fee of 1%        0.89                4.11             5.00
Total           3.44               4.11              7.55
Borrower: Dominican Republic
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                 2000      2001      2002    2003
Annual                 0.50      2.00       2.00     0.50
Cumulative                0.50       2.50      4.50     5.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: August 31, 2000    Expected closing date: June 30, 2003






Page 1
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives (See Annex 1)
The project development objectives of this Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) are to: (i) apply and test
an innovative technology for environmentally sound disposal of treated wastewater of small and medium-
size coastal towns through small-diameter cost-effective submarine outfalls; and (ii) prepare and
implement, for the first time in the Dominican Republic, an innovative model for incorporating the
private sector in the provision of water supply and sewerage services in tourism centers; both objectives
being piloted in the region of Puerto Plata, Sosua and Cabarete. Both the wastewater disposal technology
and the institutional model could consequently be used, with the incorporation of lessons learned during
the LIL, to prepare and implement a follow up operation in other tourism centers.
2. Key performance indicators (See Annex IA)
The key performance indicators for the project development objective include: (i) pathogenic coliforms
discharged through the outfall diffuser do not reach bathing areas in the sea and; (ii) success in hiring a
private operator to provide the water and sewerage services in the Puerto Plata, Sosua and Cabarete
region. Public health indicators are not included as performance indicators since it would be difficult to
follow up on such indicators in the limited time and resources available. Nevertheless, the measurement
of the pathogenic coliforms gives an indication on public health patterns.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (See Annex I)
CAS document number: 19393-DO   Date of latest CAS discussion: July 6, 1999
The CAS highlights several goals which the project will support, including by order of importance for this
project: (i) promote environmental policies for sustainable development and arrest the deterioration of
coastal areas caused by poor waste and development management which threatens the tourism industry,
which currently comprises 13% of GDP and contributes 29% of total export earnings; (ii) improve
incentives for private sector participation in economic activity by increasing private participation in water
and sanitation systems management; (iii) address water and sanitation needs of tourism areas and their
adjacent populations; and (iv) contribute to poverty alleviation, increase the poor access to the benefits of
growth and contribute to improving public health, through the appropriate provision of safe drinking
water and disposal of wastewater.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Main water sector issues
The water and sewerage services in the Dominican Republic are characterized by: (i) low coverage rates
(41% of the urban population is connected to a potable water distribution network and only 11% to a
sewage collection network); (ii) institutional weakness of the existing water and sewerage utilities; (iii)
low investment in the sector and long construction delays due to lack of funds; (iv) inadequate operation
and low maintenance of water and sewerage systems; (v) minimal cost recovery; (vi) high levels of
unaccounted-for water; (vii) pollution of surface water, groundwater, and the coastal environment caused
by inadequate discharge of untreated wastewater; (viii) pollution of surface and groundwater caused by
inadequate dumping of solid waste; (ix) sea water intrusion to groundwater in some coastal areas; and (x)
potential water scarcity in certain parts of the country.



Page 2
Water and sewerage services in the Dominican Republic are provided by three public companies,
CAASD (Compania de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Santo Domingo) the water company of Santo
Domingo, serving a population of about 3 million inhabitants, CORAASAN (Corporaci6n de Acueductos
y Alcantarillados de Santiago) the water company of Santiago, serving a population of about I million
inhabitants, and INAPA (Instituto Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado) the water company
serving the rest of the country and most of the national territory, with a population of about 3 million
inhabitants. Recently, a fourth small company, CORAAMOCA, has been established for the small town
of Moca.
These companies suffer from inadequate funding, low cost-recovery and deficient operation and
maintenance. The IDB has recently approved a project for modemizing the water sector, including
preparation of a new regulatory framework and a conceptual vision for sector improvement. The Bank
shares the proposed vision for sector transformation which includes at the operational level: (i)
decentralizing INAPA by transferring all the large and medium size cities to the private sector while
maintaining INAPA basically as a rural water provider; and (ii) incorporating the private sector in the
management of CAASD and CORAASAN for the purpose of improving the performance of these
companies.
Main environment and tourism sector issues
The tourism industry is one of the most important economic activities of the country. It completely
depends on the quality of the coastal environment. The number of hotel rooms in the nine most important
tourism centers is projected to increase from the 1998 level of 33,000 to about 40,000 in 2000, and about
60,000 in 2010. However, the tourism industry is threatened by the deficiency of the water and sewerage
services and the environmental pollution caused by inadequate management and disposal of sewage and
solid waste. In some cases, untreated wastewater is discharged to creeks and beaches; in others, the
existing wastewater treatment systems are inadequate or inoperative, and the effluent is either discharged
close to the seashore or used for irrigation of parks and green areas within hotel resorts, while the effluent
quality is inadequate for such disposal methods. The current wastewater disposal practices pose health
risks, which could deter foreigners from visiting the Dominican Republic. Last year, the number of
tourists from the U.K. has dropped significantly due to a report in the British press on beach pollution and
health risks in the Dominican Republic.
Government strategy
A major goal of the Government is to reverse the trends of environmental degradation in tourism centers.
To achieve this goal, the Government has initiated the implementation of a National Environmental
Policy Reform Project. The Government strategy to support the growth of the tourism industry is to
provide the necessary infrastructure and public services. As part of this strategy, the Government has
requested Bank's support to implement a water and sanitation project in tourism centers (in a form of a
SIL operation), which would be preceded by two small (pilot) LIL projects, one for wastewater disposal
in tourism centers and the other for solid wastes management in tourism centers, to test innovative
technical and institutional approaches for wastewater disposal and solid waste management, respectively.
The lessons of the LIL projects could be used in a larger SIL operation investment program for providing
similar services in other tourism centers and adjacent residential areas, should such an operation follow.
The Government agrees with the Bank's position that the institutional weakness of the public companies
in charge of water and sewerage services does not allow these companies to solve the urgent
environmental problems that threaten the tourism industry and the residential areas adjacent to the hotel
resorts (safe water supply, adequate wastewater disposal and appropriate solid waste management), which
pose health risks to the general population and to the visiting tourists. Therefore, the Government and the
Bank have agreed that the participation of the private sector in the provision of water, sewerage and solid
waste services is the appropriate strategy to attend to the sector needs.



Page 3
The region selected for implementing the wastewater disposal LIL and the solid wastes management LIL
is the Puerto Plata/Sosua/Cabarete region, since it is the largest tourism region in the country and it
suffers from severe problems of wastewater and solid wastes management.
As far as water and sewerage services are concerned, the public utility in charge of providing water and
sewerage services in the project area, INAPA, has agreed to delegate responsibility for the provision of
the water and sewerage services to the private sector. ASONAHORES, the national hotel and restaurant
association, fully supports the Government's strategy.
Project strategic choices
The process of incorporating the private sector in the provision of the water and sewerage services in the
Puerto Plata/Sosua/Cabarete region will be carried out in the framework of the proposed wastewater
disposal in tourism centers LIL project. The preparation of the PSP process has already been initiated as
part of the preparation of the project and a team of individual consultants has been hired for that purpose.
In parallel to the PSP in the provision of water and sewerage services, a process of implementation of PSP
in the provision of solid wastes services in the Puerto Plata/Sosua/Cabarete region will be carried out in
the framework of the proposed solid wastes management in tourism centers LIL project.
In regard to water and sewerage, an agreement has been reached that the PSP model would be a service
contract signed with a private operator, under which the water and sanitation services in the project site
would be managed by the operator. The PSP contract will define the obligation and rights of the operator
and impose conditions similar to those of a concession.
The office of reform and modernization of the water and sanitation sector is currently working, with the
support of the IDB, on developing a new legal framework for PSP (the Framework Law). Until the new
law is enacted, the PSP contract prepared under the project will define its legal framework and control
arrangements. It is understood that the new law will contain transition provisions which will allow the
arrangements taken in the context of the LIL project to remain valid. When such a framework is enacted,
the PSP contract might be adjusted to it, if both sides agree to do it, or may remain controlled under the
PSP contract. Therefore, it is not necessary nor advisable to wait for enacting the new regulatory
framework before being able to go ahead with the LIL project since it might take a while before the new
framework is approved by the congress. In addition, the PSP model proposed under the LIL is in
accordance with the main stipulations of the draft regulatory framework, and this draft framework will be
known to the potential private operators before submitting their bids.
The Government is preparing a proposal for defining the mechanism of control and supervision of the
contract (See Annex 10). If necessary, technical assistance will be provided to it. Consultants or a
consulting firm might be hired to assist in performing the contract control and supervision duties and in
evaluating the performance of the operator.
The preparation of the PSP process under the LIL would benefit the Governnent by making the staff of the
Technical Secretariat of the Presidency familiar with preparing PSP processes in the water sector. The know-
how gained by Government officials in PSP will help them in preparing similar processes in other tourism
centers and will decrease the risks of subsequent projects, including the potential SIL should the latter be
granted.



Page 4
The detailed conditions and structure envisaged for the PSP contract are currently under preparation and are
still being discussed with the Government. As a result, they are still subject to changes and the ideas
presented in this report should be considered as indicative only. They will be developed in detail during the
execution of the proposed LIL. However, substantial progress in preparing the contracts with the operator
and the bidding documents has already been achieved during project preparation.
It is envisaged that the operator could initiate an initial operating phase (IOP) in which he would operate
basically under a management contract and limit his activities to improving performance in the provision
of the water and sewerage services utilizing existing water and sewerage infrastructure, without investing
in expansion. There is a lot that the operator can do to improve the existing systems and performance
before starting to invest in expansion, including installing better commercial and financial systems and
improving tariff collection and the revenue base. After a period of a few years to be determined, the
operator would proceed to the normal operating phase (NOP) during which he would have to provide
financing for the investment program. The project would adopt specific targets for providing services at
affordable rates to the poorest and most vulnerable segments of the population in the area. Since each
private operator would have to carry out significant investments under the water and sewerage contract,
the contract period is envisaged to be at least 20 years, so as to allow time for the recovery of investments.
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project
The project would address primarily two specific sector issues where innovative solutions will be tested.
First, the use of appropriate, low-cost technology to dispose wastewater in a coastal environment that
sustains a growing tourism center, with the goal of reducing the existing negative impacts of pollution on
surface water, groundwater and the bathing areas in the sea caused by inadequate discharge of untreated
sewage. Second, the use of a new institutional model in the Dominican Republic in which water and
sewerage services are managed by the private sector.
4. Learning and innovation expectations
1- I Economic    [ ] Financial    [X] Technical   [X] Institutional
[   Social    [ ] Participation  [ ] Other      t ] Environmental
Technical innovation
The technical innovative strategic choice for this project is the use of small-diameter submarine outfalls
as part of a system for safe and economic disposal of wastewater. This approach takes advantage of the
ocean as the most adequate receptor body of wastewater in coastal cities of small and medium size in the
Dominican Republic. Furthermore, the coastal configuration in the Dominican Republic is such that
depths larger than 200 ft. can be found close to the shores. These depths, combined with the prevailing
temperature-salinity profiles in the pilot area, confirm that the choice of outfalls is the most adequate.
However, small-diameter outfalls have not been used in small and medium-size tourism centers or
practically anywhere in the Dominican Republic. Small diameter outfalls (of up to 1 meter in diameter)
constructed of high density polyethylene (HDPE), which is the material proposed for construction of the
submarine outfall under the proposed LIL, represents an innovative approach in construction of
submarine outfalls for effluent disposal. HDPE pipes are relatively new in the market. Their use in
construction of submarine outfalls is recent and not very widespread. In the developing world they have
been used mainly in Chile. The use of HDPE for small diameter outfalls changes the concept of design,
the construction method and the cost of the outfall. The HDPE small diameter outfall is a low cost, low
operation and maintenance, appropriate technology for small communities. Since HDPE is a light and
easy to handle material, an outfall made of this material can be prepared and constructed by the
community itself. HDPE outfalls can also be installed within a very short period of time, i.e., from one to
several days, compared to periods of months required for installing other types of outfalls. When sewage
flows outgrow the conveyance capacity of an installed HDPE outfall, the outfall can be re-floated and
used in another site.



Page 5
Design and installation methods of small HDPE outfalls have not yet been documented. As part of the
innovative approach of this LIL, a design manual for the use of that type of outfalls in developing
countries will be prepared in cooperation with PAHO under the proposed LIL project, and the experience
of the design and implementation of the outfall under the LIL will be disseminated in the Dominican
Republic so as to facilitate the use of this technology in other tourism centers and in other coastal cities in
the country.
The town of Sosua has been selected as the pilot area for the application of the small diameter outfall
technology. An important factor for the selection of Sosua as a pilot case was the high potential for
success and positive impact on the coastal environment. This is due to the fact that construction of the
sewage collection system in Sosua is almost complete and the network covers 70% of the town, but it is
not operational because a significant portion of the sewage conveyance pipe that connects the network
and the treatment plant has not been constructed yet.
Institutional innovation
The institutional strategic choice for this project is the use, for the first time in tourism centers or
elsewhere in the Dominican Republic, of the private sector for the management of water and sewerage
services. Given the conditions in the Dominican Republic, the Government and the Bank agreed that only
the private sector would be able to provide the management capacity and cost-recovery approach needed
for the provision of a high level and sustainable water and sewerage services.
The Private Sector Participation model, for water and sewerage services, is the innovative institutional
aspect of the LIL project since such a model has not yet been used in tourism areas in the Dominican
Republic or anywhere else in the Caribbean.
The area selected for the pilot case to test the design and implementation of the PSP model is Puerto
Plata/Sosua/Cabarete. This area was selected as a pilot case for the following reasons: (i) this area
includes the pilot site selected for implementation of the technically innovating outfall; (ii) this region has
the largest population (including communities surrounding the hotels) of all tourism centers in the
country, and would, therefore, be the most attractive region for the private sector, with the highest
perspectives of success, (iii) there are strong partnerships and cooperation in the region between local
institutions, such as the community, local development associations, hotel owners, and the Chamber of
Commerce, who strongly support the Government's initiative and are committed to cooperate, which will
facilitate the success of involving the private sector in the provision of the services; and (iv) the region
has abundant water resources, making the potential for conflicts among water users minimal, and ensuring
reliable water supply, which is a basic requirement for the involvement of the private sector. If
successful, the model can serve as the basis for similar institutional management of water and sewerage
services in other tourism centers in the country.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components
See Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown.
Component              Category      Cost Incl.   % of      Bank-      % of
Contingencie   Total   financing    Bank-
s (US$M)              (US$M)   financing
1 Construction of the wastewater   Physical         4.28      56.7      1.99      46
conveyance system, treatment
installations and submarine
outfall for Sosua
2. Preparation and implementation  Institutional    0.46       6.1       0.46     100
of the PSP model for the     Building
provision of water supply and
sewerage services in the Puerto
PlatalSosualCabarete region
3. Monitoring of the coastal   Institutional        0.56       7.4      0.56      100
environment before and after    Building
the construction of the outfall
4. Training and dissemination of   Institutional    0.21       2.8      0.21      100
the technology of small-     Building
diameter outfalls for wastewater
disposal (in partnership with
PAHO) and of PSP processes
development experience
5. Establishment and support to    Institutional    0.11       1.4      0.11      100
the mechanism for control and    Building
supervision of the operation
contract
6. Proj'ect management and design  Project          1.62      21.5       1.62     100
Management
Taxes                                             0.26       3.5       0.00       0
Front-end Fee                                       0.05       0.6       0.05     100
Total        7.55     100.0       5.00      66
Project Component I - Construction of the wastewater conveyance system, treatment installations and
submarine outfall for Sosua
This pilot component in the northern coast includes: (i) the connection of the existing sewage collection
network to the treatment plant (including the construction of the necessary pumping stations along the
connection line); (ii) addition of preliminary treatment installations upfront of the Upflow Anaerobic
Sludge Blanket (UASB) wastewater treatment plant which is under the final stage of construction by
INAPA, with a bypass arrangement which would permit bypassing the USAB plant when operation
problems occur; and (iii) the construction of a submarine outfall of 24" diameter, about 600 meters long,
with a diffuser submerged at a water depth of 140 meters, for disposal of the effluent to the ocean.
INAPA will finance and construct the remaining 25% of civil works needed for completion of the USAB
plant. However, some equipment required for operation of the plant will be financed under the project.



Page 7
Project Component 2 - Preparation and implementation of the PSP process for the provision of water
supply and sewerage services in the Puerto Plata!Sosua/Cabarete region.
This component includes: (i) the preparation of bidding documents and draft contract for the selection and
contracting of private operators to manage the water and sewerage services in the pilot region; (ii)
technical support to the Government during the proposals evaluation and the operator selection process,
contract negotiation and signing; (iii) technical support during the design of control and auditing
mechanisms to regulate the contracts; and (iv) monitoring and evaluation of the PSP preparation and
implementation process to identify lessons that could be used in similar processes in other tourism
centers. The preparation of this component has been initiated during project preparation and will be
completed during implementation. To enable its completion, the Government has agreed to hire a
consulting firm which would assist in carrying out the pre-qualification and bidding processes for
selecting the operator, evaluating the proposals and negotiating the contract.
Project Component 3 - Monitoring of the coastal environment before and after the construction of the
outfall
This component would provide information to test the effectiveness of the small-diameter submarine
outfall. The objective of this component would be to monitor key indicator variables of the coastal
environment and their effect on disposed wastewater (mixing, diffusion, dilution, bacteria decay, water
quality, analysis of sea bottom sediments at the vicinity of the outfall diffuser) to ensure that pathogenic
coliforms discharged through the outfall diffuser do not reach bathing areas, and to measure the
environmental benefits related to the use of this technology in the pilot site. It is important to note that
outfalls often result in generating less negative environmental impact than predicted because of the
conservative assumptions used in the modeling of complex hydrodynamic coastal systems.
Project Component 4 - Training and dissemination of the technology of small-diameter outfalls for
wastewater disposal
This component would include activities to disseminate lessons learned through the implementation of
this LIL project. The objective of this component, to be implemented in partnership with PAHO, is to use
the pilot area as a case study for dissemination of the small-diameter outfalls as a viable technology for
small and medium-size coastal tourism centers. The dissemination activities would include the
preparation of a small-diameter outfall manual, under the sponsorship of PAHO and the World Bank,
which is expected to have ample distribution worldwide. Additionally, the experiences learned in the
pilot area would be disseminated through two workshops. The first workshop would present the outfall
technology to government officials, local authorities, the local consulting engineers community,
representatives of the hotel and tourism sector, environmental NGOs, and community organizations,
especially from other tourism centers. The second workshop would take place during construction of the
outfall in Sosua to illustrate construction techniques and transfer of technology to interested parties in the
country and participants from other countries in the region interested in small-diameter outfalls. PAHO
would participate in the coordination of the two workshops and the transfer of technology. PAHO will
also be invited to participate in the review of the design of the outfall, and provide input and comments,
as well as to participate in the preparation and implementation of the monitoring program.
Project Component 5 - Establishment and provision of technical and financial support to the mechanism
for control and supervision operation contract
Since a regulation entity does not exist yet in the Dominican Republic, a specific mechanism for
supervision and control of the operation contract needs to be developed. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the Government would submit a proposal regarding the control and supervision mechanism
which would be under the responsibility of INAPA (see Annex 10). Technical and financial support
would be provided under the project to carry out the detailed design and make it operational and active.
The control and supervision activity would also include control of the required environmental aspects,
i.e., environmental supervision and inspection of the operator, after he takes over.



Page 8
Project Component 6 - Project management and design
This component would support project management activities carried out by the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) in the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (see page 10). These activities include: hiring
of all consulting services to carry out the studies required for preparation and design of the project;
preparation of bidding documents for purchase of goods and equipment and implementation of works;
coordination of work implementation with INAPA; coordination of the project Advisory Committee that
will be consulted about various aspects of the PSP model (see page 10), and financial management of the
project. A series of studies will be included under this component such as oceanographic studies, detailed
design of the submarine outfall and additional system components (collectors, pumping stations and
preliminary treatment installations), supervision of works, etc. To enable the PCU to cope with all its
tasks, the Government has agreed that it will receive the support of a consulting firm which would be
hired to help in managing and implementing the project, including the preparation, management and
carrying out of all the procurement processes and handling the financial management of the project.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The project would support, on a pilot basis, three key policy and institutional reforms: (i) private sector
participation in the provision of water and sewerage services in the Puerto PlatalSosua/Cabarete region;
(ii) change of INAPA's functions and responsibilities in water and sewerage services; and (iii) change of
the role of the Government in infrastructure development and public service provision in the pilot tourism
centers. These pilot institutional reforms could form the basis for wider sector reforms.
Private sector participation in water and sewerage services
The Government and the sector agencies have agreed on a reform process for the water and sanitation
sector that includes, among other changes, the participation of the private sector in the management of
water and sewerage services. Currently, a Technical Cooperation program is being developed with
support from IDB and the Spanish Government, to propose an institutional and regulatory framework for
the water and sanitation sector including provisions to allow PSP, along with modifications to the
corporate structure of INAPA, CAASD, and CORAASAN. A similar reform has been proposed by the
Dominican League of Municipalities (Liga Municipal Dominicana - LMD) for the solid waste sector.
Given the implementation program for this wastewater disposal in tourism centers project, it is expected
that the contract for private sector participation in the pilot area will be signed before the Framework Law
for the regulatory and institutional reform is approved by the Congress. The learning and innovation
process from the pilot area in Puerto Plata/SosualCabarete will provide lessons that could be incorporated
in the national framework aimed at promoting private sector participation in the provision of water and
sewerage services. It provides, in effect, the first step in defining the reform of the water sector in the
country. This reform is based on removing from the authority of INAPA all the towns which are
potentially self-sufficient and transferring the responsibility for provision of services in these towns to the
private sector. INAPA will continue to function mainly in the rural sector and non tourist areas which
cannot achieve self-sufficiency and need government subsidy to ensure viability.
Change of INAPA's functions and responsibilities in water and sewerage services
Currently, INAPA has the responsibility to manage and operate water and sanitation facilities in the
Dominican Republic, with the exception of Santo Domingo and Santiago metropolitan areas. As part of
this project, INAPA would transfer the management and operation responsibilities to a private sector
operator in the pilot area. The role of INAPA would change to that of inspection, control and
enforcement of the contract signed with the private operator. Therefore, the institutional component of
the project constitutes the first step towards a reform in the water and sewerage sector in the country.



Page 9
Change of the role of the Government in infrastructure development and public service provision in the
pilot tourism centers
The low level in the provision of service in the water, sewerage and solid waste services has prompted the
private sector in the tourism industry to make their own investments and set up private mechanisms to
ensure better services. The Government intends to reverse this trend of independent and sub-optimal
solutions caused by deficient municipal services. The Government strategy is to test an institutional
reform in the pilot area that allows broader and more cost-effective solutions and includes not only the
hotels but also the surrounding communities in tourism centers. The LIL project would provide important
lessons needed to define the necessary infrastructure and the adequate institutional reforms to support the
needs of the growing tourism industry and communities surrounding the resorts.
3. Benefits and target population
The major direct benefits of this project would be: (i) learning and demonstrating that feasible technical
and institutional approaches can be defined to reduce urban pollution caused by inadequate provision of
water and sewerage services, and to reverse environmental degradation in the coastal environment; (ii)
reducing public health threats to residents and tourists; and (iii) developing a PSP model for the first time
in the water sector in the Dominican Republic. One important indirect benefit of this project would be a
strong signal to the private sector of the commitment of the Government to provide the necessary
infrastructure and institutional framework to support the growth of the tourism industry, while at the same
time protecting the natural resources that sustain this industry. It could also be a signal of the
Government's approach to support private sector involvement in the management of public services.
The private participation would have a positive effect on the poor population residing in the area covered
by the PSP contract, which at present receives deficient services. Indeed, the target population that would
receive the main benefits are the urban poor living in the tourism centers selected for the pilot case. The
center selected for the technical innovation is Sosua (population: about 20,000 in 1998 and 35,000
projected in 2010). The beneficiaries in the short-term would include the part ofthe population that has
not been connected to the existing sewage network, even if they live in an area covered by the network,
because of the lack of an adequate disposal mechanism. The region selected for the institutional
innovation of the project is Puerto Plata/Sosua/Cabarete (total population: about 178,000 in 1998 and
240,000 projected in 2010). The transfer of management of the water and sewerage services to a private
operator is expected to bring significant benefits to this region, defined by specific expansion targets and
schedule which would be incorporated in the contract.
A study will be prepared within the framework of the PSP model with two purposes: (i) to increase
service provision to the poor population and to include service coverage to the poor as performance
targets; and (ii) to assess the extent and size of subsidies to be included in the tariff systems to address the
issue of the capacity of the poor to pay for water (either Government subsidies through financing part of
the infrastructure, or cross subsidies, mainly subsidies from the hotel sector to the poor population).
Another beneficiary group of this project would be the hotels located in the project area and the visiting
tourists. Without this goverDment-led program, some hotels have already, and most will eventually, be
forced to find individual (and in most cases sub-optimal) solutions to their service needs. This LIL
project would support the reforms to reverse this trend. If successful, the technical and institutional
innovations of this project would provide the support to reduce environmental degradation and to provide
the necessary services to the growing tourism industry. The Puerto Plata/SosualCabarete region has
currently about 15,200 hotel rooms and is projected to have 23,500 rooms in 2010.
In summary, the project would benefit the fixed and floating population of Puerto PlatalSosualCabarete,
with a current total of about 220,000 inhabitants and a projection of 360,000 inhabitants in 2010.



Page 10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation period
FYOO - FY 03 (3 years)
Project Administration and Coordination
The Borrower is the Government of the Dominican Republic. The PCU in the Technical Secretariat of
the Presidency will be responsible for project coordination and implementation. Project components I
and 2 will be implemented in consultation with and collaboration of INAPA. The final design, based on
the feasibility studies which were prepared by foreign consultants hired by the PCU, and the supervision
of works would be implemented in close cooperation with INAPA while financed by the LIL project (the
incentive structure that promotes construction of new projects has made INAPA a good executing agency
for works, even if its track record for operation and maintenance is weak). According to the
implementation plan, the private sector operator would be selected before the completion of project
component I (construction of the outfall). However, if the private operator had already been hired when
the implementation of works took place, the operator would be involved in the supervision of all the on-
shore works (main conveyance system, pumping stations, treatment installations), while the supervision
of the outfall works (on-shore and off-shore) would be awarded to a specialized consulting firm.
The preparation of component 2 (PSP process) has already been initiated during project preparation and
will be completed during implementation. To enable the PCU to cope with all its tasks, the Government
has agreed that it will receive the support of a consulting firm which will be hired to help in managing and
implementing the project, including the preparation, nmnagement and carrying out of all the procurement
processes and handling the financial management of the project, and a consulting firm, possibly the same,
to assist in carrying out the pre-qualification and bidding processes for selecting the operator, evaluating
the proposals and negotiating the contract.
An Advisory Committee, with representatives from the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, INAPA
and other potential stakeholders, with functions and representations satisfactory to the Bank, will be set
up and consulted to provide its opinion at various stages of the bidding process. The Bank project team
considers that the PCU and the committee need support in coordinating the PSP process. For that purpose
the Government needs to (i) nominate a director for the PSP process and (ii) hire a consulting firm to
assist the process of contracting the private operator as mentioned above.
If unexpected delays were experienced in the selection and take over of responsibility by the private
sector, tNAPA would continue to operate the facilities in the transition period. This arrangement would
allow to reduce pollution of the coastal environment once the outfall is completed, even if the
implementation of the new institutional arrangement is delayed
Project component 5, related to the mechanism of control and supervision of the operator's contract, will
be proposed and developed jointly with the Government.
Procurement
Works wholly or partly funded by IBRD will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and 11A Credits (published in January 1995; revised in September 1997
and January 1999). Consulting services wholly or partly financed by IBRD will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999). The PCU will use
Standard Bidding Documents published by the Bank for preparation of bidding documents for works and
goods to be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and for Requests for Proposals and
consulting services contracts. Detailed project procurement arrangements are given in Annex 6.



Page 1 1
To strengthen the capacity of the PCU to manage the project and handle procurement, a specialized
consulting firm will be hired, as mentioned above. This firm would have expertise in the implementation
of water and sewerage projects and in the Bank's procurement procedures and it would provide: (i)
assistance in all the stages of procurement cycles which will be implemented under the project; (ii)
training in procurement; (iii) supervision and quality assurance; and (iv) procurement capacity building.
For the preparation of the PSP model in the Puerto Plata/Sosua/Cabarete region, the PCU has hired, as
part of project preparation activities, a multi-disciplinary group of international consultants to prepare
technical analyses and specifications, bidding documents and a draft PSP contract. The related activities
and the carrying out of the process of selecting the operator will be completed during project
implementation, with the help of the above-mentioned consulting firm which will be hired for that
purpose. The Government agreed that procedures for selecting the private operator will be undertaken
according to Bank guidelines. In addition, the Government does not accept that the operator will use his
own procurement procedure for the construction of the installations specified in his contract and insists on
use of public bidding procedure according to the Bank procurement guidelines for works financed by the
Bank.
Project financial management and auditing
A project financial management assessment was carried out by a Financial Management Specialist from
LCOAA. As part of this exercise, an action plan to establish a Financial Management (FM) system,
including capability to produce quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) was agreed upon. A
follow-up mission in October 1999 concluded that, with the help of a specialized consulting firm, most of
the key elements of the Action Plan had been met by this date. The FM system was considered to meet
minimum Bank requirements; however, the computerized system still needs to be fed with relevant inputs
and finalized, the audit firm was yet to be contracted, and a new Special Account (as opposed to those
used for PHRD and PPF funds) would have to be opened prior to loan effectiveness. Once fully
operational, the computerized system will enable the preparation of PMRs and thus - assuming that other
key elements remain in place - the project will be able to disburse via PMRs (the PCU Director agreed to
avail the project to PMR-based disbursements.) The consulting firm which will be hired to help in project
mnanagement, will also provide assistance to the PCU on financial management as necessary. Prior to or
shortly after effectiveness, an independent accounting firm would be engaged to carry out the covenanted
yearly audit, in accordance with terms of reference approved by the Bank.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Technical alternatives
The technical innovative aspect of this project is the use of outfalls for cost-effective, environmentally
safe disposal of wastewater. When compared to conventional treatment plants in the pilot area selected
for this LIL project, the outfall presents clear advantages(l): (i) smaller costs for similar levels of
environmental protection because depths greater than 200 ft can be found close to the shore and the
oceanographic conditions are optimal for outfalls; (ii) the initial 1:100 dilution usually obtained with the
diffusers of submarine outfalls is much greater than typical reductions of nutrients and organic matter
obtained with conventional secondary treatment; (iii) the mortality rates of bacteria after the initial
dilution in outfalls can reduce the pathogens to levels similar, or lower, than those obtained with
chlorinating effluents from secondary treatment plants; (iv) outfalls are more flexible than treatment
' Emisarios Submarinos: Altemativa Viable para la Disposici6n de Aguas Negras de Ciudades Costeras en America
Latina y el Caibe. CEPIS, Pan-American Health Organization, 1994.



Page 12
plants to manage the highly seasonal flows typical of tourism centers; (v) the operation and maintenance
of outfalls is much simpler and less costly than those of conventional secondary treatment plants, which
are usually inadequately operated in Dominican Republic and, consequently, result in polluting the
environment despite expensive investments; and (vi) if the environmental monitoring program of project
component 3 indicates that the beaches are being polluted by the outfall discharges, despite model
predictions used in the outfall design, additional sewage treatment installations can be incorporated in the
system prior to effluent discharge through the outfall. This approach constitutes a cost-effective strategy,
minimizing investments to achieve the project's environmental and health objectives.
Institutional alternatives
The Government and the water sector institution INAPA agreed with the Bank's position that onlv the
participation of the private sector in the provision of the sanitation services can effectively prevent the
environmental crisis in tourism centers and the potential negative effect on the tourism industry. The
alternative of a strengthening program for INAPA was analyzed but it was considered that the time
required to achieve efficient operation, implement cost-recovery mechanisms, and reach the required
investment levels would not be compatible with the urgent needs of a growing tourism sector.
This wastewater disposal LIL project is closely related to a solid waste management in tourism centers
LIL. Both of these LIL projects would support the design and implementation of an adequate PSP model.
Three possible approaches were considered for the provision of water, sewerage and solid waste services:
(i) completely separated private sector operators for water/sewerage and solid waste; (ii) separate
operators for water/sewerage and solid waste with an agreement between them to organize a common
billing process; and (iii) a single private operator for all three services.
Although having a single operator would offer the obvious advantages of (i) having only one bidding
process to organize, and (ii) allowing a simultaneous billing and revenue collection process for all three
services where the single operator can use the leverage given by the possibility of water service
disconnection to increase the percentage of bill payment for the three services, the Government
considered that it was not the best alternative for the following reasons: (i) it does not lend itself to the
local situation where the mayors have indicated their willingness to support some sort of PSP for the
collection of solid waste, but whose participation in the process and internal decision making process are
likely to require a different timetable and arrangements than for the water and sewerage services, for
which the PSP process could be launched earlier; (ii) it would lengthen and complicate the bidding
process since the PSP contracts would most probably have a different duration, and (iii) it would decrease
competition in each process.
The alternative of contracting separate operators for water/sewerage and solid waste services, but using a
single bill for all three services to be charged through the water company, will be discussed with the
future operators. However, in the past, INAPA was asked to charge for solid waste services handled by
the municipalities and found that bill payments were significantly reduced in response to increases in
solid waste rates since users refused to pay the combined bill. On the other hand, a private operator
should be in a better position to implement the commercial operation and the tariff increase strategy and
justify it by the improved quality of service. Nevertheless, for the reason above, this solution will not be
imposed but will be discussed with the private water and sewerage operator.
Therefore, the institutional arrangement selected is to launch two separate PSP processes for the
management of water and sewerage services on the one hand, and for solid waste services on the other
hand by private operators in the pilot Puerto Plata/Sosua/Cabarete region, while leaving open the
possibility to establish contractual arrangements between the operators to organize a common billing
process. Naturally, bidders to the water and sewerage process, including the selected operator, will be
allowed to participate to the solid waste process.



Page 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Sector issue                   Project               Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed rojects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Tourism Development       DO-PE-6982: Puerto Plata               S               S
Tourism                          Completed in
1979
Tourism Development       DO-PE-6986: Tourism II                 S               S
Completed in
1984
Environmental Protection  DO-PE-35733: National                  S               S
Environmental Policy Reform
Project
Watershed Management      DO-PE-7020: Irrigated land and         S               S
watershed project
Water, Sanitation and Solid   DO-PE-54221: Water and        In preparation
Waste Management          sanitation in tourism centers
project
Solid Waste Management    DO-PE-595 11: Solid waste        In preparation
management in tourism centers
LIL project
Other developrzent agencies
IDB                       Consolidation of the reform and    Beginning
modernization in potable water    implementation
and sanitation
UNDP                      GEF/Coastal Zone management    Implementation
UNDP                      GEF/Bio-diversity protection    Implementation
EC                        Sanitation of poor neighborhoods   In preparation
in the North of Santo Domingo
French Agency for         Installation of pressure reducing    In preparation
Development               valves in the Santo Domingo water
distribution network
JICA                      Environmental Sanitation of the    In preparation
principal nine municipalities of the
southern region of the Dominican
Republic (solid waste management
equipment)                                      _
Ell,T)() Ratinigs: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), tJ (Unsatisfactory), HIJ (Hghly Unsatisfactory)



Page 14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The project design reflects lessons that have been learned from the execution of a variety of
Bank-supported projects in the water and sanitation sector and projects in the Dominican Republic, as
well as preliminary lessons from LIL projects. The lessons on LIL project design include: (i) the
preparation and results of the piloting LIL effort should be synchronized with the rest of the subsequent
follow-up programs; (ii) the investments included in the LIL should be small, discrete and able to be
implemented in a short period of time; (iii) supervision in a LIL project needs to be intense; (iv)
dissemination of results and broad participation should be a key consideration of LIL projects.
Lessons learned in the Dominican Republic indicate that successful implementation is closely associated
with: (i) obtaining strong government commitment; (ii) designing simple projects with focused and
modest objectives; (iii) close and periodic evaluation of the project to allow adjustments to be made to the
project design and its implementation arrangements; (iv) because of usual time delays in getting approval
from the Congress, it is important to have ownership and commitment from different stakeholders in the
Government, the hotel sector, and the communities; (v) maintaining an open and productive dialogue with
the Borrower to ensure close collaboration with the project executing agency, to facilitate finding
solutions to problems that emerge during project implementation, and to incorporate lessons in the design
of the follow-up program; and (vi) maintaining intensive technical, procurement and managerial Bank
supervision during project implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
As part of the overall strategy at the national level to protect natural resources and the coastal
environment, the Government has signed and is implementing a National Environmental Policy Reform
Project with Bank support.
The Government has created and staffed the PCU in the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency for
project implementation and agreed to hire a specialized consulting firm to help it manage and implement
the project. Additionally, it has signed a PH-RD and a PPF for the preparation of the two LILs and the
potential SIL, and to ensure incorporation of lessons learned and replicable aspects of the innovative
approaches taken, into subsequent operations. The borrower has underlined its strong level of interest to
pursue this LIL project, if successful, with further Bank support through a potential Sector Investment
Loan (SIL) operation in the water and sanitation sector, if the Bank agreed to do so.
The innovative institutional aspect of this project has the full support of the Government in general and of
INAPA in particular. First, INAPA has already signed a letter of commitment to transfer to the private
sector the management of water supply and sewerage services in the selected area. Second, the
Government confirmed during negotiations its agreement to transfer the management of water and
sanitation services in the region to a private operator and the legal opinion received from the Consultoria
Juridica to the Executive Power confirmed that the Government is authorized to do so. Third, the Mayors
of Puerto Plata and Sosua have expressed their support to the PSP approach in the water and sewerage
sector. Fourth, ASONAHORES has reiterated its interest in prompt preparation and implementation of
this project and has offered its support to promote in the Congress fast loan approval. Finally, all
Government agencies are providing full support to the team of international consultants hired by the PCU
to prepare the project.



Page 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The value added of Bank support in this project lies in: (i) worldwide experience in the preparation and
implementation of PSP in the provision of municipal services; (ii) role as an independent broker among
different Government agencies (from the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency and national water and
sanitation institutions to the Mayors) to promote private sector participation as an effective approach to
water, sewerage and solid wastes service provision in the Dominican Republic; (iii) strong technical
support for an environmentally safe and cost-effective strategy for wastewater treatment and disposal; (iv)
partnership with PAHO to disseminate the lessons learned from the LIL project in the Dominican
Republic and other countries with similar conditions in the region; (v) experience in environmental
protection and coastal zone management; and (vi) support in project management and implementation
arrangements, as well as procurement and disbursement procedures which would ensure successful
implementation of the project. Supervision missions would be tailored to provide Bank know-how on
these and other relevant topics as appropriate.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic analysis (See Annex 4)
A simplified cost-benefit analysis was carried out to determine the economic viability of the proposed
wastewater disposal investment in Sosua. In view of the limited economic information available and of
the pilot character of the Learning and Innovation Loan, the cost-benefit analysis focuses on the two main
beneficiaries of the project: (i) the local population which will benefit from improved sewerage services
and (ii) the tourism industry which will benefit from the better quality and cleanliness of coastal areas.
A comprehensive economic model was developed which also included the financial assessment (see
below), adjusting financial flows of costs and benefits for the impact of taxes, subsidy and management
fee. In addition, while the financial assessment determines the viability of the reform program as
proposed by the Government, the economic analysis estimates the net economic benefits generated by the
wastewater disposal project on an incremental basis, comparing the costs and benefits of a "with project"
scenario to the costs and benefits of a "without project" scenario. In the "with project" scenario, the
wastewater disposal investment is implemented, which requires the construction and maintenance of the
wastewater conveyance system, treatment installation, submarine outfall and connecting network to the
collection pipes in Sosua. In the "without project" scenario, the sewerage investment in Sosua is not
made, so that coastal degradation is allowed to continue in the area.
The main benefits of the project considered in the analysis include: (i) provision of sewerage services in
Sosua, and (ii) improvement in the local coastal environment, which should avoid losses in tourism
revenues generated in the region. Although the improved hygienic conditions that result from the
provision of sewerage services and the learning and demonstration effect that a low cost technology is
feasible to reverse environmental degradation along the coast are clearly benefits, they have not been
quantified in the analysis.
To measure the economic benefits resulting from the provision of sewerage services in Sosua,
willingness-to-pay estimates derived from a consultant's study carried out in July 1999 were used. The
benefits to the local tourism industry were proxied by estimates of the expected loss in tourism revenues
if coastal degradation was allowed to continue. They also took into account the savings that hotels would
make as they will be released from having to provide their own collection and treatment facilities.
Finally, the increased tourists' satisfaction was measured by their willingness to pay for an improved
coastal environment as estimated by the same consultant's study.



Page 16
The analysis highlights that the wastewater disposal unit, providing sewerage services in Sosua and
avoiding further coastal degradation, creates substantial economic value-added. An independent analysis
conducted by a consultant to the Government of the Dominican Republic arrived to a similar conclusion.
2. Financial assessment (See Annex 5)
Objectives
A financial assessment of the future water and sewerage private operations was carried out in order to (i)
assess the financial feasibility of the future private operations under the conditions proposed in the draft
bidding documents, (ii) assess the debt service capacity of the private operations and (iii) determine the
main risk factors and the sensitivity to these factors of the overall feasibility of the PSP process.
The debt service capacity of the private operations has been analyzed although the private operator is not
the direct beneficiary of the Bank's loan extended to the Government. Such analysis is however part of
the general assessment of the financial strength of the private operator and is also justified by the fact that
the latter could receive a Government loan originated in the future Bank SIL loan in the case the latter
was granted.
Methodology
The financial assessment determines the viability of the PSP program as proposed by the Government in
the draft bidding documents and after construction of the proposed wastewater disposal system in Sosua
("with project" scenario only). The private operation company is considered financially viable when (i)
the Net Present Value (NPV) of the utility's free cash flows is positive, (ii) the net returns to private
investors are sufficient and (iii) the main financial indicators of the utility (debt to equity ratio, current
ratio, debt service ratio) are expected to remain sound throughout the PSP contract.
A comprehensive financial model was built which projects the private operating company's cash flows
over the expected PSP period. As the PSP process has not taken place yet, financial projections were
prepared based on the physical and operational targets, financial conditions, tariff structure, etc set forth
in the draft bidding contract, on the basis of detailed analyses by individual consultants.
Results of the financial analysis
The financial analysis shows that the future private operations are financially viable under the terms set
forth by the Government. The Government intents to award the PSP contract on the basis of the weighted
sum of (i) the amount of investment subsidy the private operator could require from the Government and
(ii) the amount of World Bank loan the private operator could request to be on-lent to the PSP company
from the Government. As a result of the high investment costs made necessary to reach the expansion
targets set forth in the draft bidding document, it cannot be excluded that bidders will require some sort of
subsidy from the Government in order to achieve a sufficient return on investment while carrying out all
the required network investments. The analysis indicates that their operations can be viable without
subsidy from the Government, but under the strict conditions that collection rates improve drastically and
rapidly (from less than 50% today to about 90% in a few years) and that tariffs can be increased
sufficiently (as described in Annex 5).
Consultants provided reassurance that (i) if collection rates are so low at present it is because people are
not charged for the water they consume rather than because they do not pay their water bill and (ii) the
willingness to pay for water services will improve strongly as the quality of service improves under the
management of the private operator. Nevertheless, the required increase in collection rate is substantial.
Given the history of low collection rates in the area in spite of the low level of current tariffs, it is unlikely
that bidders will not want to make the bet that collection rates will improve substantially and rapidly
despite the required increase in tariffs, without negotiating some additional financial comfort from the
Government to protect their revenues from the risk that collection rates do not improve sufficiently.



Page 17
Analyses show that there is room to provide such comfort by allowing the operator to maximize operating
efficiency. However, it cannot be excluded that the local circumstances prevent such higher performance
to be achieved, in which case the operator would most probably request a direct subsidy from the
Government, possibly tied to the implementation of required investments or conditional on achieved
collection rates. If such comfort was not granted to the operator one way or the other, the risk could not
be excluded that he would not be in a position to finance all required investments.
The analysis underlines the importance of educating the population to the necessity of paying for the
future improved water and sewerage services. It also underlines the necessity to provide adequate
protection for the poorest and most vulnerable segments of the population in order to make sure that the
new tariffs remain affordable to them. If necessary, cross- or direct subsidies would be used.
The sensitivity and risk analyses confirm that the viability of the private operations depends naturally on
the rate of return expected by investors and is dependent on other critical assumptions including (i) future
revenue collection rates, (ii) future personnel productivity, (iii) operation and maintenance costs, (iv)
investment costs (v) exchange rate fluctuations and (vi) terms of financing available for investments.
3. Technical analysis
The Sosua sewerage network covers about 70% of the city, but it is not operational because the main
conveyance system that connects the network to the treatment plant has not been constructed. As a
consequence, houses are not connected to the sewerage network and raw sewage flows to the Sosua bay
or infiltrates into the soil and contaminates the groundwater. A treatment plant with a capacity of
attending the current flows for the Sosua wastewater, is currently under construction by INAPA and 80%
of the works have already been completed. According to the current plans the effluent is to be discharged
on the shoreline at a distance of about 2-km from the Sosua bay. This plant has the capacity of removing
about 50% of the BOD of the incoming sewage, but it cannot remove pathogenic organisms.
Consequently, the usefulness of the plant would be limited and the adopted method of effluent discharge
on the beach is inadequate and may result in continued pollution of the Sosua bay.
An analysis of options for adequate discharge of the effluent revealed that discharge to the sea through a
submarine outfall is the most cost-effective solution in this case. Injection to the local aquifer is not a
good option because groundwater is a water supply source for the region. There is no demand for
agricultural or other type of effluent rPCUse in the area, so only the sea can serve as the receiving water
body for the effluent, which would be discharged to it through a submarine outfall.
The strategy adopted under the project is to provide the minimal level of treatment to the wastewater and
at the same time to provide a long enough outfall which would ensure that contamination will not reach
bathing beaches and would have a minimal negative environmental impact. The validity of the strategy
would be tested by employing a monitoring program prior and after the construction of the outfall. If the
outfall performance would not conform to the planned environmental standards, additional treatment
capacity would be added prior to the wastewater discharge through the outfall. This strategy will prevent
carrying out unnecessary investment in costly treatment installations. The monitoring program may also
provide information to prioritize future investments. For example, if the pre-treatment for wastewater to
be discharged through the outfall is sufficient, as planned, and the beach continues to be polluted by
discharges from surface water discharges, it may be more cost-effective and protective of the environment
to extend the wastewater collection network, rather than to provide additional wastewater treatment prior
to outfall discharge.



Page 18
At the PCD stage it was estimated, based on existing data which were available before carrying out
oceanographic studies, that the sea water depth at a distance of 800 meters from the shore at the location
of the UASB treatment plant (denominated the original outfall alignment) was 40 meters, which is an
adequate depth for locating the submerged outfall diffuser and for achieving high physical dilution of the
effluent and sufficient pathogenic organisms die off so as to ensure that pathogenic contamination would
not reach the beaches of Sosua.
Oceanographic measurements carried out during project preparation showed that the bottom topography
at the original outfall alignment is much steeper than originally thought. Discharge of effluent at the
required depth resulted to close to shore would result in pollution of local beaches. On the other hand,
construction of a longer outfall at the original alignment, would entail high construction risks since
discharge depths rarely exceed 70 meters, and working in water deeper than that requires special
equipment.
After studying several alternatives for treatment, including location of the outfall the altemative of
discharging the above-mentioned plant effluent (after adding to this plant pretreatment installations) to the
sea via a deeply submerged diffuser. As mentioned, this would entail high construction risks, especially
for a small diameter outfall, but it was considered that the risk over weights the disadvantages of the
alternative solutions and is well worth taking, especially since it is a LIL project in which innovative
solution are worth piloting.
The proposed outfall is therefore about 600 meters long, i.e., shorter than the one proposed at the PCD
stage. Nevertheless, its cost will be higher than previously estimated because it would have to withhold
higher pressures. The hydraulic design is based on sewage peak flows for the year 2010, with appropriate
safety coefficients. The required outfall diameter would be 635 mm and it is proposed to use HDPE as the
pipe material (a 24-inch nominal pipe). The specific wall thickness and required pipe class would be
determined during detailed design. Due to the high submergence depth of the diffuser, it might be
necessary to use for it (and perhaps also for a portion of the end of the pipe, next to the diffuser) a steel
pipe.
Because of the relative frequent visitation by tropical storms and hurricanes in the Caribbean and the
resulting wave heights, this outfall should receive special protection. Additional soundings to determine
the exact sea bed profile along the outfall, bottom conditions, classification of the material(s) that the sea
bed is comprised of, and more specific information on the wave height and period are necessary to
determine how much and what kind of protection is appropriate for Sosua. This along with detailed
measurements of density profiles and current velocity and direction will enable a final design to be made.
During detailed design, alternative methods for the outfall construction might be explored, such as the use
of trenchless technologies (boring or guided drilling). Usually such methods are more expensive, but they
might result attractive in this case, because of the risk associated with pipe laying on a deep-sea bed.
A long-term ocean monitoring program would be implemented before the outfall construction is
completed in order to have baseline data and continued after the construction of the outfall to provide
information on the outfall performance. In the unlikely case that the outfall performance does not meet
the design expectations, additional treatment stages would be added to the preliminary treatment
installations, as required. The land in the vicinity of the UASB treatment plant is Government property.
Securing the land for possible future use for treatment would be discussed during appraisal and
negotiations.



Page 19
Since the UASB treatment plant is almost complete and INAPA is committed to finishing the facilities
(the construction contract is in effect) it was decided to incorporate the plant in the wastewater
management scheme. Nevertheless, the outfall design is based on the assumption that only preliminary
treatment is provided. The operation requirements of a UASB plant and the poor operational record of
INAPA does not provide enough assurances that the plant would function properly. The performance of
the outfall with the preliminary treatment component (which is very easy to operate) would achieve the
environmental design standards. As wastewater flows increase with time, the preliminary treatment
component would be upgraded to handle them. It is not planned to upgrade the UASB plant as flows
increase, since it does not provide a meaningful additional level of treatment prior to discharge to the sea.
The proposed disposal of the wastewater of Sosua is a cost-effective, simple and reliable disposal option,
which would ensure adequate solution of the current wastewater contamination problem of the city. To
ensure full effectiveness of the proposed or any other disposal method, the majority of the population has
to get connected to the sewerage network. This will not happen overnight, and will require due effort on
the part of the private operator. It seems, however, that most of the population, especially the hotel
owners, are eagerly awaiting to get connected to the sewerage network, once it is put into operation.
4. Institutional arrangements
As explained earlier, the innovative institutional aspect of the wastewater disposal LIL project is the
design and implementation of the PSP model for the provision of water and sewerage services. The
overall project management and coordination would be the responsibility of the PCU in the Technical
Secretariat of the Presidency, which would be assisted by a consulting firm specialized in project
management, procurement and FM and which will follow guidelines described in an Operational Manual
satisfactory to the Bank. In addition, a consulting firm specialized in PSP would be hired to help the
Govemment in carrying out the biding process and selecting the private operator. Also, as described on
page 10, an Advisory Committee, with representatives from the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency,
INAPA and other project stakeholders will be set up and consulted at various stages of the bidding
process.
The implementation of project component I in Sosua will be done in close cooperation with INAPA. The
strength of INAPA in project management and construction, along with the experience of the consulting
firm would ensure successful implementation of this component.
5. Social assessment
The effects of a growing tourism industry on the coastal environment can have significant and
long-lasting social repercussions. This project would test innovative technical and institutional solutions
to reduce social and health impacts directly related to the inadequate management, treatment, and disposal
of wastewater and the resulting pollution on the coastal environment. Nevertheless, based on the initial
findings of the social assessment a social development strategy will be tested during the LIL to ensure to
target poor population and promote community participation. This strategy will include:
Targeting the poor: a study will be prepared within the framnework of the PSP model with two purposes:
(i) to increase service provision to the poor population and to include service coverage to the poor as
performance targets; and (ii) to assess the extent and size of subsidies to be included in the tariff systems
to address the issue of the capacity of the poor to pay for water (either Government subsidies through
financing part of the infrastructure, or cross subsidies, mainly subsidies from the hotel sector to the poor
population).



Page 20
Promoting willingness to pay: better payment mechanisms will be set up to promote willingness to pay
including a simplified billing system, incentives for community organizations to promote payment among
their members and education campaigns.
1'romoting community participation: a Community Service Unit will be established as part of the
operator's management structure to promote community participation including in improving the service,
incorporating best maintenance practices and managing conflicts with actual and potential clients.
Community Ownership: complementary programs to promote ownership among beneficiaries will be
implemented through community organizations such as on adequate use of water and sanitation services,
health and payment for the services. Women, who have proved to play a critical role in sanitary projects,
will be a specific target of these programs.
Participatory Monitoring System: a participatory monitoring system will be established to ensure quality
in delivering services based on standards agreed with the communities. This process will be designed to
promote compliance on the side of the operator and commitment to pay for the services on the side of the
communities.
Best practices dissemination: an information and dissemination system about the results and effectiveness
of the small-diameter submarine outfall will be implemented. This system, based on the coastal
environmental monitoring, will promote this innovative technique and address any actual or perceived
risks on the side of the communities.
6. Environmental assessment
Environmental Categorv A
[XIA[]B []C
The proposed project is expected to have significant beneficial environmental and health impacts in Sosua
and its surroundings as it will extend and improve the sewage collection network and will provide a safe
wastewater treatment and disposal method that will protect important coastal ecosystems in the area.
Nonetheless, the construction of the main sewage conveyance system, wastewater treatment and other
ancillary facilities, as well as disposal of treated wastewater through a marine outfall has the potential to
cause negative environmental impacts if proper mitigation steps are not taken. For this reason, the project
has been classified as environmental assessment (EA) Category A. A full EA was commissioned under
terms of reference agreed upon with the Bank. Formal Bank review of the final report was carried out
before appraisal and it was found to conform fully to Bank policy guidelines regarding environmental and
social issues. The EA confirmed that no involuntary resettlement will be required under the project.
The environmental assessment process was based on an analysis of alternatives for wastewater treatment
and disposal and assessment of current and dispersion parameters in the disposal site. The water depth at
the selected outfall site and the added pretreatment facilities to an existing wastewater treatment plant,
ensure minimum environmental risks. The EA report has been made available in the Public Information
Center of the World Bank in Washington. A summary of the environmental assessment report is included
in Annex 8.
Status of Category A Assessment
EA start-up date:    December 1998
Date of first EA draft:  April, 1999
Current status:       Completed and reviewed by the Bank



Page 21
Proposed actions
The EA report recommends the implementation of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The
EMP proposes a number of measures to mitigate environmental impacts during the construction and
implementation phases and establishes an organizational structure, set of procedures and a budget to
implement activities under the EMP. The consulting project management firm which will be hired to
assist the PCU to implement the project will be in charge of implementing the activities detailed in the
EMP related to the construction phase. This phase will also include the implementation of an
environmental baseline program to monitor oceanographic, biological and ecological indicators. After
construction, this program will be converted to a long-term monitoring program.
Final engineering designs would include the preparation of detailed measures to deal with contingency
plans (power black outs), additional site-specific environmental guidelines for construction, special
construction practices for reef crossing and ocean approach, demarcation of mix zone, under surface sea
construction process and right of way restoration and management. These measures will be included in
the bidding documents and contracts.
Local groups and NGOs consulted
Asociaci6n de Desarrollo de Sosua, Asociaci6n de Hoteleros.
Resettlement
No involuntary resettlement is expected to take place as a result of the construction of any component of
the facilities to be financed by the project.
Borrower permission to release EA
[X] Yes     [I No    [ ] N/A
7. Participatory approach
The innovative technical and institutional aspects of the project have been discussed with the main
institutional stakeholders in the Dominican Republic, including the Technical Secretariat of the
Presidency, the Secretariat of Tourism, [NAPA, Banco Central, LMD, local authorities (Mayors of Puerto
Plata and Sosua), as well as hotel owners, ASONAHORES, and local development associations and
chambers of commerce. The innovative approach and the location of the pilot case have been supported
by these stakeholders.
Moreover, community consultation was carried out through workshops executed in Puerto Plata, Sosua-
Cabarete and Boca Chica. Community organizations participating in these workshops agreed with the
priority of the project and expressed their willingness to participate. An initial analysis of the capacity of
these organizations indicates that these organizations can play an important role promoting ownership of
the project and carry out complementary programs to ensure the projects success, such as: better sanitary
practices, adequate use of infrastructure and a responsible attitude to promote willingness to pay and
sustainability. To ensure a participatory approach, a social development strategy to promote community
participation will be tested along the LIL implementation and further developed through complementary
analysis and consultation during preparation of the social assessment of a follow-up SIL. In addition, an
Advisory Committee, with representatives from the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency and INAPA
but also potential representatives of other stakeholders, will be set up and consulted to provide its opinion
at various stages of the bidding process. Social goals such as coverage of poor population and tariffs
levels will be factors to be taken into account in the bidding process.



Page 22
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The sustainability of project benefits would be achieved through: (i) use of an innovative technology
which is appropriate for the local conditions and protective of the coastal environment; (ii) Government's
commitment to private sector participation; and (iii) involvement of private operators in providing the
water and sewerage services through contracts which specify performance targets and tariff structure
guidelines. The lessons learned during project design and implementation would be incorporated in the
preparation of any follow-up operation, thereby enhancing the sustainability of the larger initiative at the
national level, if such an initiative is undertaken.
2. Critical Risks
The risks identified below reflect assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1.
Risk                         Risk             Risk Minimnization Measure
Rating
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
If delays occur in signing the contract with the private  M  A letter of commitment for operation during
operator, INAPA does not operate the systems              the transition period has been received from
constructed under the LIL during the transition period    INAPA as a condition of negotiations
(Subsidiary Agreement will follow)
An agreement is not reached with the Govermnent    S      Technical assistance and advisory services will
regarding the mechanism for control and supervision       be provided to the Government to ensure the
of the contract with the private operator                 development of an adequate mechanism
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
The next Government does not honor the agreement   S      Dialogue with the Government, presenting the
to deliver the management of water and sewerage           rationale
services provision to a private operator
The private sector does not response positively to the  M  Draft contracts will be distributed to potentially
proposed PSP contract                                     interested private operators for comments and
assessment of their response to the bidding. If
warranted, comments will be incorporated in
the final version of the bidding documents
The Government does not comply with its agreement  S      The Govermuent comunitted to PSP during
to transfer the management of water anid sewerage         negotiations and a policy letter of the
services to the private sector                            Government on the principles of privatization
for water and sewerage services was received
prior to negotiations.
The legal opinion received from the
Consultoria Juridica to the Executive Power
confirmed that the Govermuaent is authorized to
transfer the management of water and
sanitation services to a private operator.



Page 23
An agreement on water and sewerage services tariff  S      As part of a complete tariff study, discussions
structure and level is not reached with INAPA and the      will be held with INAPA regarding the
other local players                                        proposed tariff level and structure.
ASONAHORES, NGOs and coninunity
organizations will participate in the
discussions. The Advisory Committee will be
involved in the discussions
INAPA and the new private operator cannot manage    S      Specific targets would be included in service
successfully the process of house and hotel                contract; the operator would design tariff
coinections to the Sosua sewerage system                   structure and community information programs
to achieve targets
Government is not successful in purchasing the land  M     Land titles will be required
for building the pumping stations
Installation of the submarine outfall at a water depth  M  Top level consultants will be hired to assist in
of 140 meters encounters difficulties, the outfall pipe    the outfall design and installation. If outfall
does not resist water pressure and suffers from            pipe laying on the sea bottom would not be
hurricanes/stonns                                          possible, pipe boring methods will be explored.
An appropriate pipe wall thickness will be
chosen to ensure resistance to water pressure.
The outfall pipe will be buried in the sea bed
up to a water depth of 40 meters as a practice
against storm impact
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Cont'd
The PCU is not staffed with competent professionals  S     Bank management will ensure that adequate
TORs are used, explain to Govemnment
officials the importance of nominating
competent staff to the PCU and ensure that
qualified personnel is selected
Government does not comply with its agreement to   M       Signing the contract with the consulting finn
hire a consulting firm specialized in implementation       will be a condition of effectiveness
of water and sewerage project, in the Bank's
procurement procedures and in financial management
to assist it in project management and implementation
Overall Risk Rating                                 S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 24
3. Possible ControversialAspects
Technical aspects
The use of a submarine outfall as part of a wastewater treatment and disposal system for the first time in
tourism centers in the Dominican Republic may cause some controversy due to lack of understanding of
the technology. The purpose of this LIL project is to illustrate the effectiveness and level of
environmental protection provided by this technical innovation. As part of the project, an extensive
environmental monitoring program will compare environmental conditions in the coastal areas of the
project before and after operation of the outfall and its preliminary treatment system and will determine
whether pathogenic coliforms discharged through the outfall diffuser reach bathing beaches. The results
of the monitoring program would be used in the training and dissemination component of the project, to
be implemented in partnership with PAHO, for the purpose of illustrating the benefits of the outfall
approach in tourism centers of the Dominican Republic.
The use of outfalls for wastewater management in developed countries require, in some countries,
secondary treatment of sewage prior to final disposal in the ocean, regardless of coastal conditions and
assimilative capacity of the ocean environment. Given the conditions of the pilot site selected for the
technical innovation in this LIL project, the use of secondary treatment prior to outfall disposal would not
achieve a significantly higher level of environmental protection, provided the location and depth of the
outfall diffuser are carefully selected to promote plume submergence and minimize wastefield travel to
shore in order to meet shoreline bacterial standards.
Furthermore, the levels of toxic substances and heavy metals in the pilot area are very small due to the
lack of an important industrial sector, fuirther reducing the need for any treatment beyond preliminary.
The use of secondary wastewater treatment in addition to the preliminary treatment proposed in this
project would make the technical solution unfeasible due to very high costs. Only if the monitoring
program indicates that a significant portion of the pathogenic coliforms discharged through the outfall
diffuser are reaching bathing beaches, or that any other environmental problem emerges as a result of the
effluent discharge, additional treatment options would be considered and subsequently implemented.
Appropriate provisions to reserve land for future enhancements of treatment installations will be
considered during project design.
Institutional aspects
The potentially most controversial aspect of the LIL project would be the tariff charges. The public
institutions in charge of water and sewerage services have very inefficient or non-existent tariff collection
systems and a large segment of the population is not used to paying for these services and perceives them
as free goods that the Government is obliged to provide. An important component of the learning
activities of this project would be the design and consultation process to establish a tariff structure that
makes the project financially viable and sustainable while remaining affordable to all. This tariff
structure would be based on the growing tourism industry and the willingness to pay of communities
surrounding tourism centers. It will provide adequate protection for the poorest and most vulnerable
segments of the population to make sure that the new tariffs remain affordable to them. If necessary,
cross- or direct subsidies would be used.



Page 25
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Negotiations conditions
* Policy letter of Government on principles of privatization for water and sewerage services.
* Letter of commitment from INAPA to: (a) transfer the management of water and sewerage services in
Puerto Plata/Sosua/Cabarete to the private sector operator; (b) operate maintain (and later transfer) the
new facilities during the transition period if the private operator is not able to initiate the management
activities in the area prior to the completion of works; and (c) complete the civil works of the existing
UASB wastewater treatment plant in Sosua.
2. Effectiveness conditions
* A consulting firm has been hired which will support the Government in managing and implementing
the project, including the preparation, management and carrying out of all the procurement processes
and the financial management.
* A Subsidiary Agreement has been signed between INAPA and the Government providing for, inter
alia: (i) that INAPA, through the Special Supervisory Committee, shall control and supervise the
provision of water and sewerage services in the Project Area by the selected Private Operator; (ii) that
INAPA shall operate and maintain, the required equipment and facilities under this Project, until the
Private Operator shall have been selected and become operational; (iii) that INAPA shall execute the
works necessary to finalize the UASB; and (iv) that the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources required or
appropriate to enable INAPA to carry out its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the objectives of the
Project.
* The Government has opened a special account for counterpart's funds in a local bank acceptable to
the Bank, and has deposited in it an amount equivalent to US$ 1,000,000 to be used to finance the
Government's part of the project costs.
3. Other conditions
i Recruiting the consulting firm to assist the PPCU during the bidding process by July 31, 2000.
* Initiating the bidding process for selecting the private operator before August 31, 2000.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation (prior to Board presentation). [X] Not applicable to a LIL project.
[] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable to a LIL project.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): N/A



Page 26
.I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]  [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: O r a
Sector Manager/Director: Dann   ei iger
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos



Page 27
Annex 1    Project Design Summary
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
Narrative Summary   _  Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                        (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Address water and      1. Increase in quality and  *  Ex-post evaluation
sanitation needs of tourism    coverage of water supply
areas and their adjacent  and sanitation services
population                2. Creation of mechanisms
2. Improve incentives for    to facilitate private sector
private sector participation    participation in the
in economic activity and  provision of urban public
increase private          services
participation in water and  3. Control of coastal
sanitation systems        environment degradation
management
3. Promote environmental
policies for sustainable
development
4. Arrest environmental
deterioration of coastal
zones
5. Contribute to poverty
alleviation, increase access
of the poor to the benefits of
growth and contribute to
improving public health
Project Development                                                             (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
1. Apply and test an      1.1 Pathogenic coliforms   *  Reports of monitoring
innovative technology for    discharged through the      programs of water
environmentally sound     outfall diffuser reach         quality in coastal
disposal of treated       bathing beaches in             environment based on
wastewater of small and   concentrations lower than      laboratory analysis
medium-size coastal towns   the prevailing coastal waters  results of water samples
through small-diameter     quality standards for bathing  *  Periodic reports of the
cost-effective submarine   beaches                       operator and the auditor
outfalls                                                 regarding achievement
2. Prepare and implement,   2.1 PSP contract targets for  of contract targets
for the first time in the  the first two years are    *  Customer satisfaction
Dominican Republic, an    achieved                       surveys regarding water
innovative model for      2.2 Increased satisfaction of  and sewerage services
incorporating the private  users (residential and hotels)
sector in the provision of  with the water supply and
water supply and sewerage   sewerage services
services in tourism centers



Page 28
Narrative Summa       Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Outputs:                                                                      (Outputs to Objective)
1. Sosua's main wastewater  1.1 Sosua's main       *  The PCU will prepare    *  If delays occur in
collection, treatment and  wastewater collection,      periodic project output   signing the water and
disposal system is       treatment and disposal        and implementation        sewerage contract
operational               system is completed          reports                   with the private
Monitoring during         operator, INAPA
2. Water supply and       2.1 Model, bidding           supervision missions,     operates the systems
sewerage services in Puerto  documents, and draft      including monitoring of   constructed under
Plata/Sosua/Cabarete are    contracts for the PSP      the performance of the    the LIL during the
managed by a private      process are completed        control committee         transition period
operator                  2.2 Water/sewerage bidding                          *  An agreement is
process is completed                                   reached with the
2.3 The contract with the                              Govermment
private water and sewerage                             regarding the
operator is signed                                     mechanism for
control and
3. Monitoring of coastal  3.1 A background                                       supervision of the
environment is implemented  monitoring program is                                contracts with the
before and after the outfall   completed                                         private operators
construction              3.2 A first annual
monitoring program is
completed
4. Training workshops are   4.1 Training workshops are
completed                 completed; training
participants include:
Government officials, local
authorities, representatives
of hotel and tourism sector,
environmental NGOs, and
community organizations
5. PSP contracts control and  5.1 The committee conducts
supervision committee    regular meeting at least
operative and performing    twice a month and produces
quarterly reports and an
annual performance
evaluation report



Page 29
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each                            (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2    component)
for project description)
1. Construction of the    1. US$4.28 M              *  The PCU will prepare    *  The next
wastewater conveyance                                   periodically detailed    Government honors
system, treatment                                       project implementation   the agreement to
installations and submarine                             reports and will provide    deliver the
outfall for Sosua                                       annual audited financial    responsibility of water
statements of the project   and sewerage services
2. Preparation and        2. US$0.46 M               *  Bank supervision         provision to a private
implementation of the                                   missions will visit the  operator
model for incorporating the                             Dominican Republic     *  The private sector
private sector in the                                   two or three times a     responses positively to
provision of water supply                               year depending on the    the proposed service
and sewerage services in the                            volume of works and      contract and sufficient
Puerto Plata/Sosua/Cabarete                             unforeseen               bids are submitted
region                                                  circumstances          *  The Government
complies with its
3. Monitoring of the coastal  3. US$0.56 M                                       agreement to transfer
environment before and                                                           management of water
after the construction of the                                                    and sewerage services
outfall                                                                          to the private sector
* An agreement is
4. Training and           4. US$0.21 M                                           reached in tariffs
dissemination of the                                                             between the operator,
technology of small-                                                             fNAPA and the other
diameter outfalls for                                                            local players
wastewater disposal (in                                                         *  INAPA successfully
cooperation with PAHO)                                                           manages the process of
and of PSP process                                                               house and hotel
development experience                                                           connections to the
5. Establishment and      5. US$0.11                                             Sosua sewerage
fhnl and                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~system
provision of technical and*  Installation of the
financial support to the                                                         submarine outfall at a
mechanism for control and                                                        water depth of 140
supervision operation                                                            meters is completed
successfully without
6. Project management and   6. US$1.62 M                                         obstacles, the outfall
design                                                                           pipe is resistant to
water pressure and
hurricanes/storms
* The PCU is staffed
with competent
professionals and
succeeds to implement
the project



Page 30
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Govemment
complies with its
agreement to hire a
consulting firm
specialized in
implementation of
water and sewerage
project, in the Bank's
procurement
procedures and in
financial management
to assist it in project
management and
.______________________  .________________________________    implementation.
See details on monitoring indicators in Annex IA.
The PCU will provide the Bank with regular reports detailing the status of project implementation and the evolution of
key performance and monitoring indicators.



Page 31
Annex 1A Key Performance Indicators
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
The key performance indicators for the project development objective include:
(a) The concentration of coliforms resulting from the submarine outfall within a distance of
hundred meters (100 m) from the beach, should be less than 100 MPN x 100 ml, where 100 MPN
means a hundred most probable numbers, and 100 ml means hundred milliliters; and
(b) The PSP Model is implemented successfully with the hiring of the Private Operator to provide
water and sewerage services in the Project Area, and the initiation of the operations by the Private
Operator.



Page 32
Annex 2    Project Description
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
Project component I - US$ 4,28 million - Construction of the wastewater conveyance system, treatment
installations and submarine outfallfor Sosua
This component includes:
1. Construction of six sections of main collectors for: (a) connecting the existing sewerage networks of
Sosua with the pumping stations; (b) enhancing the capacity of existing collectors sections of
insufficient capacity; (c) conveying the wastewater to the treatment plant; and (d) for connecting the
existing Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket Reactor (UASB) treatment plant to the submarine outfall.
These six section are: (i) a PVC collector of 350 mm diameter and 800 m length to connect the
network of the East Batey neighborhood to pumping station EB2; (ii) a PVC collector of 200 mm
diameter and 650 m length to connect the low part of the San Antonio (Charamicos) neighborhood to
pumping station EB 1; (iii) a section of a PVC of 600 mm diameter collector to be installed in parallel
to collector CRC-CRP between manholes CR578 and CR578', with a length of 104 m, to obtain the
flow capacity required; (iv) a section of a PVC collector of 350 mm diameter to be installed in
parallel to the gravity collector which connects manholes CRC and CRP, with a length of 106 m, to
obtain the flow capacity required; (vi) a PVC collector of 450 mm diameter and 180 m length to
connect manhole CRP, located at the entrance to the treatment plant site, with the INAPA UASB
treatment plant, including connection to the by-pass; and (vi) a HDPE collector of 350 mm diameter
and 305 m length to connect the existing USAB treatment plant to the submarine outfall.
2. Construction of four pumping stations, three of which connect various neighborhoods of Sosua to the
main pumping station (EB 1), which in turn pumps the wastewater to the treatment plant site. These
stations would occupy small areas in the range of 180-2060 m2 each (180 m2 for stations 4, 450 m2 for
stations 2 and 3, and 2060 m2 for station 1). The characteristics of the pumping stations are:
Pumping       Required Pumping E uipmentforYear-2010
Stationb    Number of   Flow per    TDH      HP per
Naune        Pumps      Pumnp       (m)       pump
Station 4     2+1        10         4.8        1.5
Station 2     2+1        60         26.2      35.0
Station 3     2+1        35         24.0      20.0
Station 1     2+1        110        37.6      90.0
TDH: Total Dynamic Head
3. Construction of the preliminary treatment component recommended for the outfall discharge system.
This component would be located upfront of the new treatment plant currently under construction by
INAPA. The project would finance the preliminary treatment installations which consists of a fine
screening installation of 6-10 mm, an aerated grit chamber for removal of grit and grease and a
microscreening installation with an opening of I mm, which includes also washing and compacting of
the screened material. This preliminary treatment component would have the capacity to remove
flotables and grit, as well as oil and grease (expected percentage removals: reduction of suspended
particles with diameter larger than 0.75 mm by 100% which corresponds to the effect of primary



Page 33
treatment in a settling tank, reduction of other undissolved materials by 80-90%, reduction of BOD by
10-20%). The project would also finance the installations for the appropriate handling of the separate
solids (screening and grit). INAPA would finance and construct the remaining 20% of the civil works
needed for completion of the overall treatment plant. However, part of the equipment required to
complete the plant would be financed by the project, including: power connection, emergency power
generator and a water quality laboratory. This plant is an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB)
wastewater treatment plant with a capacity of 100 Us. This UASB plant has the capacity of removing
about 50% of the BOD of the incoming sewage, but it cannot remove pathogenic organisms. As
emphasized earlier, BOD is not a critical parameter in the outfall system, so the usefulness of the
UASB plant is limited. However, since the plant is almost complete and INAPA is committed to
finishing the facilities (the construction contract is nearing completion) it was decided to incorporate
the plant in the wastewater management scheme. Nevertheless, the outfall design is based on the
assumption that only preliminary treatment is provided. The complex operation of the UASB plant
and the poor operational record of INAPA does not provide enough assurances that the plant would
function properly. The performance of the outfall with the preliminary treatment component (which
is very easy to operate) would achieve the environmental design standards. As wastewater peak
flows increase with time, the preliminary treatment component would be upgraded to handle them. It
is not planned to upgrade the UASB plant, as it does not provide a level of treatment which is
meaningful prior to discharge to the sea.
4. Construction of the submarine outfall for pre-treated wastewater discharge. The outfall would be
constructed of an HDPE pipe with inside diameter of 0.635 meter (nominal diameter 24"). The
outfall length would be 600 m and the discharge point (diffuser area) would be submerged at a depth
of 140 meter. The diffuser would have a length of 70 meter, with 16 orifices of 0.105 meter diameter
spaced every 4.3 meters. The total required pumping head for peak flow conditions would most
probably be achieved by gravity without the need for additional pumping, since the treatment plant
site is located at a sufficiently elevated site. The spacing between the concrete ballasts on the outfall
would be 3 m and 200 ballasts would be installed on the outfall, each weighing 1650 kg. The spacing
between the concrete ballasts on the diffuser would be 7 m and 10 ballasts would be installed on the
diffuser. The above design conditions would ensure that environmental protection standards are
achieved, as described in Annex 9. The Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO) will be invited
to participate in the review of the design of the outfall, and provide input and comments.
Project component 2 - US$ 0.46 million - Preparation and implementation of the Private Sector
Participation (PSP) modelfor the provision of water supply and sewerage services in the Puerto
Plata/Sosua/Cabarete region
This component, partially financed under the project, includes:
1. The preparation of bidding documents and draft contracts for the selection and contracting of a
private operator to manage the water and sewerage services in the pilot region;
2. Technical support to the Govemment during the proposals evaluation and selection process, contract
negotiation and signing;
3. Technical support during the design of control and auditing mechanisms to regulate the contract; and
4. Monitoring and evaluation of the PSP preparation and implementation process to identify lessons that
could be used in similar processes in other tourism centers in the country.
The Govemment has agreed to hire a consulting firm which would assist in carrying out the pre-
qualification and bidding processes for selecting the private operator.



Page 34
Project component 3 - US$ 0. 56 million - Monitoring of the coastal environment before and after the
construction of the outfall
This component would include activities to gather and analyze the necessary environmental information
to test the effectiveness of the small-diameter outfalls for safe disposal of treated wastewater of small and
medium-size towns in the northern and southern coasts of the Dominican Republic. The monitoring
program would start before the construction of the outfall in order to collect baseline information of the
coastal environment. The pre-construction environmental conditions would be compared with the results
of the monitoring phase after the outfall enter into operation.
The monitoring program would be designed based on similar programs developed for outfall systems.
The sampling points would be chosen to provide sufficient information to determine the fate and transport
of the treated wastewater discharged through the outfall diffusers. Generally, sampling points are chosen
around the discharge zone at various depths, as well as along the coastline, the initial dilution zone,
sensitive receptors, and restricted areas. The monitoring program will also include sampling and analyses
of sediments at the sea bottom in the vicinity of the outfall diffuser.
The parameters to be monitored include microbiological, physics, chemical and biological, such as:
temperature, salinity, total and fecal coliforms, fecal streptococci, dissolved oxygen, suspended solids,
grease and oil, and benthic samples, among others.
The results of the monitoring program should indicate whether the treatment processes in the ocean are
working according to the outfall design criteria. It is important to note that outfalls often result in
generating less negative environmental impacts that predicted by the models because of the conservative
assumptions used in the modeling of complex hydrodynamic coastal systems. In the unlikely case that
the outfall performance does not conform to the planned environmental standards, additional treatment
capacity would be added prior to outfall discharge. The monitoring program may also provide
information to prioritize future investments. For example, if the pre-treatment for wastewater to be
discharged through the outfall is sufficient, as planned, and the beach continues to be polluted by
discharges from surface water discharges, it may be more cost-effective and protective of the environment
to extend the wastewater collection network than to provide additional wastewater treatment prior to
outfall discharge. This component would also include the purchase of monitoring equipment.
PAHO will be invited to participate in the preparation and implementation of the monitoring program.
Project component 4 - US$ 0.21 million - Training and dissemination of the technology of small-
diameter outfalls for wastewater disposal and of the experience of the PSP processes development
In order to ensure that the lessons learned through the implementation of this LIL project are disseminated
and used in other tourism areas, as well as other small and medium-size coastal cities in the Caribbean
and Latin American, this project component would include training and dissemination activities. The
objective of this component, to be implemented in partnership with PAHO, is to use the pilot area as a
case study for dissemination of the small-diameter outfalls as a viable technology for small and medium-
size coastal tourism centers. In addition, the objective of this component is to disseminate the experience
accumulated during the preparation and implementation of the PSP processes.



Page 35
This component would include the following activities:
1 Preparation of a small-diameter outfall manual under the sponsorship of PAHO and the World Bank.
The manual would present the technology of small-diameter outfalls and its use as an appropriate
wastewater disposal alternative. The manual would be tailored to small and medium-size coastal
cities in developing countries, as opposed to the previous World Bank's Technical Paper "Wastewater
Management/for (C7oastal Cities" [2] which focused on large-diameter outfalls. The manual to be
prepared under this component of the project is expected to have ample distribution worldwide.
2. A workshop to present the small-diameter outfall technology to government officials, local
authorities, the local consulting engineers community, representatives of hotel and tourism sector,
environmental NGOs, and community organizations, especially from other tourism centers.
3. A second workshop that would take place during construction of the outfall in Sosua to illustrate
construction techniques and transfer of technology to interested parties from other tourism centers,
consulting engineers and participants from other countries in the region interested in small-diameter
outfalls. PAHO would participate in the coordination of the two workshops and the transfer of
technology.
4. A third workshop which would take place after the transfer of the services management responsibility
to the private sector, to disseminate the experience gained during the development of the PSP
processes to interested parties from the other tourism centers (Mayors and local government
representatives), all interested Government agencies, community leaders, hotel industry
organizations, NGOs, consulting engineers and participants from other countries in the region.
Project component 5 - US$ 0.11 million - Establishment and support to the mechanism for control and
supervision of the operation contract
At present there are no legal and regulatory framework in the Dominican Republic which promote PSP in the
water sector. Activities for preparation of an adequate legal and regulatory framework are under preparation
with support of the IDB. Until the new law is enacted, the PSP contract which would be prepared under the
project will define its legal framework and control arrangements. A specific mechanism for supervision and
control of the operation contract needs to be developed (see Annex 10). During appraisal it was agreed
that the Government would submit a proposal regarding the control and supervision mechanism which
would be used under the project. Technical and financial support would be provided under the project to
make it operational and active. The control and supervision activity would also include control of the
required environmental aspects, i.e., environmental supervision and inspection of the operator, after he
takes over.
The contract control and supervision mechanism should also include supervision of the environmental
mitigation plan and the oversight of the monitoring program of the coastal environment before and after
the construction of the outfall. This work will include ensuring, during the design period that all the
required environmental aspects are taken in account, as well as environmental supervision and inspection
of the operator, after he takes over.
2 Gunnerson, C.G. and J.A. French. (1988) "Wastewater Managementfor Coastal Cities", Technical Paper 77, The
World Bank, Washington, D.C.



Page 36
Project component 6 - US$ 1.62 million - Project management and design
This component would support project management activities carried out by the Executing Unit in the
Technical Secretariat of the Presidency. These activities include: hiring of all consulting services to carry
out the studies required for preparation and design of the project; preparation of bidding documents
including environmental requirements for purchase of goods and equipment and implementation of
works, coordination of work implementation with INAPA; coordination of the project Advisory
Committee which will be consulted at various stages of the PSP process; and financial management of the
project.
A series of studies will be included under this component such as oceanographic studies, detailed design
of the submarine outfall and additional system components (collectors, pumping stations and preliminary
treatment installations), supervision of works, .etc. In addition, training programs will be carried out as
well as environmental awareness campaigns.
To enable the PCU to cope with all its tasks, the Government has agreed that it will receive the support of
a consulting firm which would be hired to help in managing and implementing the project, including the
preparation, management and carrying out of all the procurement processes and handling the financial
management of the project.



Page 37
|Fig 1: Layout of the main wastewater collection,|-: 
treatment, and disposal svstems for Sosua (Final Stacie):: 
PS: Pumping Station
Pressure line (pumping)
Z     Gravity line
Road
CRC: Manhole (change from pressure to                                                        ,
gravity)
CRP: Manhole at entrance to the treatment                                               / -                  LA
plant                                                                          /7  \
LA
|   0   t    ubmaine    ;00SOSUABAY:  /PS# 3
~~~~~~~~~LOA                            ELIO .VRPALEDOR   LOS \>- /-<
BAJITA                      +  \ WJk'89UA



Page 38
0  EAST BATEY                                           U
100%        \0
.                7 Pu~~~imping 
Station                    .
N`2                       LA MULATA
.    . * 117.7 lls                     100%
WEST BATEY
80%
SOSUA ABAJO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ WSTBAE
100%
Pumpmng
S nStation
.................          N3
O C TSAN ANTONIO
SOSUA ABAJOT._ 
100%                  Manhole..
RLA PARED
100% ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~10
APump ngX                               \> Pumping               A
Station                                       Station               SAN ANTONIO
SBManhole                2 14.5 I/s
EL VALEDOR       ~~PUERTO CHIQUITO          an   e            ALTO DE LOS 
ELVALEDOR                 100% .A                                 CASTILLOL
100%    .               J       L     C           L      '% JC 100
PRE             L.  PUreON
TREATyENT                   an_21eGav
TREATMENT         t    o     S       N
PLANT         |.               .        -
I   f1                / Pumping n;    f ~~~~~AIR FORCE BASE 
1430 Us                stto N5%
SUBMARINE                    14.5 II /s       
|   OUTFL| 
..............    ...>Pressure
Flows correspond to hourly peak for the
year 2010                                                       p-  Gravity
| Fig. 2: Operational Scheme of the Sosua Sewerage Network (Final Stage) |



Page 39
Annex 3   Estimated Project Costs
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
Estimated project costs by component, US$ millions
Project Component                                                Local             Foreign           Total
Sosua Wastewater System                                               1.31              2.23           3.54
PSP Model Implementation                                              0.12              0.28           0.40
Coastal Waters Monitoring                                             0.50              0.00           0.50
Training and Technology Dissemination                                 0.05              0.15           0.20
PSP Contract Control and Supervision                                  0.05              0.05           0.10
Project Management and Detailed Design                                0.51              0.93           1.44
Total Baseline Cost                                                   2.54              3.64           6.18
Physical Contingencies                                             0.25              0.36           0.61
Price Contingencies                                                0.15              0.06           0.21
Land Acquisition                                                   0.27                             0.27
Taxes                                                              0.23                             0.23
Front-end Fee                                                                        0.05           0.05
Total Proiect Cost                                                    3.44              4.11           7.55
Estimated Project Timetable, US$ million, based on country 'sfiscal year
Project Component                      Total      2000       2001       2002
A. Sosua Wastewater System               3.54      1.35       2.19
B. PSP Model Implementation              0.40      0.40
C. Coastal Waters Monitoring             0.50      0.18       0.12      0.20
D. Training & Technology Dissemination   0.20      0.10       0.10
E. PSP Contract Control and Supervision
Committee                                0.10      0.04       0.06
F. Project Management and Detailed Design  1 .43   0.88       0.43      0.12
Subtotal 1 (Project Base Cost)           6.17      2.95       2.90      0.32
Physical Contingencies (10%)             0.62      0.30       0.29      0.03
Price Contingencies                      0.21      0.10       0.10      0.01
Subtotal 2                               7.00      3.35       3.29      0.36
Land Aquisition                          0.27      0.27
Taxes                                    0.23                 0.23
Front-End Fee                            0.05      0.05
Total Project Cost                       7.55      3.67       3.52      0.36



Page 40
Detailed estimated project cost, US$ thousand
Materials &                                                         %Base
Project Component             Equipment  Works  Studies Total Cost   Local  Foreign %Foreign    Cost
A. Sosua Wastewater System      1782.24   1757.50            3539.74   1308.26 2231.48     63       57.4
Al. Collectors in Sosua        193.08    246.20            439.28    439.28   0.00       0        7.1
A2. Pumping Stations           820.57    347.64            1168.21   560.74  607.47      52       18.9
A3. Preliminary Treatmant      235.20    156.80            392.00    156.80  235.20      60       6.4
A4. UASB Treatment Plant       133.39    36.87             170.26    36.37   133.89      79       2.8
A5. Submarine Outfall         400.00    970.00             1370.00   115.08  1254.92     92       22.2
B. PSP Model Implementation                        400.00    400.00    120.00  280.00     70        6.5
C. Coastal Waters Monitoring                       500.00    500.00    500.00   0.00       0        8.1
D. Training & Technology
Dissemination                                      200.00    200.00    50.00   150.00      75       3.2
E. Establishment and initial
support to the mechanism of
control and supervsion of the
contract with the private operator                 100.00    100.00    50.00   50.00       50       1.6
F. Project Management and
Detailed Design                                    1430.00   1430.00   505.00  925.00      50      23.2
Fl. Geophysical Studies                          100.00    100.00     0.00   100.00     100       1.6
F2. Oceanographic Studies                         50.00     50.00    50.00    0.00       0        0.8
F3. Preliminary Design and
Supervision of Outfall
construction                                     300.00    300.00     0.00   300.00     100       4.9
F4. Detailed Design of
Collectors, Pumping and
Pretreatment, and Supervision
of Works                                         300.00    300.00    300.00   0.00       0        4.9
F5. Management and
Implementation Firm                              400.00    400.00     0.00   400.00     100       6.5
F6. Procurement Audits                            30.00     30.00    30.00    0.00       0        0.5
F7. EU Personnel Expenses                        250.00    250.00    125.00  125.00      50       4.1
Total Base Cost                 1782.24   1767.50  2630.00   6169.74   2533.26 3636.48     59      100.0
Physical Contingencies           178.22    175.75   263.00    616.97    253.33  363.65    59       10.0
Price Contingencies                                          213.07    150.52   62.55     29        3.5
Total Project Cost                                           6999.79   2937.11  4062.67    58      113.5
Land Acquisition                                             269.20    269.20   0.00       0        4.4
Duties and Taxes                                             226.83    226.83   0.00       0        3.7
Front-end Fee                                                 50.00     0.00    50.00     100       0.8
Total Investment                                             7545.82   3433.15 4112.67     55      122.3



S iU
HLE -E -ul~.                                        & 0 



Page 42
Annex 4    Cost-Benefit Analysis
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
The proposed Learning and Innovation Loan supports two main objectives: (i) improve environmental
conditions, specifically the deterioration of coastal areas caused by poor waste management, by the
construction of a wastewater disposal system in Sosua and (ii) prepare an innovative pilot model to
increase private sector participation (PSP) as a way to provide a better service than currently offered by
the state water companies.
In view of these two objectives respectively, two separate analyses have been conducted: (i) an economic
cost-benefit analysis of the proposed wastewater disposal investment, summarized in this Annex 4 and (ii)
a financial assessment of the future private operations as they are envisaged by the Government,
summarized in Annex 5.
1. Objective
The cost-benefit analysis presented below aims at determining whether the proposed wastewater disposal
investment in Sosua is economically viable. We conducted a simplified cost-benefit analysis, in view of
the limited economic information available and of the pilot character of the Learning and Innovation
Loan. It focuses on the two main beneficiaries of the project: (i) the local population which will benefit
from improved sewerage services and (ii) the tourism industry which will benefit from the better quality
and cleanliness of coastal areas.
Although the prime objective of the analysis is to assess the economic viability of the wastewater disposal
system in Sosua as such, it focuses more generally on the costs and benefits of providing sewerage
services in the region. Indeed, while the construction of the sewerage collection system in Sosua is nearly
complete, it is not operational because the last portion of the sewerage pipes that connects the network
and treatment plant has not been constructed yet. The LIL project includes the cost of connecting the
existing sewerage networks in Sosua to the new pumping facilities and enhances the capacity of Sosua's
existing collectors. Therefore, the economic cost-benefit analysis does not differentiate the costs and
benefits of the disposal system from those of providing sewerage services to customers.
Note that a similar cost-benefit analysis has been conducted in parallel by an independent consultant to
the Government of the Dominican Republic, whose results confirm ours and are summarized below.
2. Methodology
To assess the economic viability of providing sewerage services in Sosua, we used the comprehensive
model we developed to assess the financial viability of the future private operations and which is
described in details in Annex 5. The financial flows of costs and benefits were adjusted for the impact of
taxes, subsidy and management fee.
The model estimates the net economic benefits generated by the wastewater disposal project on an
incremental basis, comparing the costs and benefits of a "with project" scenario to the costs and benefits
of a "without project" scenario. In the "with project" scenario, the wastewater disposal investment is
implemented, which requires the construction of the wastewater conveyance system, treatment
installation and submarine outfall and of the connecting network to Sosua and the maintenance of these
installations. In the "without project" scenario, the sewerage investment in Sosua is not made, which
triggers a loss in tourism revenues as a result of the pursuit of coastal degradation in the area. The costs
and benefits resulting from all other forecast investments, notably related to water services in Sosua and
to water and sewerage services in Puerto Plata and Cabarete, are included in both scenarios.



Page 43
The main benefits of the project considered in the analysis include: (i) the provision of sewerage services
in Sosua, (ii) an improvement in the local coastal environment, which should avoid losses in tourism
revenues in the region and would increase tourists' satisfaction. Although the improved hygienic
conditions that result from the provision of sewerage services and the learning and demonstration effect
that a low cost technology is feasible to reverse environmental degradation along the coast are clearly
benefits, they have not been quantified in the analysis.
To measure the economic benefits resulting from the provision of sewerage services in Sosua, we used
willingness-to-pay estimates derived from a consultant's study carried out in July 1999. To measure the
benefits to the local tourism industry, we considered that they could be proxied by estimates of the
expected loss in tourism revenues if coastal degradation was allowed to continue. We also took into
account the savings that hotels would make as they will be released from having to provide their own
collection and treatment facilities. Finally, we measured the increased tourists' satisfaction by their
willingness to pay for an improved coastal environment as estimated by the same consultant's study.
Two economic indicators have been used to assess the economic viability of the project: the Net Present
Value (NPV) and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of the incremental economic flows generated by the
project. To compute their NPV, these flows were discounted using a 12% discount rate which is assumed
to be a proxy of the Dominican Republic's opportunity cost of capital.
The independent consultant's analysis was based on similar principles, but using a simplified cash flow
model.
3. Assumptions
The primnary source of data was reports prepared by privatization consultants, under the supervision of the
PCU, as they were used to establish the financial projections described in Annex 5.
Investment costs include, in the "with project" scenario, the construction costs related to the wastewater
system works and the cost of connecting customers to the new system, including contingencies. They
total US$ 6.4 millions and are entirely spent in 2000. To these costs we have added the costs for the
works some families will have to mnake inside their house to connect to the new system. These costs have
been estimated at US$ 360 per house and apply to 20% of local households.
In the '-without project" scenario, only the costs of expansion investments in water or in Puerto Plata and
Cabarete have been included.
The cost of constructing the nearly complete sewerage collection system in Sosua has been included in
both scenarios given that it is a sunk cost, independent of this project.
Operational & maintenance costs (O&M) include the costs of labor, power, chemicals, start up,
maintenance, other costs and contingencies attributable to the provision of sewerage services in Sosua. In
the "without project" scenario, only O&M costs attributable to water operations in Sosua or to operations
in Puerto Plata and Cabarete have been included.
Revenues are made, in the "without project" scenario, of water revenues generated in Sosua plus water
and sewerage revenues generated in Puerto Plata and Cabarete. In the "with project" scenario, revenues
include in addition the benefits resulting from the provision of sewerage services in Sosua and the tourism
benefits resulting from reduced coastal degradation to tourists and to hotels.



Page 44
Sewerage benefits in Sosua have been estimated by multiplying the willingness-to-pay estimates for that
service (US$12.96 per family-month) by the target connection rates specified in the draft bidding
documents.
Tourism benefits have been proxied by an estimate of the loss in tourism revenues which could be
expected if the environmental degradation was allowed to continue. We estimated it to represent a
conservative 0.5% of the local tourism industry revenues. The latter have been calculated on the basis of
an-average revenue of US$95 per occupied hotel room per day (i.e. US$ 50 for the room plus US$ 15 per
tourist). Revenues generated by occasional tourists have not been taken into account. Residual water
collection and treatment investment costs saved by the hotels that were not collected to the network and
will be after completion of the project have been estimated by an independent consultant to represent US$
0.4 and US$ 0.3 per cubic meter respectively. We have assumed that only 25% of these costs were paid
to foreign firms and would therefore represent a benefit for the local economy.
Benefits to tourists from benefiting from a cleaner coastal environment have been estimated on the basis
of their willingness to pay for an improved environment. The latter has been estimated by an independent
consultant at $8.12 per visit to the Dominican Republic. We have not included short-term occasional
tourists in the calculation.
Changes in working capital have also been adjusted in the "with project" scenario to include, in addition
to the working capital required for water operations and for Puerto Plata and Cabarete, the working
capital necessary to support the sewerage operations in Sosua.
4. Results of the cost-benefit analysis
The results of the cost-benefit analysis show that the wastewater disposal investment is an economically
profitable operation with a positive NPV of US$ 4.3 millions and an IRR of 23%.
Base case
NPV (d, 12%      US$ 4,319,000
IRR                    23%
The results from the cost-benefit analysis conducted by the independent consultant, which also included
benefits to society in general, confirm the economic value added by the project, with a NPV of US$ 42
millions at a discount rate of 12% and an IRR of 39%.
5. Sensitivity and risk analyses
The economic viability of the investment largely depends on the critical assumption that some tourism
revenues would be lost if the degradation in coastal environment was allowed to continue. Our base case
assumption in that regard is particularly conservative, assuming that only 0.5% of the region's tourism
revenues would be lost and that an average tourist farnily only spends US$95 per day in the country.
With more optimistic assumptions, the economic viability of the project increases substantially.
Project NPV                                          % of local tourism revenues lost
US$ niillions                                        0.5%       1.0%        1.5%
Average revenue per hotel room
US$95 (US$ 50 per room plus 15 per tourist per day)    4.3  9.1          13.8
US$1 10 (US$ 50 per room plus 20 per tourist per day)   5.1  10.1        16.0
US$ 140 (US$ 50 per room plus 30 per tourist per day)  6.6   13.6        20.5



Page 45
IRR
. ........... .- .. ... ......I...........   ............ ..... ...........-......   ....................   ............................ ....................   ................ . - .1 ........
Average revenue per hotel room
US$95 (US$ 50 per room plus 15 per tourist per day)    23%                                  38%               56%
US$1 10 (US$ 50 per room plus 20 per tourist per day)   26%                                 43%               66%
US$ 140 (US$ 50 prropls3petoitprda)30%                                                      55%               92%



Page 46
Annex 5    Financial Assessment of the Future PSP Company
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
1. Objectives
The analysis which follows is aimed at (i) assessing the global feasibility of the pilot model envisaged by
the Government of the Dominican Republic to establish a PSP for the provision of water and sewerage
services in the pilot region of Puerto Plata, Sosua and Cabarete and the expected return to shareholders,
(ii) assessing the debt service capacity of the future private operations and (iii) determining the main risk
factors and the sensitivity to these factors of the overall feasibility of the PSP.
The debt service capacity of the private operations has been analyzed even though the operator is not the
direct beneficiary of the Bank's LIL extended to the Government. Such analysis is however part of the
general assessment of the financial strength of the private operations. It is further justified by the fact that
the private operator could receive a Government loan originated in the potential SIL loan would the Bank
choose to grant it to the Government following implementation of the LIL(s). We have assumed in our
base case scenario that the Bank would indeed extend a SIL to the Government to finance future
investments in the sector, but we have conducted a sensitivity in case the operator had to recourse to other
sources of financing.
2. Methodology
Based on reports prepared by privatization consultants, we constructed a comprehensive spreadsheet
model. The model consisted in population and tourism forecasts, water and sewerage connection and
metering targets, investment programs, production and treatment capacity, personnel, operating costs and
financing assumptions, which all fed into the cost-benefit analysis presented in Annex 4, the financial
assessment summarized below and the risk and sensitivity analyses.
Unlike the cost-benefit analysis which calculates the net benefits generated by the wastewater disposal
project on an incremental basis ("with project" and "without project" scenarios), the financial assessment
determines the viability of the PSP program as proposed by the Government and after construction of the
proposed wastewater disposal investments ("with project" scenario only).
The financial viability of the future private operations was determined by the following indicators:
i) The net present value (NPV) of free cash flows (FCF) from operations, to verify if the PSP structure
as proposed by the Government in the draft bidding documents is financially viable or not (overall
value of business);
ii) The internal rate of return (IRR) of future cash flows available to private shareholders (dividends
minus capital injections), to verify if the PSP structure is attractive to foreign and domestic investors
(value to investors);
iii) The debt to equity ratio of the utility, to verify if the PSP structure allows the utility to maintain a
healthy balance sheet structure;
iv) The debt service ratio of the utility, to verify if it will have the financial capacity to serve its loans;
v) The current ratio of the utility, to verify if the utility will remain sufficiently liquid.



Page 47
3. Assumptions
Proposed PSP structure
PS'P award criteria
In the draft bidding documents, the Government proposes to award the PSP contract on the basis of the
sum of the present values of (i) the amount of water and sewerage investments the operator will require to
be financed by the Government (investment subsidy) and (ii) the amount of World Bank loan that the
private operator will require to be on-lent by the Government to the PSP company.
As a result of the high investment costs made necessary to reach the expansion targets set forth in the
draft bidding document, it cannot be excluded indeed that bidders will tie their realizing the required
investments to their receiving some sort of subsidy from the Government (see detailed analysis below).
,S'tarting assets and liabilities
Under the PSP scheme, INAPA's activities in the region will be contracted out to private investors via the
creation of a special purpose PSP company with a minimum level of capital specified in the draft bidding
contracts. We assumed that none of the assets and liabilities of the existing public utilities would be
transferred to the newly created private company. The operator will be required to employ a specific
number of INAPA's employees, to be negotiated with the Government.
E'ST operations
As detailed earlier, during the Initial Operating Phase (IOP), which we assumed would last 2 years, the
operator will not be required to carry out expansion investments. He will then focus his activities on
improving performance, on the basis of the existing infrastructure (including the wastewater disposal
system in Sosua). Improved performance would come from an improved revenue collection and a more
efficient commercial and financial management. In 2002, the Bank's SIL loan may be granted to the
Government so that the operator has finance available to start the expansion program. A sensitivity is ran
to assess the impact of the operator having to find alternative financing should the SIL not be granted.
This is the start of the Normal Operating Phase (NOP).
New tariff regime
As of the beginning of the NOP, the draft bidding documents allow the operator to revise tariffs annually
under certain specific conditions and limits. The draft regulatory framework being discussed with the
IDB is based on a similar principal but only allows tariff reviews every five years or in the case of
exceptional events, provided they are approved by the future regulator. It is intended that the provisions
of the bidding documents remain valid after the regulatory framework is in place, so that annual changes
in tariffs should be allowed, but it cannot be excluded that the regulatory framework prevails and tariffs
can only be revised every 5 years.
Time horizon of PSP contract
The take over of responsibility by the operator is assumed to take place at the beginning of 2000. Since
the private operators will be required to carry out large investments under the bidding contract, the latter
specifies that the Normal Operating Phase will be 20 years, so as to allow time for the recovery of
investments. The terminal value of flows generated after that period has been assumed to be zero as
invested assets will be fully depreciated.
Basic operational assumptions
The main assumptions were based on: (i) the operational performance, customer base and physical
capacity of the existing water utilities in the region, (ii) the expected efficiency gain from private
operations, (iii) the operational and physical targets specified in the draft bidding documents, (iv) the



Page 48
financial requirements set forth in the draft PSP contract and (v) the constraints imposed by the local
environment. Most assumptions were defined in detailed reports from privatization consultants.
Obviously, the conditions imposed in the bidding documents and PSP contract are still subject to changes.
Items                     Operational assumptions, I
~~~~~~~~........... ....................................................................................................... . ............................ ........ .............. ... . ...
Population                *  Local population growth based on official census and projections;
* Tourism growth derived from permit requests for new hotels;
*  Resulting total population growth decreases progressively from 3.1 % p.a. to
2.6% p.a.
('onnection rates         Based on targets specified in draft PSP document. The global water connection
rate increases from 86% today to 95% in 2020. The global sewerage
connection rate increases from 28% today to 76%.
Meterin_g rates           Increases from 5 % today to 1 00%, based on targets-in draft bidding documents
Per capita consumption    Based on statistics provided by the region's public water utilities. Assumed to
remain constant over time.
Tariffs                   We assumed that tariffs will be revised in 2002 at the start of the NOP and that
the operator will be allowed 5-yearly tariff revisions to correct for the DR$
depreciation against the US$. Two alternative initial tariff structures have been
used, which lead to similar results. Altemative 1 includes:
* For the local population, tariffs are set at US$ 6.6 per family-month (about
US$ 0.65 per cubic meter) for both water and sewerage (US$ 13.2 in total),
well below their willingness-to-pay levels estimated by a consultant at US$
14.21 per family-month for water and US$ 12.96 for sewerage. However,
this tariff represents a high 100% increase over the current average tariff;
* Tariffs to small commercial and industrial users, which are already quite
high, are increased by only 25% to US$ 0.75 per cubic meter;
* For hotels, the current tariff is extremely low because their water
consumption is strongly underestimated by INAPA. They could therefore
be increased (by about 200%), while remaining low, at US$ 25 per cubic
meter effectively consumed. The increased cost for hotels will be
compensated by savings in building their own water collection and
treatment systems.
Altemative 2 would be to maintain the tariffs paid by the local population and
the small commercial and industrial users unchanged and to increase the tariff
paid by hotels to US$ 0.36 per cubic meter.
A detailed tariff study is under preparation to define the most appropriate tariff
_  structure given local conditions and willingness-to-pay.
Revenue collection rates   For the local population, assumed to improve drastically under the new
operator, from 50% today to 85% in 2005, with a slower improvement in 2002
when the new higher tariffs are put in place (so that net bills in local currency
increase at an acceptable rate). For hotels and commercial users, assumed to
improve from about 50% today to 95% and 93% in 2005 respectively.
Unaccounted-for water    Estimated to gradually decrease from 40% of water consumption today to 24%.
Power and chemical        Based on the quantity of electricity and chemicals consumed per cubic meter of
operating costs           water produced in each stage of operations, times the real cost of powver and
chemicals, assumed constant. Note that the electricity cost is much higher
(0.18$/kwh) than on the international market because of the small diesel power
plants in the region.



Page 49
Items                  0perational assumptions, II
Employees              The bidding documents envisage that, at the start of the P SP, a number of
employees from INAPA will be transferred to the new private company.
Consultants have estimated that a minimum of 234 employees would be
needed, which corresponds to a low productivity of 7.2 employees per
connection and results from the large number of small pumping stations. The
operator is assumed to maintain the number of employees constant until it
finally reaches 4 employees per 1000 connections, considered as a long term
_efficient level.
Labor cost             The operator is assumed to raise salaries to a private company level during the
__________________two first years of the PSP (+25% p.a.). Then, they follow inflation (2% p.a.).
Other operating costs    Defined as a percentage of power, chemical and labor costs, including a 3%
___________________supervision cost to be paid to the future regulator.
Management fee         A "management fee" is assumed to be paid to the new management team equal
to 5% of operating income.
Capital expenditures   Estimated on the basis of consultant reports in order to achieve the physical
targets set forth in the draft bidding documents, plus a 15% contingency cost.
A total of US$26bn is invested in water and US$39bn in sewerage over the 20
I ear period.
Financial assumptions
Items                Financial assumptions
Taxes                30% of income before tax.
Exchange rate        Assumed to depreciate by 2% in real terms per annum in pursuit of the trend
observed over the last 5 years.
Discount rate        12%, a proxy for the Dominican Republic's opportunity cost of capital.
Accounts receivable   Defined as 50 days of uncollected revenues.
Accounts payable     Defined as a constant percentage of capex and operating costs.
Inventory            Defined as a constant percentage of chemical costs.
,S'hort-term debt    Issued annually in the context of working capital lines of credit, in an amount
equal to 10% of operating costs. Bears a 15% real interest rate.
Long-term debt       Issued annually in an amount equal to the shortage of liquidity if any. Long-term
debt issued from 2002 to 2006 is assumed to be originated in the Bank SIL to the
Government. It bears a 6.25% real interest rate, has a 5 year grace period and a 17
year maturity. Long-term debt issued after 2006 bears a 8.5% real interest rate, has
a 3 year grace period and a 10 year maturity. In the base case scenario, US$4
million long-term debt is necessary; this amount can reach US$10 million
depending on the assumptions.
Equity financing     Based on the minimum US$4bn capital required in the draft bidding documents.
Legal reserve        5% of net income is distributed every year to the legal reserve until the latter
reaches 10% of social capital, as required in the new legal framework for limited
companies.
Dividend pay-out     Includes a minimum dividend, except in three circumstances when no dividend is
policy               paid: (i) in years of capital injections, (ii) when net income is negative and (iii)
when cash flows after debt servicing are negative. If cash flows lead to an excess
_of liquidity, the surplus is entirely distributed in additional dividends



Page 50
4. Results of thefinancial assessment
Based on the assumptions used in the base-case projections, the PSP appears financially viable as
specified in the draft bidding documents. It could in fact be viable without subsidy from the Government,
but under the strict conditions that collection rates improve drastically and rapidly and that tariffs can be
increased to our base case levels.
If collection rates did not improve substantially and rapidly from their current level or if tariffs could not
be raised to sufficiently high level, bidders would have to significantly slow down or reduce network
investments to maintain a sufficient return. In order to protect themselves against such possibility, they
are likely to negotiate some additional financial comfort from the Government, be it under the form of a
subsidy or otherwise (see below).
Note that, even with a drastic increase in revenue collection rates, our projections indicate that the private
operations would likely be loss-making as long as the current tariff structure would be maintained as it
does not allow to recover costs, especially if the private operator increases salaries to private sector levels.
It is only when tariffs can be increased, that the company is profit-making. This confirms that tariffs
would have to be raised independently of the PSP process.
The new tariff will however have to be defined with a lot of caution given the low current collection rate
and the low income of the local population. To that respect, our second tariff structure altemative, where
the tariff increase is entirely born by the hotels, presents substantial implementation advantages.
Our base case assumptions translate into a return on equity to investors of 23.3% and an overall return
from operations of 26.1 %.
Base case      FCF from operations   Cash flows to investors
NPV (c 12%       US$ 4,545,000          US$ 4,263,000
IRR                  26.1%                 23.3%
Under those assumptions, the private company would be able to maintain adequate financial ratios
throughout the NOP, except for the current ratio, which remains very low during the entire PSP period as
debtors' accounts are reduced drastically while suppliers' accounts remain high as a result of the high
projected investments.
Min. debt      Max. LT debt to    Min. current ratio
service coverage    equity ratio
Key financial ratios, 2002-2021     7.0                0.3                0.1
5. Sensitivity and risk analyses
Clearly, if our base case scenario shows that the private operations can be profitable under certain
circumstances without subsidy from the Government, it also highlights the drastic efforts the operator will
have to make to improve revenue collection despite the necessary sharp rise in tariffs. With the current
culture where most people are not charged and therefore do not pay for the water they consume, this is a
bet the operator will probably make only if he can secure some financial cushion to protect its return
against the cost of a slower improvement.
Such financial cushion could take the form of:
*  Achieving a higher personnel productivity;
*  Negotiating a lower energy cost;



Page 51
* Requiring a direct subsidy from the Government, possibly tied to the implementation of investments
or to the level of collection rates.
We have conducted several sensitivity analyses highlighting the respective impact of such measures.
We have also analyzed the impact of changes in other key assumptions influencing the financial viability
of the operations:
*  Exchange rate depreciation,
*  Investment cost overrun.
Finally, we conducted a sensitivity analysis on the terms of long term debt in order to highlight the impact
of the Bank's SIL on the financial sustainability of the PSP program.
Slower improvements in revenue collection rates
Our base case scenario assumes that the average revenue collection rate will improve from less than 50%
today to nearly 90% in 2006.
Average revenue collection rate    1999   2000  2001  2002   2003   2004  2005   2006 and after
Total population               44%   54%   63%   63%   72%   79%   85%                89%
These higher collection rates will need to be achieved while the new tariff structure, implemented in
2002, is put in place and leads to sharp tariff increases.
A reduction in residential revenue collection rates from our base case assumptions, or a reduction in
tariffs below our base case levels, would have a drastic impact on the overall financial viability of the
private operations and on the return to investors.
Decrease in annual residential revenue collection rates below base case
0% (base case) to 85% in 2005    -10% to 75% in 2005    -20% to 65% in 2005
IRR of operations           26.1%                      16.3%                  10.8%
IRR to investors            23.3%                      17.4%                  12.2%
Given the difficulty to assess the real success of the operator to increase collection rates, we looked at his
capacity to secure some financial comfort to protect its return against potentially lower collection rates.
This comfort could take various forms.
Higher personnel productivity
The number of employees in the base case (234) has been assessed by consultants, taking into account the
large number of pumping stations in different locations. It translates into an average productivity level
well below best practice standards at 7.2 employees per 1000 connections. The private sector operator
could be in a position to improve productivity above our base case scenario and negotiate that a lower
number of employees from INAPA are transferred to the private company. The table below highlights
that the viability of the private company could improve substantially if the operator managed and was
allowed to do so. In our most optimistic sensitivity with only 174 employees, his return increases to 28%
while productivity remains below often achieved levels.
Number of employees in 2000
234 (base case)        204                174
Employees per 1000 connections        7.2               6.2                5.4
IRR to investors                    23.3%              24.7%              27.7%



Page 52
This could compensate somewhat for a lower revenue collection rate as described in the table below.
IRR to investors   With residential collection rate 10%    With residential collection rate 20%
below base case (75% in 2006)        below base case (65% in 2006)
234 employees                    17.4%                                 12.2%
174 employees                   21.2%                                 15.8%
Alternatively, it could allow lower tariffs to be applied (tariff increase of 150% for hotels instead of 200%
for instance).
Reduced energy cost
Our base case scenario assumes that the operator would pay US$0.18/kwh, which is clearly above the
average international energy price (US$ 0.09 to 0.12/kwh) and results from the low performing diesel
power plants of the country. However, the Govermnent is preparing the privatization of the energy sector
which should lead to more efficiency, or alternatively the private operator could negotiate better
commercial terms or the possibility to use other power sources. The sensitivity of the private company to
the price of power is substantial as demonstrated in the table below.
.........- ------- ................... .,,,,.......  ,,,,...  .,, ..  ........  .  .. ,,,,,,,,,...........,. ....,...........   ..,............ ,.,,, ......... ............  .....................   ..................................................
Energy cost         US$0.18/kwh (base case)       US$ 0.165/kwh           US$ 0.15/kwh
IRR to investors             23.3%                    26.7%                   30.2%
Again, this would nicely compensate for lower collection rates.
IRR to investors             With residential collection rate 10%   With residential collection rate 20%
below base case (75% in 2006)       below base case (65% in 2006)
Energy cost =US$0.165/kwh                   17.4%                               12.2%
US$0.15/kwh                   20.4%                                18.3%
While the sensitivities above shown that some improvement in the operating performance or in the
operating costs of the private company might compensate for lower collection rates, they may not be
achievable in the local context, where pumping stations are largely scattered and where the cost of energy
remains above international standards. In that case, it is very likely that the future operator will negotiate
a subsidy from the Government. Such subsidy could be tied to the implementation of some of the
required investments or could be conditional upon collection rates not improving sufficiently.
Subsidy from Government
The size of subsidy required would naturally depend on the rate of return expected by the future operator
and needs to be compared with the subsidy currently paid by the Government to the local public water
utilities (US$58 millions in 1998, of which US$41 millions for INAPA).
IRR to investors      With residential collection rate    With residential collection rate
10% below base case                 20% below base case
No subsidy                          17.4%                               12.2%
Subsidy of US$ 2 mm                 22.3%                               16.3%
Subsidy of US$ 4 nmm                29.6%                               22.2%



Page 53
Exchange rate depreciation
The volatility of exchange rate depreciation has been relatively large in the past, so that we conducted a
sensitivity on the annual depreciation of the local currency. Our sensitivity shows that the private
operations are highly sensitive to a depreciation if tariffs cannot be adjusted at all (because most network
investments are in US$). However, according to the draft bidding contract, the operator would be
allowed to revise tariffs annually (or every five years if the draft regulatory framework prevails) as long
as they do not exceed a ceiling defined in US$. Therefore, in case of a Peso depreciation, he would be
allowed to increase tariffs so as to maintain them constant in US$. This mechanism provides an adequate
protection against a depreciation as illustrated in the table below.
IRR to investors              Annual exchange rate real depreciation
-2%                 -5%             -7.5%
Without tariff revisions             15.0%                7.3%             -3.8%
With 5-yearly tariff revisions  23.3% (base case)        22.9%            22.4%
However, it is likely that, if tariffs are increased, the company will suffer from a fall in collection rates, as
customers maintain their payments more or less constant in Dominican Pesos. Even in that case, the
project appears relatively robust to an exchange rate movement if tariffs can be revised every 5 years.
With water bills +/-    Annual exchange rate real depreciation
constant in Pesos       -2% (base case)            -5%                 -7.5%
IRRofFCF                    26.1%                 21.2%                 17.1%
IRR to investors            23.3%                 20.8%                 18.1%
Investment cost overrun
Although our base case scenario already includes a 15% contingency over cost estimates produced by
consultants, we conducted a sensitivity analysis on the effect of an additional cost overrun, to which the
project appears relatively robust.
Increase in annual capex above base case
0% (base case)            5%                    10%
IRR of FCF                  26.1%                 23.0%                20.3%
IRR to investors            23.3%                 21.9%                 20.5%
Terms of long term debt
If the SIL did not materialize, the private operator would have to find some alternative commercial long-
term financing in order to finance the required investments. Depending on his financial soundness and
market reach, the terms of the debt may vary. We conducted two sensitivities, one using the same interest
rate for all long term debts (8.5%), assuming the operator has no difficulty to raise additional financing at
that commercial rate. In the second sensitivity, we imagined the operator could only raise additional
finance at a higher cost of 15%. This sensitivity highlights the importance of benefiting from the SIL for
some potential operators who may not enjoy an easy access to capital market or bank financing,
especially if collection rates do not improve as required.



Page 54
Interest rate on LT debt to be originated in SIL
-IRR to investors                        6.25% (base case)      8.5%          15%
Base case scenario                            23.3%            23.0%         22.5%
With residential collection rate 10% lower    17.4%             17.2%        15.8%
With residential collection rate 20% lower    12.2%             11.9%        8.8%
Conclusion
Although the PSP company appears viable under the conditions set forth in the draft bidding documents
without Government subsidy, it is likely that the future private operator will negotiate some additional
financial comfort to protect his revenues from the risk that collection rates do not improve sufficiently,
especially following the sharp required tariff increase. Such comfort could take the form of a better
operating performance if the operator is able to operate with a lower number of employees, or to negotiate
better commercial terms for the purchase of energy or can find more efficient power sources,...
However, it cannot be excluded that the local circumstances prevent such higher performance to be
achieved, in which case the operator would most probably request a direct subsidy from the Government,
possibly tied to the implementation of required investments or conditional on achieved collection rates. If
such comfort was not granted to the operator one way or the other, the risk could not be excluded that he
would not be in a position to finance all required investments.
The analysis above also underlines the importance of educating the population to the necessity of paying
for the future improved water and sewerage services. As regards the latter, we received reassurance that
(i) if collection rates are so low at present it is because people are not charged for the water they consume
rather than because they do not pay their water bill and (ii) the willingness to pay for water services will
improve strongly as the quality of service improves under the management of the private operator.
Finally, the analysis underlines the necessity to provide protection for the poor in order to ascertain that
the new tariffs remain affordable to them. Cross- or direct subsidizes may have to be used for instance,
along the lines of our second altemative tariff structure.



Page 55
Table 5A: Future Water and Sewerage Company, key financials
Future water and sewerage private company, Puerto Plata, Sosua and Cabarete
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2010    2015   2020   2021
Income statement items
Total revenues        3,230  3,882   6,560  7,832   9,783  10,851  13,443   14,984  17,641  17,630
Total operating costs   (3,956) (4,440) (4,934) (5,437) (6,077) (6,635) (7,421)  (8,169) (9,063) (9,189)
Operating income      (727)  (557)  1,626  2,395   3,706  4,216   6,022   6,815   8,577   8,441
Net interest income    (55)     31      43    (12)   (74)  (128)  (325)   (235)  (135)  (122)
Depreciation              0      0    (76)  (152)  (225)  (378) (1,093)  (1,745) (1,984) (1,995)
Pre-tax income        (781)  (527)  1,593  2,231   3,407   3,710   4,603    4,835   6,458   6,324
Taxes                     0      0   (478)  (669) (1,022) (1,113) (1,381)  (1,450) (1,937) (1,897)
Netincome             (781)  (527)  1,115   1,562  2,385  2,597   3,222   3,384  4,521   4,427
Main balance sheet
items
Net fixed assets          0      0   1,936  3,796   5,583   9,384 24,283  32,874 31,369  30,470
Current assets        2,028   2,644  2,904    129    132    135    146        158    171    174
Total assets          2,028   2,644  4,840   3,925   5,715  9,519  24,429  33,032 31,541  30,644
Total equity          1,219   1,692   3,807   2,594  4,235   6,352  19,024  29,158  29,170 28,436
LT debt                   0      0       0      0       0  1,533   3,379    1,779    294      83
Total liabilities       810    952  1,033   1,330   1,479   3,166   5,404   3,874   2,371   2,208
Total liabilities and  2,028   2,644  4,840  3,925  5,715   9,519 24,429  33,032  31,541  30,644
equity
Key financial ratios
Exchange rate          15.6   15.9   16.2   16.6   16.9   17.2   19.0    21.0   23.2   23.7
Long term debt / capital  0      0       0      0       0    0.2    0.2       0.1    0.0    0.0
Total liabilities I capital  0.7    0.6    0.3    0.5    0.3    0.5    0.3    0.1    0.1    0.1
Current ratio           2.5    2.8    2.8    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1         0.1    0.1    0.1
Debt service ratio      NA      NA    18.2   25.6   36.4   24.2    8.2        8.4   17.3   19.6
Discount rate          12%
IRR of business      26.1%
NPV of business       4,545
ROI to investors     23.3%
NPV to investors      4,263
Key operational ratios
Employees per 1000
connections            6.83    6.53    6.25    5.98    5.72    5.53    5.25  5.02    4.84    4.80
Revenues / employees   13.8   16.6   28.0   33.5   41.8   46.4   57.4    64.0   75.4   75.3
Operating costs/      122%   114%    75%    69%    62%    61%    55%         55%    51%    52%
revenues
Operating costs growth  0%    12%    11%    10%    12%        9%     2%       2%      3%     1%
Personnel costs /      32%    34%    31%    28%    25%    23%    23%         23%    23%    23%
operating costs
Unaccounted for water  40%    39%    37%    36%    34%    33%    24%         24%    24%    24%
Average collection rate    54%    63%    63%    72%    79%    85%    89%     88%    88%    88%
Metering rate          16%    24%    32%    40%    48%    56%    96%    100%   100%   100%
Average connection     88%    89%    90%    91 %    93%    93%    94%        95%    95%    95%
rate, water



Page 56
Average connection   35%   42%   49%   56%   63%   66%   70%    75%    76%   76%
rate, sewerage
Annex 6    Procurement and Financial Management Arrangements
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
Procurement
This loan provides funds to the Government of the Dominican Republic to: (i) construct an innovative
small diameter submarine outfall for disposal of the wastewater of Sosua and the supporting systems to
connect the outfall to the Sosua sewerage network, and (ii) implement an innovative institutional model
based on PSP in provision of the water supply and wastewater services in the Puerto Plata/Sosua/Cabarete
region. The PCU is located in the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, which is not an executing
agency and does not have experience and tradition in procurement. To strengthen the capacity of the
PCU to manage the project and handle procurement, a specialized consulting firm will be hired, as
mentioned earlier. This firm would have expertise in implementation of water and sewerage projects and
in the Bank's procurement procedures and it would provide: (i) assistance in all the stages of procurement
cycles which will be implemented under the project; (ii) training in procurement; (iii) supervision and
quality assurance; and (iv) procurement capacity building.
Consulting services, goods and works for IBRD-financed activities would be procured respectively in
accordance with the provisions of the World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999, and the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in
January 1995 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The procurement arrangements for the
project components are described below and summarized in the Tables A and B.
The activities expected to be implemented and financed under the project are the following:
G Geophysical studies;
- Oceanographic studies,
- Preliminary design of the submarine outfall;
- Preliminary design of the wastewater pretreatment installations;
- Detailed design of collectors, pumping stations and pretreatment installations;
* Supervision of on-shore works;
* Supervision of outfall construction, including environmental supervision;
* Supply of pumping equipment and of equipment for the UASB plant;
* Supply of equipment for pretreatment of wastewater;
* Supply of pipes;
* Construction of the submarine outfall under a turn key contract, including detailed design;
* Construction of the collectors, pumping stations, preliminary treatment and UASB plant;
* Preparation of the PSP process;
* Carrying out a program of coastal waters monitoring before and after the construction of the
outfall;
* Preparation of two seminars for training and dissemination of technology and PSP
development experience;
* Preparation of "small diameter outfall design manual";
* Hiring of a specialized consulting firm to assist in project management, implementation,
procurement, environmental control and financial management;
* Hiring consulting services for carrying out an annual procurement audit;
* Hiring of a consulting firm to assist in hiring the private operator;



Page 57
* Environmental awareness program;
Preparation and implementation of environmental training programs;
* Consulting services for assisting in establishing the control and supervision mechanism of the
PSP contract.
Works
Only two work contracts are envisaged under the project: (i) construction of the submarine outfall; and
(ii) construction of all other systems including installation of the main sewage collectors, pumping
stations, and wastewater treatment installations. Contract (i) will be a turn key contract and will include
preparation of detailed design by the contractor, supply of all the materials and execution of all works.
This contract, estimated to cost about US$ 1.56 million, will be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures since there is no expertise in the country to undertake such a
contract. Contract (ii) with an estimated value of about US$ 1.0 million, which includes simple works of
installation of sewerage pipes, small pumping station and small wastewater treatment equipment, will be
procured through ICB as well. Both contracts will be procured under a single bidding process, with
provisions to award the two packages to one bidder or two.
Goods
The project would finance the purchase of goods such as pipes, pumping equipment, wastewater
treatment equipment, standby power generators, chemical and bacteriological laboratory equipment,
transformers for connecting installations to the power network, computers, office equipment, instruments
for oceanographic measurements and vehicles. Goods estimated to cost more than US$ 250,000 would be
procured through ICB procedures. Goods estimated to cost less than US$250,000 and more than
US$50,000 would be procured following National competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using bidding
documents which would be approved by the Bank. Goods purchased in packages estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 each would be procured through international or national shopping.
Consultant services/studies/technology dissemination and training
The project would finance: (i) implementation of oceanographic studies; (ii) geophysical study of the sea
bed to define the alignment of the submarine outfall; (iii) preliminary design of the outfall; (iv)
preliminary design of treatment installations (v) detailed design of collectors, pumping stations and
treatment installation, (vi) supervision of on-shore works, (vii) supervision of the submarine outfall
construction; (viii) hiring of top-level experts recommended by PAHO to review the outfall design and
construction, prepare a design manual of small diameter outfalls and provide training services; (ix)
monitoring of coastal waters quality (including sampling and laboratory analyses activities); (x)
consulting services for preparation of the process of PSP in the provision of services, (xi) consulting
services for management and implementation of the entire project, including procurement and financial
management, (xii) consulting services of an environmental specialist; and (xiii) consulting services for
performing an annual procurement audit; (xiv) the fixed term consultants in the PCU; (xv) consulting
services for an environmental training and awareness program and (xvi) consulting services for assisting
in establishing the control and supervision of the PSP contract.
The proposed procurement packages for the consulting services are the following:
* Services of oceanographic and geophysical studies would be awarded to one consulting firm
and will be procured utilizing QCBS procedures (i and ii above);
* Preliminary designs of the outfall would be awarded to an individual consultant as per Bank
Guidelines 5.1 through 5.3 (iii above);



Page 58
*  Preliminary design of the treatment installations and detailed design of collectors, pumping
stations and treatment installations, and supervision of on-shore works, as well as supervision
of the construction of the outfall would be awarded to one consulting firm and will be
procured utilizing QCBS procedures (iv, v, vi and vii above);
*  The hiring of the top-level experts recommended by PAHO to review the outfall design and
construction, prepare the small outfalls design manual and provide training services would be
done on a single source basis. This is justified, in agreement with paragraph 3.9 of the
Bank's guidelines, by the fact that PAHO's experts have experience of exceptional worth for
the assignment as a result of its unique experience in the region and sector (viii above);
*  The activities of monitoring of the coastal water quality would be awarded to one consulting
firm on the basis of QCBS procedures (ix above);
*  Assistance in carrying out the pre-qualification and bidding processes for selecting the private
operator will be provided by a consulting firm which will be hired utilizing QCBS procedures
(x above),
*  The hiring of consulting services for management and implementation of the entire project,
including procurement and financial management, as well as of consulting services of an
environmental specialist would be awarded to one consulting firm and will be procured
utilizing QCBS procedures (xi and xii above)
-  The consulting services for performing an annual procurement audit will be awarded to a
consulting firm utilizing the fixed budget selection procedure (xiii above);
-  The PCU staff will be hired under individual consultants' procedures as per Bank Guidelines
5.1 through 5.3 (xiv above);
-  The hiring of consultants for the environmental training and awareness program will be done
as per Bank Guidelines 5.1 through 5.3 (xv above);
*  The hiring of consultants to help establish the mechanism for control and supervision of the
PSP contract will be done as per Bank Guidelines 5.1 through 5.3.
Procurement costs by procurement arrangements are presented in Table A on page 60.
Bank prior review
Table B on page 62 summarizes the thresholds for procurement methods and prior Bank review. These
arrangement would result in prior review by the Bank of practically all the Bank financed contracts.
Procurement Audits
An independent annual procurement audit will be carried out for the first two years of the project, to
review procurement methods.
Financial Management
Disbursement
It is expected that the proposed IBRD loan would be disbursed based on Project Management Reports
(PMRs). However, until the project is considered capable of producing PMRs in a timely and effective
manner, disbursements will be based on the traditional disbursement method. The loan closing date
would be June 30, 2003. The allocation of loan proceeds is provided in Table C on page 60. The loan
will be disbursed against (i) civil works at a rate of 100% for foreign expenditures and 30% of local
expenditures; (ii) purchase of goods at a rate of 30%; and (iii) consulting services at a rate of 100% for all
studies, designs, engineering, technical assistance and training.



Page 59
Special Account
A Special Account in US dollars will be established, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, at
the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic authorized to maintain an account in US$. Total advances at
any given time would not be allowed to exceed the authorized allocation of US$ 1 million, representing
20% of the amount of the loan, once disbursing via PMRs, or $500,000 under traditional disbursements.
Replenishments of the Special Account, under the traditional disbursement method would be fully
documented except for the following contracts which may be disbursed on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs):
* Goods costing less than $ 50,000 equivalent,
*  Works costing less than US$ 250,000;
* Consulting services (firms) costing less than $ 50,000;
* Consulting services (individuals) costing less than $ 30,000;
* Training and workshops (all contracts).
Under PMR-based disbursements, the Special Account would be replenished at least quarterly, based on
the budget presented in the (PMRs), to assure liquidity of funds, and all replenishment applications would
be accompanied by reconciled statements from the bank in which the account is maintained, showing all
transactions in the Special Account. Supporting documentation would be maintained by the PCU for at
least one fiscal year after the year in which the last disbursement from the loan took place, and would be
available for Bank staff and independent auditors review.
Reportinn
From the year 2000, the PCU would prepare and forward to the Bank quarterly PMRs (respectively by
January 31, April 31, July 31 and October 31 of each year) on the status of implementation of the project.
The content of the PMR would be discussed and finalized by the date of effectiveness. The consulting
firm that installed the financial management system, or another qualified consultant, will also assist in
designing the report. By July 31 of each year, beginning in 2000, the PCU would prepare and forward to
the Bank an annual implementation plan detailing project activities contemplated for the subsequent
calendar year, and outlining counterpart funding requirements. These estimates of counterpart funding
requirements would form the basis for budgetary requests by the respective agencies during the annual
formulation of the national budget.
Not later than six months prior to project completion, the Bank and the PCU would collaborate in
producing: (i) an Operational Plan, indicating how project impact would be sustained; and (ii) an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to assess project effectiveness and its contribution to the
improvement of sanitation services and environmental management in the Puerto PlatalSosua/Cabarete
region.
Financial Management. Accounting and Auditing
Bank specialists from LCOAA and LOAEL were heavily involved in project preparation and appraisal,
including participation in a number of missions. During this time, an Action Plan was agreed upon with
the Borrower. It was agreed, consistent with the need for swift project startup and in recognition of the
relative unfamiliarity by the staff of the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency with the Bank's operating
procedures and financial management standards, that the PCU. with the assistance of a financial
consulting firm would establish an adequate financial management system. The system is now in place,
but needs to be fed with relevant inputs and to be finalized.



Page 60
The PCU will maintain separate project accounts in accordance with accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to the Bank. Supporting documentation will be kept by the PCU for at least one year after the
final disbursement of funds for the project. Project accounts maintained by the PCU would be audited
annually by independent chartered auditors acceptable to the Bank. No later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year, the PCU would submit to the Bank copies of audit reports containing separate
auditors' opinions on project accounts, PMRs and the Special Account. Detailed terms of reference for
the auditors will be prepared following the guidelines included in the World Bank's Financial Accounting
Reporting and Auditing Handbook.
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
In US$ million equivalent
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method                 Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB        Other       N.B.F
1. Works
- Sosua Wastewater System      2.58                                          2.58
works (sewerage,              (1.56)'                                       (1.56)
wastewater treatment and
disposal)
2. Goods
- Pipes, pumping equipment     1.93                                          1.93
and wastewater treatment      (0.47)                                        (0.47)
equipment
3. Services
- Studies, designs, PSP                              2.532                   2.53
preparation, Coastal waters                         (2.53)                  (2.53)
monitoring
4. Miscellaneous
- PCU operating costs (staff)                        0.283                   0.28
(0.28)                 (0.28)
-PSP contract control and                            0.114                   0.11
supervision                                         (0. 11)                 (0.11)
- Training                                           0.055                   0.05
(0.05)                 (0.05)
Total
4.51                  2.97                   7.496
(2.03)                (2.97)                 (5.00)
Notes:    1. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan,
2. Various selection methods will be used including QCBS, selection of individual
consultants and single source contracting,



Page 61
3. Financing of the PCU staff, which will be selected under individual consultants
procedures;
4. The hiring of consultants to help establish the mechanism for control and supervision of
the PSP contract will be done as per Bank Guidelines 5.1 through 5.3;
5. Preparation of two seminars for dissemination of technology, and training expenses for
selected staff to participate in other training courses (travel, subsistence and fees);
6. Excluding front-end fee.
Annex 6, Table Al, Consultant Selection Arrangements
In US$ million equivalent
Selection Method                         Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                 (including
Expenditure Category                                                                contingencies)
QCBS      QBS      SFB     LCS      CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms             2.29                0.05                                       2.34
(2.29)             (0.05                                      (2.34)
B. Individuals                                                     0.58             0.58
(0.58)           (0.58)
Total 2.34                                          0.58             2.98
(2.34)                                       (0.58)           (2.98)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), single source selection.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 62
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value             Procurement                  Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)                 Method                Prior Review / Estimated Total
Value Subject to Prior Review
US $ thousands                                              US $ millions
1. Works
Submarine outfall  ICB                                       All/2.58
contract
>3,000         ICB                                      A11/0
250-3,000       NCB                                       All/0
<250          Quotations (at least 3)        First contract/0
2. Goods
>250          ICB                                    . All/1.78
50-250        NCB                                       All/0. 15
<50          International and National    First contract/0.05
Shopping
3. Services
(a) Consulting Firms          >200           QCBS                                     All/2.34
50-200         QCBS/Fixed Budget/Single                 All/0
source
<50          Consultant Qualification       Review of TORs only
(b) Individual                 >30           According to section V of                All/0.58*
Consultants                                  Consultants' Guidelines
<30          According to section V of    Review of TORs only
Consultants' Guidelines
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                                         7.43
* Specific contracts such as those of the top-level experts hired to prepare the small diameter outfalls design manual and of the
CCC members will be awarded on a single source basis.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
........ .  .. ., , . ..., .   .. _..... ..... ... .. . ..... .  .......- ----....... -------------------------..............................  .............- - ......... . _._ -- - - - -------    ---------------------.... .. .. ........ ....._. 
Expenditure Category                 Amount in US$                  Financing Percentage
million
Civil Works                                         1.80                 100% of foreign expenditures
30% of local expenditures
Goods                                               0.50                              30%
Consulting Services                                 2.44                             100%
Training                                            0.21                             100%
Front-end Fee                                       0.05                100% payable to the Bank upon
effectiveness
Total                                               5.00



Page 63
Annex 7    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$50,000                47,500
B. Project Schedule                              Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             07/21/1998             07/21/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     05/02/1999             08/22/1999
Negotiations                                    05/10/1999             11/01/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      /J/19                _/_/19
Prepared by: Secretaria Tecnico de la Presidencia
Preparation assistance: Japanese Trust Funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Menahem Libhaber                          Task Manager, Sr. Water and Sanitation Engineer
Oscar Alvarado                            Co-Task Manager, Sr. Water Engineer
Ede Ijjasz                               Environment and Water Resources Specialist
Juan Quintero                             EA, Sr. Environmental Specialist
Maria Elena Castro                        Social Specialist
Sophie Sirtaine                           Financial Analyst
Philip Gray                               Private Sector Development Specialist
Issam Abousleiman                         Financial Management Specialist
Daniel Boyce                              Financial Management Specialist
Vladimir Jadrijevic                       Sr. Procurement Specialist
Maria Victoria Lister                     Quality Assurance Officer
Michael Fowler                            Disbursement Specialist
Lucia Villalobos                          Disbursement Officer
Daria Goldstein                           Counsel
Klas Ringskog                             Peer reviewer
Jordan Schwartz                           Peer reviewer



Page 64
Annex 8    Environmental Assessment Summary
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
Introduction
To assist the Government of the Dominican Republic in addressing the problems related to water
pollution in the Puerto Plata, Sosua and Cabarete tourist area, the project will develop a cost-effective
approach to comprehensive wastewater management and water pollution control. The region of Puerto
Plata, Sosua and Cabarete is one of the most important tourist destinations in the Dominican Republic.
Known as the North Coast, this area has been largely developed by private investors and presently
contains 197 hotels with a total of 14,698 rooms available. Sosua comprises 38% of the regions hotel
capacity or 4,425 rooms. The project will include investments for the collection, treatment and final
disposal of domestic sewage.
Wastewater management needs for the Sosua area have reached critical levels. Water and sanitation
infrastructure for both the hotel investment community and the population in general is urgently needed to
reverse the continuing trends in local resource degradation. To address the problem, the Government of
The Dominican Republic has constructed a wastewater treatment plant in the vicinity of the International
Airport of Sosua. To connect this system with the Sosua sewerage network and provide for the ultimate
discharge of waste from the plant, the Government of the Dominican Republic is seeking a Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL) from the World Bank. The purpose of this loan is to connect the Sosua
community to the wastewater treatment system and construct a small diameter submarine discharge from
the treatment plant to adjacent marine waters at a depth of 140 meters. This discharge is designed to
provide for ultimate disposal of Sosua wastewater in a safe and cost effective manner with minimum
associated environmental impacts. Innovations in institutional improvements will also be piloted in the
LIL, by involving the private sector in the provision of the water, sewerage and solid wastes services in
the region.
When completed, the proposed LIL would: (i) improve water sewerage and drainage services in the
region by connecting the existing sewerage system to the treatment and disposal facilities; (ii) contribute
to environmental cleanup and protection of the coastal area by providing installations for controlling
pollution of sensitive beaches and aquatic ecosystems; (iii) support the application of new institutional
arrangements with private sector participation; and (iv) provided local officials with a learning experience
in the siting, design, construction and operation of small diameter, deep submarine discharges. The
experience gained in this LIL operation might be used to assist in resolving similar environmental
problems in other tourism centers in the Dominican Republic under a follow up Sector Investment Loan
(SIL) operation.
Because of the potential for significant environmental impacts, this project was classified as Category A
under the World Bank environmental classification system and a full Environmental Assessment (EA)
was carried out following terms of reference agreed with the Bank. The environmental impact study was
undertaken by a team of local and international consultants contracted by he Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) of the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (Unidad Coordinadora del Programa, Secretaria
T6cnico de la Presidencia). This report was submitted to the PCU for detailed review and is available in
the PCU's offices and other offices in the Technical Secretariat. Formal Bank review of the final reports
was carried out before appraisal and they conform fully to Bank policy guidelines regarding
environmental and social issues. The report has been made available in the Public Information Center of
the World Bank in Washington.



Page 65
Legal Framework
The most environmentally and socially sensitive component of the proposed project will be the
construction and operation of an ocean outfall discharging into the Caribbean Sea. The Dominican
Republic does not have water quality standards for domestic sewage discharges through ocean outfalls.
The most stringent water quality standards for total and fecal coliforms in surface waters with potential
recreational uses were adopted for this project. These standards are shown in Table 1 and were adopted
as conditions to be met in all recreational beaches under outfall operation at the end of the design period.
Table 1
Bacterial Standards for Recreational Water Use
(NMP/100 ml)
Parameter         Primary Contact    Secondary
Contact
Total Coliforms   1000             | 5000
Fecal Coliforms   200                1000
Existing Sanitation Conditions
The development of the Sosua tourism industry began in the 1970's with the majority of investment
occurring after 1980. Waste management systems are largely private and local to the individual hotel
sites. As a result public, community services are virtually non- existent. Wastewater management
technologies employed in Sosua reflect older (pre 1970) technologies. Wastewater management for the
majority of the hotels consists of septic systems discharging to local infiltration ditches. Depending on
the proximity to the coast and the size of the hotel, discharges often overwhelm the assimilative capacity
of the soils. In many cases, sanitary wastes surface to the topsoil with the rising tide, often saturating the
surface in the area of the leaching field.
Induced development or secondary development in Sosua has followed the hotel industry. Shops,
restaurants, housing and other commercial developments have sprung up, usually without benefit of
planning or supporting infrastructure. In these cases, wastewater management largely consists of
underground discharges, with or without benefit of septic systems, or surface discharges to river or ocean
receiving waters. In Sosua, these systems serve an estimated population of 32,000 inhabitants.
Environmental Setting
The project location is in the area of Sosua, Dominican Republic. As part of the North Coast tourism
zone, the area has been a popular tourist destination for over 30 years. Over this time, the level of tourism
investment has grown and the population of the region has increased as a result of secondary
development. As part of the North Coast system, Sosua represents approximately 30% of the region's
tourism investment.
Physical Environment
Physically, the region is a coastal zone composed of a rough, rocky coast with a series of beach bays
distributed between the coastal cliffs that dominate the area. This structure proceeds westward from
Sosua toward Cabarete where the landscape changes in character from cliff coast to beaches bordered by
sand dunes. South of the project area the terrain is initially composed of a flat, coastal plain for
approximately 10 Km where it encounters a karstic ridge system which rises abruptly from the plain. In
general, the area from the mountains to the coast is composed of a series of wetlands sustained by the
freshwater discharge from the mountainous limestone formations. A coastal highway heading east - west
is generally located in the area of a coastal dune system, which generally serves to maintain the wetlands



Page 66
to the south. Development in the area is largely distributed in a narrow belt between the highway and the
coast due to the proximity of the beaches. Land use to the south of the road is largely agricultural with
the majority of agriculture in the form of sugar cane.
In the vicinity of the coast, soils vary in depth lying on a substrate of limestone. Groundwater levels are
close to the surface and occur in sandy soils with high transmission rates. Sea level influence on
groundwater levels is strong and groundwater rises and falls with the tide. As waters approach the coast,
saltwater contamination rises rendering these waters unsuitable for consumption. Winds are
predominantly from the northwest and rainfall in the area averages 1,446 mm per year.
Biological Environment
Biologically, the project area is heavily disturbed as human has converted most areas. There are remnant
patches of local plant communities located in the vicinity of the airport and along stream drainage in the
area. These remaining plant communities are also heavily disturbed. Bordering the project area to the
south, between the mountains and the coastal highway are a series of interconnected wetlands. This area
is largely composed of sedges, rushes, and grasses, which grow on a thin soil over lying the ancient beach
area. These wetlands are subject to periodic flooding after heavy rains and from the tidal cycle. Fresh
groundwater occurs below the surface and rises and falls with the tide.
The near shore coast is composed of rocky cliffs dotted with occasional beaches. The marine systems
near-shore are a mixture of patch reefs and rocky coast communities depending on local conditions.
Development and human intervention has greatly damaged the existing reef systems in the region. One
notable exception is the reef located north of the International Airport. This system covers approximately
4 Km. and occurs from a depth of approximately 3-m to 30 m. This reef is one of the two systems
important to the SCUBA industry of the region. Endangered species in the area are limited to sea turtles,
which are infrequently found in the project area.
Socioeconomic Environment
Economically, the project area is dominated by the tourism industry. This is the principal source of
income for local inhabitants and provides a significant source of revenue for the Dominican Republic in
general. Other industries in the region include associated commercial development and sugar cane
agriculture. By far, the majority of inhabitants derive their living, either directly or indirectly from the
tourism sector within the project area. Public health is generally good and the local citizens experience a
relatively comfortable standard of living. Invasion of land and lack of suitable waste management
infrastructure (solid waste and sanitary wastes) continue to present a threat to local environmental quality.
This is expected to increase with the expansion of the tourism investment in the region.
Analysis ofAlternatives
Wastewater Collection
Alternatives for the main collection system were not considered under this study as the collection system
is to be connected with the existing sewerage network and the pumping stations and location of new
connections is dictated entirely by engineering requirements. Aside from the usual impacts associated
with construction, such as noise, dust etc. no significant impacts associated with the collection of wastes
were identified.
Wastewater Treatment
Several alternatives were examined for the design of the pre-treatment plant to be constructed under this
project. Plant siting was dictated by the location of the existing treatment plant and alternate sites were
not considered. Technology to be employed in the pre-treatment of wastes was examined from the



Page 67
perspective of: (i) engineering feasibility and costs, (ii) maintenance, operation and sustainability, and
(iii) the ability to achieve acceptable discharge standards from both health and environmental
perspectives. Of the technologies evaluated, consideration was given to advanced technologies and
technologies requiring chemical treatments. These were eliminated form further consideration based on
costs and realities associated with local operation and maintenance of such systems.
Given the construction of the existing plant, treatment alternatives focused on 3 basic options. These
were: Alternative 1: use the existing Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket (UASB) reactor plant and install
solids and grease removal systems in the form of a pretreatment facility; Alternative 2: modify the
existing plant to include solids and grease removal capability; and Alternative 3: provide treatment for
solids and grease and discharge effluents directly, bypassing the existing UASB plant.
Alternative 1 was selected as the most cost effective and, because of the improved treatment of wastes
prior to discharge, represented the most desirable option in terms of reductions in discharge contaminants.
Additionally, the no-action alternative was evaluated and found to be unsuitable based on the current
conditions and anticipated future growth for the region. The socioeconomic impacts of a no-action
alternative were considered major and unacceptable.
Final Disposal
Options for final discharge of treated wastewater included the following: (i) groundwater injection; (ii)
discharge to surface receiving waters; (iii) rPCUse of wastewater for irrigation; and (iv) submarine
discharge. Local geology and physical characteristics of the area eliminated options I and 2 from
consideration. Groundwater injection is limited to discharge to subsurface soils. Bedrock limestone
occurs close to the surface and the local soil/groundwater regime does not have sufficient capacity to
accept the projected discharge loads. RPCUse of wastewater for irrigation is an appealing alternative,
however there is no regional demand for such a system. As a result, submarine discharge became the
option of choice both from a cost and management perspective.
Based on the above findings, the environmental analysis focused on the submarine discharge. Using the
original engineering recommendations as the basis for the evaluation, a review of the proposed discharge
site revealed the presence of an important coral reef system in the project area. After discussion with the
project engineers, four alternative locations for the submarine discharge were developed. The criteria
employed were to identify locations which: (i) protected waters likely to be used by citizens and tourists
from excess bacterial contamination; (ii) protected beach and coastal areas from excess contamination;
(iii) protect the reef from excess nitrogen and phosphate discharges; (iv) minimized or eliminated
construction and operation impacts to the reef system; and (v) minimized construction costs. Four
candidate locations for submarine discharge were identified within the project area. These were:
Alternative 1: Directly north of the treatment plant, to a water depth of 140 meters.
Alternative 2: From a point at the eastern end of the airport and north to a depth of 40 meters.
Alternative 3: From Punta Sosua north to a depth of 40 meters (west of point 2).
Alternative 4: A point at the western end of the airport north to a depth of 40 meters (Calet6n).
In the evaluation of these alternative locations, alternative 3 was eliminated as it crossed the diving reef
and presented possible significant economic and biological impacts. Alternative 4 was eliminated based
on greatly increased costs. Alternative 2 was environmentally acceptable but presented construction
difficulties and slight risks to the reef system. Alternative I was considered best based on costs and



Page 68
biological considerations. Key to the selection of this alternative was the depth proposed for the
discharge. At below 100 meters, this discharge falls in an area where long-shore ocean currents provide a
strong potential for rapid lateral dispersion of discharged materials. Furthermore, at the depth proposed,
the discharge lies below a density gradient and thermocline restricting the discharge distribution to waters
below 100 meters. In summary, the proposed location (alternative 1) was selected based on the
following: (i) contaminants restricted to below the thermnocline and density gradient, i.e., below 100
meters; (ii) deep currents carry contaminants away from coastal areas; (iii) dilution takes place very
rapidly and contaminants likely to affect only the area immediately adjacent to the discharge site; and (iv)
no significant biological communities exist in the proposed location.
Recommended Alternative
Based on the evaluation of environmental impacts and engineering constraints, the recommended
alternative for sanitary waste management for Sosua is shown in the following box.
Wastewater Management for Sosua
The design and construction of the main waste conveyance system from the serviced community to the treatment
plant site. Gravity drainage systeins will be employed where possible and the entire system will include the installation
of 5 punping stations. Service will be connected to the Sosua Airport, The community of La Uni6n, and the coimnunity
of Sosua. Population projections for the service area by the year 2020 are estimated at about 48,000 local year round
residents and a population of approximately 17,000 tourists. This results in a projected population of about 65,000. The
collection network will serve approximately 83% of the community.
Improvements to the existing treatment plant to remove grease, oils and solids. This treatment plant will be
improved with the addition of a pre-treatment system to include the removal of large solids, installation of
micro-strainers for fine solids removal and a system for the removal of floating solids and grease. Solids collected from
the pre-treatment system will be deposited in the regional solid waste landfill proposed under a different LIL. The
design of the pre-treatment unit will include the installation of an emergency by-pass system to be used, if necessary,
during system maintenance operations. The pre-treatment system is to be located within the area of the existing plant
and will discharge through this plant to the submarine disposal system.
The construction of a submarine outfall for disposal of the treatment plant effluent. The final part of the wastewater
treatment system proposed in this project consists of a small diaineter submarine outfall designed to transmit wastes from
the treatment plant to a location due north of the plant at a depth of 140 meters. In the development of the criteria for
this discharge, a series of four scenarios were considered in the design and location of this discharge. The submarine
outfall planned for this project became the principal focus of this enviromnental assessment, as this is the one component
of the project with potential significant negative environmental impacts. During the development of this study, the
previously proposed location for the discharge was found unsatisfactory as the impacts of its construction and operation
would have affected one of the two important coral reef systems in the region.
Environmental Impacts
Based on the implementation of the proposed alternative, the environmental impacts anticipated are
considered minor. Project feasibility and environmental studies identified water quality as perhaps the
most important concern for the installation of an ocean outfall in the region. Field studies and subsequent
dispersion modeling efforts indicate that the selected outfall site and depth meets proposed bacteriological
standards. Toxic materials and heavy metals in the area's wastewater are practically non-existent given
the tourism vocation of the area. There are no heavy polluting industry located in the area. Regardless of
the low risk from toxic materials and heavy metals in sewage, the establishment of new industries within
the city limits should be closely monitored and existing industrial and commercial facilities connected to
the sewerage network should reduce or eliminate hannful substances.



Page 69
Principal concerns initially raised on the project's impact on bio-diversity resources in the area are related
to the impacts on the coral reef Water quality and ocean dispersion models proved beyond any doubt
that solids or nutrients from the outfall discharge would not adversely affect the reef. The depth of the
discharge point greatly eliminates marine biological impacts except in the immediate vicinity of the
discharge area, while the rapid dispersion and dilution of the discharge further limits this impact.
The project will include preliminary treatment facilities to remove objectionable solids and floating
materials, in addition to the UASB treatment plant. Therefore, sedimentation of organic materials is
expected to be of low magnitude and importance. The depth of the discharge point together with the low
content of toxic materials and heavy metals in the effluent discharge further reduce the risk of
accumulation of toxic materials or the risk of biological assimilation.
Other minor environmental impacts identified are largely associated with the impacts of construction,
some minor disturbance of the coastal vegetation and alteration of the submarine community in the
immediate vicinity of the submarine discharge pipe. Construction, operation and maintenance of the
wastewater treatment system represent the principal sources of potential negative environmental impacts
resulting form the project. Poor construction promoting leakage of transmission lines, failure of the
operator to properly dispose of solids collected from the system and failure to maintain the submarine
discharge in good working order are the principal risks from the project.
Mitigation of Impacts and Costs
The mitigation of the environmental impacts associated with this project are largely related to ensuring
that the design and construction is adequately implemented, personnel is adequately trained and that the
operation of the facility complies with the project requirements over the life of the project. Based on the
implementation of the recommended altemative, the design and operation of the system, as conceived, are
relatively simple. If constructed adequately, the project will likely present a minimum of maintenance
costs to the operator. The need for preventative maintenance activities is largely limited to servicing
pumps, periodic pipe inspection, and the operation of the treatment plant. All environmental
requirements will be included in operator's bidding documents and contracts.
The summary of environmental management costs is presented in the following table. The total costs for
the environmental component are estimated at $313,000 to be expended over the life of the project. Costs
and activities are divided among the Planning and Design Phase of the project and the operational phase.
A Technical Advisory Committee (different from the Advisory Committee) will supervise technical and
environmental aspects of the project.
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION COSTS
Phase       kMitigation                 Responsible    Costs     |Supervision   Period
PLANNING   Develop environmental        Consultants    5,000      PCU*         2 weeks
AND          requirements and environmental
DESIGN       contract clauses for the project
bidding documents and contracts
Environmental evaluation of    Consultants    2,000  PCU          1 week
contract proposals
Environmental supervision and  Teclnical  Budgeted                Life of the
compliance inspection over the  Advisory  under                  project
life of the project        Committee     project
operation



Page 70
Phase         Mitigation                   Responsible    Costs       Supervision   Period
Training and strengthening of    Consultants    15,000  PCU           3 months
the Technical Advisory
Committee
Equipment, laboratory        Technical      60,000      PCU           6 months
agreements and inspection    Advisory
support facilities           Committee
Public education campaign and   Asociaci6n de   36,000  PCU           12 months
public participation program  Desarrollo de
Sosua
Training of local staff      Consultants    55,000      PCU           12 monthis
OPERATION  Enviromnental supervision and   Technical      140,000
compliance inspection over the   Advisory
life of the project          Committee                            .
TOTAL (JS$)                                               313,000
* PCU - Unidad Ejecutora del proyecto (Project Implementation Unit)



Page 71
Annex 9    Technical notes on the marine outfall
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
This annex presents two technical notes on the marine outfall: (i) an explanation and justification of the
selection of the outfall as the altemative for wastewater disposal, and (ii) the results of a model for the
effluent discharged to the sea bed through the outfall.
1.   Marine outfalls as an appropriate wastewater disposal alternative
The technical innovative strategic choice for this project is the use of small-diameter submarine outfalls
as part of a system for safe and economic disposal of wastewater. Because marine wastewater disposal
through sea outfalls is not a topic of general familiarity, this introductory section presents a general
review of the processes and mechanisms at work in outfall systems, where dilution by mixing with large
sea water volumes and degradation of pathogenic bacteria in the hostile marine environment are often
sufficient to achieve adequate water quality standards [3].
The availability of a highly developed wastewater treatment technology has in most parts of the world
obscured the fact that open bodies of sea water have a natural capacity to handle enormous quantities of
organic load. Many of the opponents of sea disposal appear to assume that sewage remains unchanged in
coastal waters. However, treatment occurs in the natural environment and when wastewater is discharged
into the sea after undergoing preliminary treatment, a number of changes in its quality take place, which
are equivalent to exposing the wastewater to a very high level of treatment [4]. This section presents a
description of these changes.
Section 1.2 describes the wastewater treatment processes (dilution, dispersion, and bacterial decay) that
occur in the ocean after outfall discharge. Section 1.3 compares traditional wastewater treatment options
and outfalls taking into account local conditions in the pilot area of the project. Section 1.4 compares
wastewater treatment options prior to outfall discharge and presents recommendations on the preferred
level of treatment. Section 1.5 presents design criteria for a small-diameter outfall in the pilot area.
Finally, Section 1.6 gives some general conclusions on depths and performance of outfall in the pilot area.
General considerations
Extensive experience has shown that domestic sewage can be safely discharged to coastal waters through
long outfalls equipped with efficient diffusers, as presented in the report of the U.S. Water Science and
Technology Board to the National Research Council [5]. Mathematical modeling and monitoring of
operating outfalls generally shows that the effects of coastal outfalls are limited to a small area around the
discharges. This is true even for discharges of essentially untreated sewage, for example, the Ipanema
outfall in Rio de Janeiro [6]. A typical ocean outfall discharge system is sketched in Figure 1. Sewage is
collected and transported to a treatment plant near the shore, from where wastewater is discharged
through a multiport diffuser.
3 Roberts, P.J.W. (1998). "Report on Proposed Sea Outfalls for the Dominican Republic". Report submitted to
World Bank Project Team. Atlanta, Georgia.
4 Uslu, 0. (1985). "Marine Outfalls as a Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Altemative in Developing Countries",
In: ('uri, K, (ed.) Appropriate Waste Management for Developing (.`ountries. New York, Plenum Press.
5National Research Council (1993). "Managing Wastewater in Coastal Urban Areas". Washington, D.C., National
Academy Press.
" Britto, E. R., Jordao, E. P., Semeraro, J., and Castro, W. M. (1986). "Ten Years of Operation of Rio de Janeiro's
Ipanema Submarine Outfall." R. G. Ludwig and S. A. S. Almeida, Eds., pp. 177-187, Rio de Janeiro, 25-27
August, 1986.



Page 72
The wastewater treatment performance of an outfall disposal system, in terms of its capacity to reduce
organic and bacteriological contamination, depends on three processes: (i) initial mixing and dilution; (ii)
waste dispersion; and (iii) waste decay [7, 81
Initial mixing and dilution
When wastewater is discharged from a multiple port diff-user into a receiving water of greater density, the
waste is diluted by turbulent jet mixing. The multiple port diffuser is a series of orifices in the final
section of the outfall that spread the wastewater discharge over a large distance, thereby avoiding a
single-point discharge and promoting mixing and dilution. Because sewage is very buoyant in seawater,
the jets ejected from the diffuser become plumes that rise towards the surface. The turbulence generated
by these plumes causes energetic mixing in a region called the "near-field" or "hydrodynamic mixing
zone." The velocity gradient between the edge of the plume and the surrounding water causes a
turbulence and resultant mixing action as the plume rises toward the surface due to its buoyancy (see
Figure 1). Well-designed diffusers should result in an initial (near field) dilution of 100:1, which is well
beyond what can be achieved, in terms of nutrients and organic matter, with a conventional secondary
treatment. This is an important difference between discharges in water bodies such as inland rivers and
the open ocean; in an inland river one of the key indicators of pollution is the depletion of the oxygen
content, but in the ocean there are few places, except in the immediate vicinity of the difffuser discharge,
where oxygen depletion can be measured. The 100:1 design criterion suffices to meet toxic requirements
beyond the near field and prevent excessive solids deposition in the vicinity of the discharge.
Figure 1
Schematic Depiction of Ocean Outfall Wastewater Disposal System
Horizontal dispersion
Depending on the oceanic density stratification the plumes may reach a "trapping level" where they stop
rising and begin to spread laterally. Near field mixing can continue in this spreading layer, but it
Burclhett, M.E., G. Tchobanaglous, and A.J. Burdoing. (1967). "A Practical Approach to Submnarine Outfall
Calculations". Public Works, May, 1967.
8 Leppe, A. anid D. Gonzalez. (1997). "El Emnisario Submarino como Sistemna de Tratarfiento de Aguas Servidas",
In: Emisario Submarino. Empresa de Servicios Sanitarios del Bio-Bio, Chile.



Page 73
eventually ceases, forming a layer called the established wastefield. If the stratification is weak, the
established wastefield surfaces. Whether the wastefield surfaces or not, it then drifts with the ocean
current and is diffused by oceanic turbulence in a region sometimes called the "far-field." The rate of
mixing in the far field is much slower than in the near field but it further decreases the waste
concentration already reduced significantly by the initial mixing and dilution. The horizontal dispersion
depends on factors such as the current velocity and the distance from the diffusers.
Waste decay
An important factor that serves to reduce the bacteriological concentration of the discharged wastewater is
bacterial decay. This decay results from a variety of factors, the principal ones being mortality,
flocculation, sedimentation. Other factors include osmotic shock (due to the turbulent mixing in the
initial dilution), sunlight effects, and presence of bacteria killing organisms. Bacterial decay from all
causes, with the exception of dispersion, is usually modeled as an exponential decay function with time:
Sb = IToT9l
Where Sb is coliform dilution, T is travel time, and Tgo is the time needed for a 90 percent reduction in
bacterial population. Table 1 presents typical values of Tgo measured in outfalls around the world. For
example, in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, every 0.7 hours, the bacterial population is reduced by 90%.
Table 1
Measured Bacterial Decay onstant ["I
Location      TXo
Honolulu, Hawaii              0.75 or
less
Mayaguez Bay, Puerto              0.7
Rico
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil            1.0
Nice, France                      1.1
Accra, Ghana                      1.3
Montevideo, Uruguay               1.5
Santos, Brazil                0.8-1.7
The three processes described above are complex hydrodynamic processes. In the near field, the flow is
turbulent and strongly modified by buoyancy effects. In the far field, the plume wanders and ages and is
subject to a cascade of processes that result in efficient mixing and dispersion. If the plume is submerged,
it is very unlikely to impact the shoreline. If it surfaces, the combination of near and far field dilution and
bacterial mortality quickly reduces bacterial concentrations to low levels [1']. The level of bacteria that
may reach the shore depends on the local currents and the travel time to shore. However, onshore
currents are rare, and mathematical modeling is employed to ensure that shoreline bacterial standards are
met, which is another design criterion for the location, depth and other characteristics of the outfall.
9 Salas, H.J. (1994) 'Emisarios Submarinos". Centro Parainericano de Ingenieria Ambiental y Ciencias del
Ambiente, Regional Office of the World Health Organization.
10 Roberts, P.J.W. (1998) "Dispersion from Ocean Outfalls". Water Quality International, May/June 1998, pp. 43-
48.



Page 74
Because of the complexity of the hydrodynamic processes, overly conservative assumptions are
sometimes made to model these processes. For example, beach impacts are presumed to result from
direct onshore transport of the plume combined with the lowest initial dilution and bacterial decay rates.
Such "worst case" approaches may never occur in combination, however, or occur so infrequently as to
be unimportant. They may lead to overly pessimistic predictions of water quality impacts and possibly an
unnecessarily advanced and costly level of sewage treatment. More realistic predictions are now
becoming possible due to recent improvements in oceanographic instrumentation. The new modeling
techniques would be used in the design of the outfalls in Dominican Republic to present a realistic picture
of the statistical nature of wastewater plume evolution with time.
Conventional wastewater treatment and outfalls
When compared to conventional treatment plants in the pilot area selected for this LIL project in the
Dominican Republic, the outfall present clear advantages [9]: (i) smaller costs for similar levels of
environmental protection because sea water depths greater than 200 ft can be found close to the shore and
the oceanographic conditions are optimal for outfalls; (ii) the initial 1:100 dilution usually obtained with
the diffusers of submarine outfalls is much greater than typical reductions of nutrients and organic matter
obtained with well-maintained and operated conventional secondary treatment; (iii) the mortality rates of
bacteria after the initial dilution in outfalls can reduce the pathogens to levels similar, or even lower, than
those obtained with chlorinating effluents from secondary treatment plants; (iv) outfalls are more flexible
than treatment plants to manage the highly seasonal flows typical of tourism centers; (v) the operation and
maintenance of outfalls is much simpler and less costly than those of conventional secondary treatment
plants, which are usually inadequately operated in Dominican Republic and, consequently, result in
polluting the environment despite expensive investments; and (vi) if the environmental monitoring
program of the project indicates that the beaches are being polluted by the outfall discharges, despite
model predictions used in the outfall design, additional sewage treatment installations can be incorporated
in the system prior to effluent discharge through the outfall. This approach constitutes a cost-effective
strategy that minimizes investments to achieve the environmental and health objectives of the project.
Wastewater treatment prior to outfall discharge
Depending on oceanographic, bathymetric, coastal, and environmental conditions, the outfall system
requires different levels of treatment prior to discharge. There is a variety of physical, chemical, and
biological processes available for wastewater treatment. The typical ones are sumnmarized in Table 2 in
increasing order of sophistication. Also shown are relative costs and removal efficiencies for various
wastewater constituents.
The first level of treatment is milliscreening. This consists of passing the coarse-screened wastewater
through a fine screen with mesh sizes usually 0.5 to 5 mm for marine discharges. The typical suspended
solids removal is 15 to 30 percent when used alone. Milliscreening is relatively inexpensive and has low
maintenance requirements. An additional advantage for marine discharge is that it can also remove
substantial amounts (around 50 percent) of the grease, floating grease, and virtually all of the floating
particles [l, 2]. Another advantage of milliscreening is that it can be done with small area requirements
in a completely enclosed area with odor control. It can therefore be put in a residential area[l'31.
Balnatyne. A. N., and Speir, J. (1986). 'Milliscreening: A Pretreatment Option for Marine Disposal." R. G.
Ladwig aind S. A. S. Almeida, Eds., pp. 71-81, Rio de Janeiro, 25-27 August, 1986.
12 Agudo, E. G., Amaral, A., and Berzin, G. (1986). "Evaluation of the Efficiency of Santos/Sao
Vicente Preconditioning Station for Oceanic Submarine Outfall." Marine Disposal Seminar, R.
G. Ludwig and S. A. S. Almeida, Eds., pp. 83-92, Rio de Janeiro, 25-27 August, 1986.
3 Agudo, E.G., and R.G. Ludwig. (1992). "Militamices como Sistema de Pre-tratariento". CEPIS (Regional
Office of the World Health Organization) and CETESB.



Page 75
Primary treatment requires much more land and is of the order of three times as expensive as
milliscreening. Conventional primary treatment consists essentially of gravity separation of settable and
floatable solids. It removes about 55 percent of total suspended solids (TSS) and 20 percent of
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and also removes some pollutants associated with the solids
including organic matter, nutrients, heavy metals and toxic materials.
Chemically enhanced primary treatment (CEPT), or advanced primary treatment (APT), is a relatively
recent development. In this process, FeCI3 and a polymer are added to the effluent to promote particulate
flocculation and sedimentation. The removal of TSS is typically 80 to 85 percent. A substantial amount
of BOD, typically 50 to 55 percent, is also removed. The addition of flocculation basins can increase
these removals to over 90 percent TSS, 75 percent BOD, and 95 percent phosphorus. For a discussion of
these treatments, see [5,14, 15].
Table 2
Typical Treatment Processes and Percent Removal Capabilities 151
Parameter                                   Treatment Process
Percent Removal Capabilities2
Milli-    Conve   Chemically       Biological   Biological  Nutrient
screenin  nt-      Enhanced        Secondary   Secondary  Removal
g         ional    Primary         Preceded    Preceded   Preceded by
Primar  (CEPT)           by          by CEPT   Biological
y                        Convent-                Secondary and
ional                   Convent- ional
Primary                 Primary
Low    High
Dose   Dose
Suspended                              71
solids'           22  7  55 14    11   92 6          93 4       93 5              94
BOD                       20 11       55      78       92 6       95 4              94
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _    10   11 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Nutrients
As mg/l TN              15 13      37      NA       32 32         NA            84 4
As mg/ TP               38 +19      63   93 3       38 28        874           97 2
_ _ _ _ _ _  19 _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _  _  _ _
Cost ($/MG)          150     500      600    700 |       1100        1200             1400
lasmg/l TSS
2Ranges represent one standard deviation on either side of the mean as detennined from two national surveys in the IJ. S.
14 Shao, Y., A. Liu, et al. (1996). "Advanced primary treatment: An alternative to biological
secondary treatment. The City of Los Angeles Hyperion treatment plant experience." Water
Science and Technology, 34(3-4 pt 2).
l- Harlemnan, D.R.F., and S. Murcott (1998). "The role of Physical-Chemical Wastewater Treatmnent in the Mega-
Cities of the Developing World" Conference of tLe lintemationial Association of Water Quality, Milano, Italy.



Page 76
The next level of treatment is known as secondary treatment, which utilizes both biological and physical
processes. The most common form of secondary treatment is activated sludge preceded by either
conventional primary or CEPT. In this biological process, oxygen is added to the effluent.
Microorganisms feed on the organic matter, using the oxygen to create more microorganisms, carbon
dioxide, and water. These solids, including living and dead microorganisms, are then settled out. The
resulting solid material is called sludge. The main purpose of secondary treatment is to remove BOD and
TSS, but other constituents are also removed. Removal efficiencies are typically greater than 90 percent
for TSS and BOD, but the removal of pathogenic organisms is limited to low levels of not higher than one
order of magnitude, which is not a meaningful removal when considering that the concentration of fecal
indicator organisms in the raw wastewater is 107 to 101. MPN/IOOml.
The final level of treatment is usually called tertiary treatment. This includes a wide array of physical,
biological, and chemical processes whose major purpose is the removal of nutrients including nitrogen
and phosphorus. There are no known cases of tertiary treatment for ocean disposal.
The costs of treatment shown in Table 2 increase rapidly with increasing levels of TSS and BOD removal.
It should also be kept in mind that increasing levels of treatment also generates increasing amounts of
solids or sludge that are removed in the treatment processes, which must also be treated and disposed of
Incorrect disposal of these solids and sludge may produce significant environmental impacts inland.
There are two important factors to be taken into consideration when deciding on the most appropriate
level of treatment prior to the outfall discharge. First, the local conditions in the pilot area of the project.
Second, the standards to be used as design criteria. The following considerations apply to pollutants of
concern in the pilot area of the project:
1. It is important to note that nutrients are often not of concern for discharges to coastal waters with
good flushing like those in the pilot area. They are of more concern in enclosed water bodies such as
lakes, bays, or estuaries, where PCUtrophication may occur due to limited exchange.
2. Pathogens are microorganisms that can cause disease in humans. They include bacteria, and are
assumed to be controlled if the level of bacteria is below some specified standard. If an outfall is
located and designed in an area where transport to bathing contact areas, such as beaches, is very
infrequent, then the goal of environmental and health protection is achieved. Under these conditions,
chlorinating the effluent is then generally not required. The World Health Organization standards
would be used as design criteria for the outfall.
3. Toxic organic chemicals and trace metals can cause adverse effects in aquatic organisms and humans.
For regular domestic sewage, the control of the effect of toxic organisms and trace elements can
usually be accomplished by initial dilution alone. If there are industrial discharges, source control
may be needed. However, in the tourism center included in the project, industrial discharges are
practically non-existent.
4. Plastics and other floatables should be removed by screening. Other floatables, especially grease and
oil, may be of more concern since they may contain pathogens and may be blown onshore by winds
(See Figure 1). Milliscreening can remove substantial amounts of this type of floatable material.
5. BOD is generally not of concern for ocean discharges. This is because the high initial dilution and
large surface area available for re-aeration result in little dissolved oxygen depletion. Solids are also
not of major concern due to the ability to control them with preliminary treatment and the high initial
mixing and dilution.
Given the above considerations, the advanced levels of treatment are not necessary for the proposed
outfall. Coarse screening would be used to remove large material, which could threaten the integrity of
the outfall. Beyond this, milliscreening is desirable as it can remove substantial amounts of solids and
floatables at reasonable cost. Conventional primary and beyond removes substantially more suspended



Page 77
solids, but is considerably more expensive. It also generates more sludge that must be disposed of
Treatment beyond milliscreening is not recommended at this time.
It should be noted that in many cases, other sources, especially stormwater overflows and wastewater
flows from residential areas that are not connected to the sewage collection network and discharge to
nearby creeks and rivers, are bigger contributors to beach pollution than outfalls. It is essential that
additional investments are directed to solving these pollution problems, rather than overspending
resources on unnecessary levels of treatment which would make little or no improvement in local water
quality.
The outfall and treatment should be thought of as a system for safe marine wastewater discharge. The
level of treatment should be appropriate for the outfall and the receiving waters dispersion capability, and
suitable levels of treatment and outfall design can control the pollutants associated with domestic
wastewater.
The strategy adopted under the project is to provide the minimal level of treatment to the wastewater and
at the same time to provide a long enough outfall which would ensure that contamination will not reach
bathing beaches and would have a minimal negative environmental impact. The validity of the strategy
would be tested by employing a monitoring program prior and after the construction of the outfall. The
results of the monitoring program should indicate whether the treatment processes in the ocean are
working according to the outfall design criteria. If the outfall performance would not conform to the
planned environmental standards, additional treatment capacity would be added prior to the wastewater
discharge via the outfall. This strategy will prevent carrying out unnecessary investment in costly
treatment installations.
The monitoring program may also provide information to prioritize future investments. For example, if
the pre-treatment for wastewater to be discharged through the outfall is sufficient, as planned, and the
beach continues to be polluted by discharges from surface water discharges, it may be more cost-effective
and protective of the environment to extend the wastewater collection network, rather than to provide
additional wastewater treatment prior to outfall discharge.
The outfall in the pilot area will, therefore, be designed based on the assumption that only preliminary
treatment is provided. This assumption would imply a longer and deeper outfall to ensure adequate
dilution and bacteria die-off. However, bathymetric conditions in the pilot area make it less expensive to
extend the outfall than to build a high-level treatment plant. A long-term ocean monitoring program
would be implemented before outfall construction is completed in order to have baseline data and
continued after the construction of the outfall to provide information on the outfall performance. In the
unlikely case that the outfall performance does not meet the design expectations, additional treatment
stages would be added to the to the preliminary treatnent installations, as required.
Design criteria for outfalls
Environmental
Design criteria for ocean outfalls have been discussed in many publications, including [16, 17]. The main
objective of ocean sewer outfalls is to prevent detrimental effects to the receiving water. This requires that
concentrations of bacteria, toxins, and other contaminants are reduced to safe levels; that ecosystem
products of the effluent (organic carbon, nutrients, etc.) and dissolved oxygen concentrations are kept within
16 Fischer, H. B., List, E. J., Koh, R. C. Y., Imberger, J., and Brooks, N. H. (1979). "Mixing in Inland and Coastal
Waters," Academic Press, New York.
17 Roberts, P. J. W., Snyder, W. H., and Baumgartner, D. J. (1989). "Ocean Outfalls." Journal of Hydraulic
Engineering, ASCE., 115(1), 1-70.



Page 78
allowable limits, and that local particulate deposition is not excessive. These can be accomplished if the
diffuser causes rapid dilution and dispersion of the effluent and is positioned so that wastefield transport to
critical areas (especially the shoreline and environmentally sensitive areas) is minimized. Any effects of the
discharge are then limited to a small area.
It is recommended that the outfall in the pilot area be designed to meet two environmental criteria, for
initial dilution, and bacteria, as follows:
1. The diffuser should result in an initial (near field) dilution of 100: 1. This will suffice to meet toxins
requirements beyond the near field and prevent excessive solids deposition in the vicinity of the
discharge.
2. The discharge should meet bacterial standards at the shoreline. It is recommended that the recent
World Health Organization bathing water standards under final review [18] apply at the shoreline, or
the California Ocean Plan 1191.
These criteria can probably be satisfied with a suitably designed outfall and diffuser discharging into
water at a depth greater than about 40 m, and a distance from shore greater than about 700 m.
Hydraulic
Equipping the outfall with a long diffuser, which discharges from many ports, can effect high initial
dilution. The details of the hydraulic design of such diffusers have been discussed thoroughly in [16], and
are only summarized here. Once the outfall is flowing, seawater intrusion into the ports should be
avoided. This can be achieved by maintaining a total port area less than the outfall pipe cross-sectional
area and the densimetric Froude numbers of each individual port Fj:
greater than unity, where uj is the jet exit velocity, g' the modified acceleration due to gravity, and d the
nozzle diameter. The best ratio of total port area to pipe area lies between about 1/3 and 2/3, depending
on bottom slope. The velocity in the pipe should be between about 0.5 and 1.0 ni/s at peak flow to scour
and prevent deposition of particles. The total headloss in the outfall should be kept small to minimize
headloss and therefore pumping costs. There should be a uniform division of flow between the ports at
all flows, this can be accomplished by gradually increasing the port diameter in the offshore direction.
The computation of flow distribution and headloss along the diffuser is a standard problem in manifold
hydraulics. The maximum pipe velocity should be below the maximum velocity at which abrasion dto
grit occurs.
,Structural
The outfall must be designed to prevent failure due to the actions of waves and hurricanes.
Materials
For small-diameter outfalls, like that proposed in the pilot area of the project, the most adequate material
for the outfall pipe is high-density polyethylene (HDPE), for the following reasons [20]: (i) low weight
l  Salas, H.J. (1998). "History and Application of Microbiological Water Quality Standards in the Marine
Environment - Draft". CEPIS, Regional Office of the World Health Organization.
' SWRCB. (1990). "Water Quality Control Plan, Ocean Waters of California." State Water Resources Control
Board, California.
20) Reiff, F. (1986). "Emisarios Submarinos de Pequeio Diametro de Polietileno de Alta Densidad (HDPE)".



Page 79
that requires no specialized equipment as it can be handled manually, (ii) easy assemblage near the shore
by fusing the HDPE tubes; (iii) correctly fused joints are stronger than the HDPE pipe segments, thereby
avoiding leaks due to sedimentation or movement; (iv) flexibility that allows placement along routes
designed to avoid removal of submerged rocks or corals; (v) easy installation (a 700-m outfall can be
installed in two or three days); (vi) small boats can be used for installation given its low weight; and (vii)
HDPE is essentially immune to corrosive effects of sea water.
2. Modeling of the Fate of the Effluent Discharged to a Sea Water Depth of 140 meters in Front of the
Existing Sosua Wastewater Treatment Plant
The fate of the effluent discharged to a sea water depth of 140 meters in front of the existing Sosua
wastewater treatment plant was modeled by a well known expert, as part of project preparation. The
modeling was based on oceanographic data measured in the sea, at the location of the proposed outfall,
and its results are summarized in the following memo.
CEPIS, Regional Office of the World Health Organization.



Page 80
Memorandum
To:    Dr. Menahem Libhaber
Mr. Oscar Chalas
From: Dr. P. J. W. Roberts
Re:   Sosua Marine Wastewater Disposal Options
Oceanographic data have now been collected along two possible Sosua outfall alignments. Bathymetric
data at the alignment originally proposed, in Sosua Bay, showed the bottom topography to be much
steeper than initially thought. The depth at 800 meters from shore is in excess of 190 meters and the
depth of the proposed diffuser, 40 meters, was reached only 235 meters from shore. Discharge this close
to shore would probably result in transport of the waste field to the local beaches. As a result, only
preliminary Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler (ADCP) data were obtained at this site, and attention was
moved to an alternate alignment, about 2 km to the West. This alignment runs from Point Sosua near the
LA Airport. Twenty-five days of current meter data were obtained from an ADCP moored at 49 meters
depth 978 meters offshore along this alignment. Modeling of the fate and transport of effluent were then
done using this oceanographic data. The results are given in Roberts (1999).
The cost of the onshore portion of the wastewater conveyance scheme to Point Sosua was subsequently
found quite high, however, and so the original alignment was reconsidered.
Density profiles were obtained along the original alignment at four stations (see Figure 3 of Roberts,
1999). The deepest station, labeled 2.00, is 785 meters offshore in 190 meters water depth. Six STD
(Salinity, Temperature, and Depth) profiles were obtained at this station over a period of about ten hours
on January 13, 1999. The density profiles computed from these measurements are shown in Figure 1.
It can be seen that a sharp density change occurs at depths that vary between about 80 to 120 meters. This
is caused by the deeper water being both colder and more saline than the surface waters. The density
difference across this sudden change is as much as I 6-unit (1 kg/m3). The location of the density jump
moves slowly up and down, possibly due to internal waves. Such a strong density change would trap
sewage discharged beneath it, and vertical mixing across the jump would be very small.
To test the behavior of sewage discharged below this density jump, preliminary simulations were made
with the mathematical model NRFIELD. The diffuser was assumed to be 70 meters long and th-average
flow rate equal to 0.43 m3/s. These are the same as assumed in Roberts (1999). Because we have no data
on currents at these depths, current speeds were taken to be zero. Actual currents would increase
dilutions over those simulated here. The results for a discharge at 140 meters depth are shown in Table 1.



Page 81
Table 1. Simulated Plume Behavior for Sewage Discharge at 140 meters Depth
Time of profile   Near field dilution   Plume submergence (m)
0642             102                   121
0828             195                   104
1027             288                   92
1223             195                  104
1427             375                   81
1628             347                   84
It can be seen that all profiles result in high dilution and deep plume submergence.  For these
assumptions, the minimum depth of discharge to achieve an initial dilution of 100:1 is about 138 meters.
Because of the strong stratification, the plume will not mix upwards to the surface nor will it impact the
local beaches. In the unlikely event that the stratification is too weak to maintain plume submergence, the
dilution at the surface will be very high, in excess of 1000:1.
Recommendations
Discharge of wastewater along the originally proposed alignment would appear to be an excellent
environmental option. Discharge into water about 140 meters deep would result in high dilution and deep
plume submergence. No impact on the local beaches or surface waters would be anticipated. A depth of
140 meters occurs about 570 meters offshore.
This site should therefore be considered further. Additional oceanographic data should be collected to
confirm these preliminary findings. This would include further STD profiling and ADCP measurements
at about 600 meters offshore along the original alignment.
References
Roberts, P. J. W. (1999). "Report on Mathematical Modeling of Proposed Sea Outfall for Sosua,
Dominican Republic," March 6, 1999.
Sosua Density Profiles 13 Jan 1999
Density
23        23.5        24         24.5       25         25.5        26
0  ~ ~ ~ ~ . ~~~~ ~~~  s..> ~~~~~~~~                 *~642
2 60                                                                         8 "  X1628
140~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12
t   80 XX1gfi|XX
I100                               i     g



Page 82
Annex 10 An Option for Controlling/Supervising the PSP Contract
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
This annex presents an option for controlling and supervising the private operation contract which has
been initially discussed with the Government, but has not been finalized yet. The Government is
currently studying the proposed mechanism and others, and will submit a proposal to the Bank for further
discussion. The control and supervision mechanism will be finalized before the PSP process is launched.
Introduction
The private sector participation strategy for the Puerto Plata region contemplates the signing of four
different contracts, which will be bid in two rounds, starting with the water and sewerage contract and
continuing with the solid waste and sanitary landfill contracts. They could be awarded to different
operators or to a single operator. The conditions and specific models of control for each contract will be
defined in the respective contracts.
The Dominican State and the selected operator(s) will sign two of the contracts (operation of the water
and sewerage systems and operation of the sanitary landfill). The other two contracts, (collection of solid
wastes in: (i) Puerto Plata, and (ii) Sosua/Cabarete) will be signed by the municipalities and the
operator(s), respectively.
The system of control of the contracts has a special importance during the first stage of operation. Given
that there may not be a unique operator for all services, it may be envisaged to have separate control
systems for each of them. If the water and sewerage operator was selected to also be the solid waste
operator in the two regions, a joint control of the two contracts signed by the State (water / sewerage and
sanitary landfill) could be envisaged. On the other hand, the contracts for solid waste collection signed by
the municipalities could have a separate municipal control for each one, or could be jointly controlled
with the other two contracts.
Since a country-wide regulation mechanism does not yet exist in the Dominican Republic, the control
mechanism of the operation contracts signed under the project should be defined in the contracts. During
appraisal it was agreed that the Government would submit a proposal for the contract control mechanism.
An option for undertaking such control is the establishment of a committee which would be in charge of
this task. This committee could be established within INAPA or delegated by INAPA, so that it could
include members representing the region, in addition to INAPA personnel. If such an approach is acceptable,
it could be developed in the framework of the project, the committee could be established and its members
could be trained to perform their duties. The duties for controlling water and sanitation services would be
financed under the wastewater disposal LIL, while the duties for controlling the solid waste management
services would be financed under the solid wastes management LIL. The committee might hire technical
consultants or consulting firms to assist its members in performing their duties and in evaluating the
performance of the operator. After the training period of the committee, which could be undertaken under the
project, the regular activities ofthe committee, i.e., the control and supervision ofthe operator's performance,
with assistance of consultants, if necessary, could be financed under the LIL project during the entire period
of its implementation.



Page 83
The philosophy of the contracts control
The operation of the services refers to a region denominated "Tourism Center of Puerto Plata, Sosua and
Cabarete". which is a special area not only because of its geographic location but also because of the
economic interests of a tourism zone, which are very different from those of a classic urban zone. The
tourism industry, which is of a vital importance for the Dominican Republic, is the main consumer of the
project, although the residential population, which provides a fundamental support to the tourism
industry, is also of great importance in the project. The control of operation cannot, therefore, be
alienated neither from the region not from the fundamental interest of tourism. A centralize control,
localized far away from the region and from operative aspects does not seem to be inadequate.
The mechanism of contract control committee, which could be established by the State to supervise the
operator's performance, has to include local representatives such as representatives of community
organizations and of the tourism industry. This participation needs to take into account also functionality
and economic aspects. The control committee has to be a technical body of application of the contracts
and not a body which deals with abstract considerations or politics.
To define the responsibilities and activities of the control committee, it is necessary to consider its
principal functions:
*  Apply penalties to the operator for non-compliance of functions, which are defined in the contract as
penalties triggering. One of the non-compliance of the operator is the lack of response to clients.
Consequently, to a certain degree, the control committee also acts as a second-tier clients' complaints
office.
*  Negotiate and approve annual plans of works and investments proposed by the operator. These plans
are derived from those proposed by the operator in his proposal, which need only to be updated
according to the circumstances at each point of time.
These two tasks are eminently technical, so the control committee needs to be alienated from political
discussions or partisan interests. It is recommended that the control committee members will be of
technical character even if they represent political institutions. The decision power of the control
committee in regard to penalties, has to be restricted to a limit defined in the contract. It could be
envisaged that penalties above this limit or penalties of severe consequences, such as suspension or
cancellation of the contract, would only be recommended by the control committee to the transferring
agency, which will have the decision power.
It is, however, impossible to require that the control committee members have a high expertise level,
since this would impose on them a high economic load, not justified for this type of expertise. The control
committee members should be regular technical employees of the institutions they represent, residents of
the region and work partial time in the control committee. The control committee may hire a consulting
firm or individual consultants, to assist in important or complicated technical work, such as the analysis
of annual plans and investments submitted by the operator. These consultants may also be hired to
evaluate the operator's performance (it is estimated that a total of 60 working days per year of an expert
will be sufficient for that purpose).
Proposal on Composition of the control committee
A proposal regarding the proposed composition of the control committee, referred to in the Loan
Agreement as the Special Supervisory Committee (SSC), will be sent to the Bank by the Government
prior to launching the PSP process.



Page 84
Mode offunctioning andfinancing
The mode of functioning of the SSC (frequency of meetings, venue and administration) will be
established by the members after their nomination. It is foreseen that the operation contract will include a
direct tax, as a fixed percentage of tariffs, to finance the activity of the SSC.
Training of the SSC members
It is important that the SSC members will be nominated immediately, so that they could follow the
process of hiring of the operator and assist in all the stages of the process, providing the Project Executing
Unit (PCU) some collaborators in the project region. They can constitute an important local information
service for the PCU and for potential proponents which will contact the SSC during their visits in the
region.
The contact of the SSC members with interested operators can be an important information and formation
source for the SSC members.
The financing of the SSC prior to signing of the operation contract can not be realized through the
contracts. This financing of its first year of operation, will therefore be included in the LIL project, so
that the LIL will contribute to the formation of the SSC members. This correlates well with the learning
aspect of the LIL.
Supervision of the environmental mitigation plan
The SSC could also be in charge of supervision of the environmental mitigation plan and the oversight of
the monitoring program of the coastal environment before and after the construction of the outfall. This
work would include ensuring, during the design period that all the required environmental aspects are
taken in account, as well as environmental supervision and inspection of the operator, after he takes over.



Page 85
Annex 11 Documents in the Project File
Dominican Republic, Wastewater disposal in tourism centers project
-Country Assistance Strategy for the Dominican republic, June 9, 1999, Report No. 19393 DO;
-Dominican Republic Environmental Issues Paper, July 13, 1993, Report No. 1813-DO, Final
Version;
-Aide Memoire of the high level delegation of the Dominican Republic which visited Washington
during June 4-5, 1998 and requested the project;
-BTO and Aide Memoire of the identification mission which visited the Dominican Republic
during July 9-21, 1998;
-Feasibility study of the on-shore Sosua wastewater LIL works (Informe de Factibilidad Tecnica
para el Proyecto LIL Alcantarillado Sanitario para la ciudad de Sosua, Documento
PASCT-033/LIL Sosua, by Herbert Farrerr et al, 15 Oct 98;
-Report on proposed sea outfalls for the Dominican Republic, by Philip Roberts; July 24, 1998
-Feasibility report of submarine outfalls for nine tourism centers in the Dominican Republic, by
Fred Reiff, August 21, 1998;
-Proyecto de Agua y Saneamiento en Centros Turisticos, Tratamiento y Disposici6n Final de
Aguas Residuales, by Haim Weinberg, Marcelo Juanico, Eran Friedler, Junio i 999;
-Report on Mathematical Modeling of Proposed Sea Outfall for Sosua, Dominican Republic, by
Philip Roberts, March 6, 1999;
-Estudio de Impacto Ambiental del Proyecto de Recolecci6n, Tratamiento y Disposici6n de aguas
residuales para la ciudad de Sosua, Jerald Miers et al, 6 de junio de 1999.
-Oceanographic Studies for the Design of Submarine Outfalls, Report No. 2, Sosua and Sosua
Alternate Alignments, Ocean Surveys Inc., OSI report No. 98ES 109.2, February 8, 1999.



Page 86
Annex 12 Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Dominican Republic, Operations Portfolio
As of 12-July-1999
Dlfference
between expected
and actual
rojit         Fiscal                                                          Oriainal Amount in US$ Millions                  disbursements a/
ID           Year               BorroNver                   Purpose            IBRD      IDA   Cancellations   Undisbursed    Grip    Fnrn Rev'd
Number of Closed Proiects: 23
Active Projects
DO-PE-63201        1999    GOVERNMENT OF THE              EMERGENCY                  111.11     0.00       0.00           88.00       26.89        0.00
DOMINIC                       OPERATIONS
DO-PE-35733        1998    GOVERNMENT                    ENVIRONMENT POLICY           3.00      0.00        0.00          2.90         .45         0.00
DO-PE-7015         1998                                   PROV.HEALTIHI SERV.PRJ   30.00        0.00        0.00          23.41       -4.97        0.00
DO-PE-35722        1997    GOV'T. OF DOM. REP.           NATIONAL HWY. PROJ.    75.00           0.00        0.00          65.13       29,13        7.13
DO-PE-35494        1996    GOV'T OF DOMINICAN R          BASIC EDUCATION              37.00     0.00        0.00          33.54       22.54        13.54
DO-PE-7020         1995    GOVERNMENTOFDR                IRRIGLAND&WATERSH   28.00              0.00       0.00           25.57       11.61 .      2.12
Total                                                                           284.11    0.00        0.00          238.55      85.65        22.79
Active Projects         Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (JBRD and IDA)                  :           45.56                   545.91                591.47
of which has been repaid:        0.00                    344.15                344.15
Total now held byRBRDand IDA                    :          284.11                   201.85                485.96
Amount sold                                                 0.00                     0.00                 000;
of wyhich repaid                                :           0.00                     0.00                  0 00\
Total Undisbursed                               :          238.55                     .08                 238.63
a.  Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first Nweek of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Page 87
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-May-99
In Millions US Dollars
-----------Held----------         Disbursed-----------
------IFC-                       IFC-
FY Approval            Company              Loan Equity Quasi Partic  Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1991/94               DTC                    4.23   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.23   0.00   0.00   0.00
1993                  Hotel Flamenco        3.57   0.00   0.00   0.00   3.57   0.00   0.00   0.00
1995/96               Smith-Enron          21.96   0.00   5.65  34.49  21.96   0.00   5.65  34.49
1998                  Flamenco Bavaro       14.00   0.00   0.00  21.70  11.08   0.00   0.00  11.63
Total Portfolio:                            43.76   0.00   5.65  56.19  40.84   0.00   5.65  46.12
Approvals Pending
Commitnent
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
Total Pending Comrnitment:                   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00



Page 88
Annex 13 Dominican Republic at a Glance
Dominican Republic at a glance                                                                    10/1/98
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              Dominican   America   middle-
Republic   & Carib.  income       Developm ent diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                        8 1       494     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   1,670     3,880      1.230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billons)                       13 5     1,917     2,818                        T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%                                          1 8        1 7       1 2     GNGrs
Labor force (%)                                        2`87       23        1.      Gp                              Gross
per                            priary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationaJ poverty line)   21
Urban population (% oftotal population)                 63        74        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       71         70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               38         32        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               6                                    Access to safe water
Access tosafe water (% ofpopulation)                    71        73        84    1
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    18        13        19    |
Grossprimarvenrollment (%of'school-agepopulation)      103       111       111           - " Dominican Republic
Male                                                103                  116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               104                 113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            4 0      6 1       13 2      14 7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                22.5     211       27.5      28.8                     Trad
Exports of qoods and services/GDP            20.9     23 0      29.1      30.4                         e
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                   15.2     17 3       19 0     20.8                        T
Gross national savinqs/GDP                   18 3     17 8      25.7      27.3
Current account balance/GDP                  -3.3     -3 4       -1.8      -1.5     Domestic                     I
Interest payments/GDP                         0.9      3.0       1.2        1.2     Savings                     Investment
Total debtVGDP                               20.6     60 2      32 7      28.4
Total debt service/exports                   11 2     24 7       11.2
Present value of debtVGDP                       .        .       29.3
Present value of debt/exports                   .               96.8
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.3      3 4      7.3       8.2        5.2        --Dominican Republic
GNP per capita                       0.3      1 7      5 7       3.6        3 6              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services        9 2      7 6     13.3       8 6       5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investm ent (% I
(% of GDP)
A,qriculture                                 19.0     17 4       12 9      13.0    00
Industry                                     31.3     23 7      31.6      32.4      20
Manufacturing                              20 6     12.7       17.0      17 0     10;    -      T               -
Services                                     49 6     59 0      55.4      54 S2   93   949
Private consumption                          80.9     72 4      74 8      67 3     -20 I
General government consumption                3.8     10.2        62       119                  _  0GD01    ""O'GDP
Imports of noods and services                28.2     26.7      37 6      38 1
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                   2.6      1.9       95S       3 4     30
Industry                                      2 2      3.6       7.0      10 6     2D
Manufacturing                               2.3      3.0        4 1       79       .1<
Services                                      4.1      3.7       7.0       7.9    no X  '.
Private consumotion                           2 6      4.0        6 8      5.9      o                 '.
General.government consumption               14.3      00         32       19 1       I    92   93   94           96   97
Gross domestic investment                     0.9      2.4        8 5       4.3   -10
Im ports of qoods and services                7.5      4.8        9 8       7.8               -Exports    --*--Imports
Gross national product                        2.6      3 7        7.6       5.5
Note 1997 data are preliminary estimates
'The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) comoared with its income-aroup average If data are missing the diamond will
be incomplete.



MAP SECTION



ISRD 29819
72 7W                                                                                                   
7 ~~~~~~WMTE tRISTI;~~~~ASEWAERDIPOA
TOURISM CENTERS UL PROJECT~~~~~~~~EI
19~~~~~~~UR                                                                                                                                             * RYCAE
B~~~~~~RSI~NNLPSKYTMTUEMRA
Ei)NAL A       NABO  CAPITAL~~~~A
RAM)   ES VIE$~~~~  j SCiENIlFIC RESERVES ~~~~~~   EEC)  CAPITALS     $1
~~~  APOR S ~ ~   EFEBE 19



