Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4544-DO
Loan Agreement
(Wastewater Disposal in Tourism Centers Project)
between
 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 21, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4544-DO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 21, 2000, between the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)  
In a letter from the Borrower to the Bank, dated September 15, 1999, the 
Borrower has confirmed its commitment to the participation of the private sector in  
the water and sewerage sector in tourism areas in the Dominican Republic; 
(C)
By means of law No. 5994 of July 30, 1962, the Borrower established the 
National Drinking Water and Sewerage Institute (Instituto Nacional de Agua Potable y 
Alcantarillado – INAPA), and by means of Regulation No. 8955 bis of December 12, 1962, 
as amended by means of Decree No. 820 of April 23, 1964, regulated INAPA’s functions 
and responsibilities; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), constitute an integral part of this Agreement, with the 
modifications set forth below:
(a)
Paragraph (d) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions is added to read 
as follows: 
“(d) If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full amount then 
due and 
payable to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall have the 
right to allocate and apply 
the amount so received in any manner and for such 
purposes under the Loan Agreement as the 
Bank shall in its sole discretion 
determine.”
(b)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Loan.”
(c)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of said 
Section to read: “Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Advisory Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 3.07 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
(b)
“BCRD” means the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banco Central de la República 
Dominicana); 
(c)
“BRRD” means the Borrower’s Reserve Bank (Banco de Reserva de la 
República Dominicana);
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), and (4); set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(f)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan designed by the Borrower 
to mitigate environmental impacts of the Project; 
(g)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, which commences on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 of each calendar year;
(h)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the monitoring and evaluation indicators for the 
Project; 
(i)
“Private Operator” means the private operator selected through the PSP 
Model (as defined herewith) under Part B of the Project; 
Page  3
(j)
“PSP Model” means private sector participation in the provision of water 
and sewerage services in the Project Area; 
(k)
“PSP Contract” means the contract between the Borrower and the Private 
Operator to provide water and sewerage services in the Project Area;  
(l)
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit within the Technical 
Secretariat (as defined hereafter); 
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(o)
“Special Supervisory Committee” means the committee referred to in 
Section 3.08 to this Agreement;  
(p)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and INAPA pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(q)
“Technical Secretariat” means the Borrower’s Technical Secretariat within 
the Office of the Presidency (Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia); and  
(r)
“UASB” means the upflow anaerobic sludge blanket wastewater treatment 
plant. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to five 
million Dollars ($5,000,000). 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Disbursed amount” means, in respect of each interest period, the 
aggregate 
principal amount of the loan withdrawn from the loan account 
in such interest 
period. 
(ii)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
Page  4
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(iii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iv)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in single 
currency for value the first day 
of such Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum.
(v)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) 
months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective 
on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to 
the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October  15 in each year. Section 2.08. The Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the Technical 
Secretariat with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
financial, managerial, environmental, technical and public utility practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with the objectives of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the 
Operational Manual.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
Page  5
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about 60 days after the conclusion of each calendar semester 
throughout the course of Project implementation, starting as of the first calendar 
semester of 2000, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, no later than 30 days after reception of the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, said report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of carrying out Parts A.2 and B.3 of the Project, 
the Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with INAPA, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia : (i) that INAPA, through 
the Special Supervisory Committee, shall control and supervise the provision of water 
and sewerage services in the Project Area by the selected Private Operator; (ii) that 
INAPA shall operate and maintain the required equipment and facilities under this 
Project, until the Private Operator shall have been selected and become operational; 
(iii) that INAPA shall execute the works necessary to finalize the UASB; and (iv) that 
the Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required or appropriate to enable 
INAPA to carry out its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the objectives 
of such Parts of  the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary 
Agreement and the PSP Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
the Subsidiary Agreement or the PSP Contract, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.07.  For the purposes of the implementation of Part B of the Project, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than August 31, 2000,  initiate the biding process for the PSP 
Contract, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and in consultation 
with an ad hoc advisory committee, with a membership structure and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
 exchange views with the Bank on any proposed modification to the 
functions or responsibilities of the Advisory Committee or the entity referred to in 
sub-paragraph (b) above; and 
(c)
prior to implementing any such proposed modification,  take into account 
the views of the Bank thereon.
Page  6
Section 3.08. Not later than two month before the PSP Contract enters into 
force, the Borrower shall cause INAPA, for the purposes of implementing Section 3.05 
above, to establish and thereafter maintain, within INAPA, a committee, with functions 
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project 
coordination unit with sufficient staff (including an executive director), in adequate 
numbers, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, such unit to 
assist the Technical Secretariat in the execution of the Project, and in particular, 
to ensure appropriate coordination, supervision of procurement and financial 
management of the Project.   
(b)
The Borrower shall strengthen the PCU with the assistance of a consulting 
firm of qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, operating under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of  implementing Parts B.1 and 
B.2 of the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to provide key instruments 
for the execution of the Project, including procurement and financial management 
procedures, and an implementation action plan. 
(b)
As a part of the Operational Manual, the Borrower shall prepare an 
environmental management plan to prevent or mitigate environmental impact of the civil 
works to be carried out under the Project and to establish adequate technical and 
managerial procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, including oceanographic, biological, 
and ecological monitoring indicators, contingency plans, environmental guidelines for 
construction sites, and restoration measures. 
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall open and maintain an account in the Borrower’s 
currency in the BRRD, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and deposit 
the counterpart funds necessary for the execution of the Project.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such Year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  7
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than April 30, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Borrower or INAPA will be able to perform their obligations under this  
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower’s Law No. 5994 and Regulation No.8955, as amended,  shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of the Borrower or INAPA to perform any of their respective 
obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement, or the PSP Contract.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  8
following additional events are specified, namely that the events specified in Section 
5.01 (b)  of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement between the Borrower and INAPA has been entered 
into and is legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with its terms and 
Section 3.05 to this Agreement;
(b)
a consulting firm, acceptable to the Bank, shall have been hired to 
strengthen the PCU; and 
(c)
the Borrower shall have issued the manual referred to in Section 3.10 of 
this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement is 
legally binding upon the parties thereto. 
Section 6.03. The date July 19, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Technical Secretary of the Presidency of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia 
Palacio Nacional Avenida 
México 
Santo Domingo 
República Dominicana
Facsimile:
809 – 686 70 40
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  9
written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Juan Temístocles Montás
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   1,800,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
30% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods
     500,000
30%
(3)
Consultants'
   2,440,000
100% 
services
(4)
Training and Workshops
     210,000
100%
(5)
Fee
      50,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
   5,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Training and Workshops” means expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training and workshop activities under 
the Project, including travel costs and per diem of the trainees, rental of facilities 
and equipment, and training materials.
Page  10
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Section on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
November 15, 1999; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (1) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Section, unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to 
the Bank, that the Borrower shall have acquired all required land titles of the Sosua 
area or shall have entered into possession of said area in accordance with the 
Borrower’s legal framework, and authorizations to construct in said area shall have 
been issued by the appropriate authorities. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$250,000 equivalent each; (c) consulting firm services under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d) individual consultants services under contracts 
costing less than $30,000 equivalent each; and (e) all Training and Workshops, under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in 
the BCRD, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports, or statements of expenditure. 
Page  11
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to five hundred Dollars ($500,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Page  12
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures, as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the respective 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of one million Dollars ($1,000,000).
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to test and apply an innovative 
technology for environmentally sound disposal of treated wastewater of small and 
medium-size coastal towns; and (b) prepare and implement an innovative model for 
incorporating the private sector in the provision of water supply and sewerage 
services. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Construction of Wastewater Conveyance System, Treatment Installations and 
Submarine 
Outfalls for the Town of Sosua
1.
Carrying out the civil works for connecting the existing sewage network to the 
pumping stations and treatment plant, and construction of the required pumping 
stations. 
2.
Installation and operation of preliminary treatment installations of UASB.  
3.
Construction of a submarine outfall for pre-treated wastewater discharge.  
Part B:
PSP Model  
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for the preparation of bidding documents and 
the drafting of the PSP Contract. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance for the evaluation of the proposals received 
and the selection process for the implementation of the PSP Model. 
3.
Provision of technical assistance for the establishment, training and first year 
of  operation of the Special Supervisory Committee in charge of the control and 
supervision of the PSP Contract.  
Page  13
Part C:
Monitoring
Provision of technical assistance for monitoring key indicator variables of the 
coastal environment and measuring of the environmental benefits related to the use of 
the submarine outfalls in the Project Area.
Part D:
Dissemination
Provision of technical assistance for the preparation and implementation of 
workshops designed to train interested stakeholders, including representatives from 
the Borrower’s ministries and agencies, municipalities, professional associations, 
local entities, and dissemination of information regarding the technical aspects of 
the Project to such stakeholders, and the public at large.
Part E:
Project Management. 
Provision of technical assistance for the regular operation of the PCU. * * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
  (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
      Dollars) *
October 15, 2004
125,000 
April 15, 2005
130,000 
October 15, 2005
135,000 
April 15, 2006
135,000 
October 15, 2006
140,000 
April 15, 2007
145,000 
October 15, 2007
150,000 
April 15, 2008
155,000 
October 15, 2008
160,000 
April 15, 2009
165,000 
October 15, 2009
170,000 
April 15, 2010
180,000 
October 15, 2010
185,000 
April 15, 2011
190,000 
October 15, 2011
195,000 
April 15, 2012
205,000 
October 15, 2012
210,000 
April 15, 2013
215,000 
October 15, 2013
225,000 
April 15, 2014
230,000 
October 15, 2014
240,000 
April 15, 2015
245,000 
October 15, 2015
255,000 
April 15, 2016
260,000 
October 15, 2016
270,000 
April 15, 2017
285,000
     TOTAL:
     5,000,000
_________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  14
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for the construction of the submarine outfall shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for: (a) goods such as pumping equipment, 
pretreatment of wastewater equipment; and (b) works such as the construction of 
pumping stations, preliminary treatment and UASB, shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $50,000 and $500,000 equivalent or more each, respectively.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding  
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract but more than 
$50,000 equivalent, and works, other than the submarine outfall, estimated to cost 
less than $3,000,000 but more than $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
International or National Shopping  
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less, and up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to $250,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
Page  15
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract under Part B.1 of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract under Part C.1 of this Section, and the 
first  contract for works  Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Section, the following procedures 
shall apply:  
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services for oceanographic 
and geophysical studies, supervision of the construction of sewerage and wastewater 
facilities, monitoring of coastal water study, assistance in the PSP model process, 
assistance to PCU to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for annual procurement audits, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent each, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection 
Services for the preparation of the submarine outfall design manual and 
Page  16
assistance in the implementation  of Part A of the Project, may with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks  that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
services estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
