Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5804-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
November 15, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document hls a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Ringgit (M$)
Average 1984       October 1985
US$1.00         =   M$2.42           US$1 = M$2.50
M$1.00          =   US$0.41          M$1  = US$0.40
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.62 mile (m)
1 hectare (ha)             =   2.47 acre (ac)
1 square kilometer (sq km) =   0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 liter (l)                =   0.26 U.S. gallons (gal) = 0.22 Imp gallons
1 kilogram (kg)            =   2.2 pound (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)         =   1,000 kg = 2,200 lb
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADT          -   Average Daily Traffic
BOD          -   Biological Oxygen Demand
DR           -   Federal Directorate of Roads
DWS          -   Federal Directorate of Water Supply
FELDA        -   Federal Land Development Authority
FELMA        -   FELDA Marketing Corporation
FELMILL      -   FELDA Mills Corporation
ffb          -   Fresh Fruit Bunch, of oil palm
FPWD         -   Federal Public Works Department
FRU          -   FPWD Regional Units for FELDA Works
lcd          -   liters per capita per day
Mld          -   million liters per day
O&M          -   Operation and Maintenance
PTU          -   Pahang (Water Supply) Training Unit
PWD          -   Public Works Department
PWSD         -   Pahang Water Supply Division
SMR          -   Standard Malaysian Rubber
SPWD         -   State Public Works Department
TSS          -   Total Suspended Solids



FCR OFFICIL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......      .............................  iv
I.  BACKGROUND         .................................................  1
A.  The Agricultural Sector .............................            1
B.  Bank Sector Strategy ........   .....................            2
II.  LAND DEVELOPMENT AND SETTLEMENT ..... .......................        3
A.  Background ..             ............................................  3
B.  Federal Land Development Authority - FELDA ... ..........        3
Organization and Management .....     ....................    3
Development Strategy ...... . ...... ......... .............  3
Financing                      ...   4
Past Performance ......      ...............................  5
Settler Incomes                 ... ......  5
C.  Land Settlement Infrastructure .      .........................  6
Public Works Department ........      ......................  6
Road Design and Construction .....     ....................   7
Road Maintenance .............     ........................   7
Waterworks Design and Construction ...       ................  8
Waterworks Operation and Maintenance .................        8
D.  Experience with Past Lending for FELDA . . ................     9
E.  Future FELDA Plans ......................................       9
This Report is based on the findiags of an appraisal mission consisting at
Messrs. J. Roman (Engineer - tission Leader). H. Kim (Economist). J. Ku_el
(Water SuppLy Specialist), and H. Snel (Road Engineer - Consultant) and A.M.
Richards (Training Consultanr), w.hich visited Malaysia in April 1985.
Mr. K. Templeton (Tree Crop Specialist) reviewed agricultural production
aspects.
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Page No.
III.  THE PROJECT ......................... .......   . ............    10
A. Project Origin and Preparaion ...............          .0     10
B. Project Objectives and Brief Description ..............11. ll
C. Project Features                 .........  12
Roads .........     ......................................  12
Water Supply Works ......     .............................  12
Water Supply Training .....     ...........................  13
Status of Project Preparation ................... .....     13
D. Project Costs ...... ............................. . . .       14
E. Financing .      .. .......... ..................................  14
F. Procurement                    ..... .   15
G. Disbursements                   .... ....   16
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION        ... ..... .... .......... .          17
Institutional Responsibilities ............................ .     17
Construction Supervision  .........  .......... .. .........      17
Road Kaintenance .................... . ..... ... ....... .       18
Waterworks O&M and Staff Training ..........................      18
Monitoring and Reporting ....................... .                19
Accounts and Audit ......................................................  19
Environmental Impact ....................                         19
V.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING ......................      20
Oil Palm Production, Processing and Marketing ..............      20
Rubber Production, Processing and Marketing ................      21
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....... . ......... oo.        21
A. Project Benefits ....o.................................... ....    21
B. Cost Recovery ... o ....... .  ....... ......  ...........     22
C. Economic Evaluation ...... . ...   ........ ...... ......... .  23
D. Project Risks  ............  ............... ............. .  .. 25
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION..o...............      25
ANNEXES
1.  FELDA Group Organization Chart
2.  PWD Organization Chart
3.  PWD Rural Roads Geometric Design Standards
4.  Summary of FELDA's Bank-Financed Projects
5.  Proposed Access and Village Roads
6.  Water Supply Component
6.1 Details of Project Works by Settlement Complex
6.2 Technical Parameters
6.3 Population and Water Demand by Complex
6.4 O&M Equipment and Vehicles



- iii -
ANNEXES (CONTINUED)
7. Cost and Financing Tables
7.1 Project Cost Summary
7.2 Summary Accounts Cost Summary
7.3 Project Components by Year
7.4 Financing Plan by Project Components
7.5 Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
8. Schedule of Loan Disbursements
9. Implementation Schedules
9.1 Typical Development Schedule of a Settlement Village
9.2 Water Supply Works Implementation Schedule
9.3 Pahang Waterworks O&M Training Program Implementation
Schedule
10. Oil Palm and Rubber Production Yields
11. Economic Rate of Return Analysis
12. Documents Available in Project File
MAP (IBRD 18997) - Land Settlement Infrastructure Project



- iv -
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Malaysia
Beneficiaries:  Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) and Public Works
Department (PWD).
Loan Amount:    US$50.0 million
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years including 3 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description: The proposed project would continue to support the Govern-
ment's land development and settlement program. It would
assist FELDA and PWD in the provision of roads and water
supply works for ongoing land settlement schemes and streng-
then PWD's construction and waterworks operation and mainte-
nance practices. The project would complement agricultural
development of some 105,000 ha and thereby raise living
standards and incomes of some 26,000 settler families in
Peninsular Malaysia. It would include: (a) construction of
about 840 km of access and village roads and 18 bridges;
(b) construction of seven water treatment plants, about 90 km
of distribution mains, and reservoirs and reticulation s,stems
for 44 settlement villages; and (c) development and implemen-
tation of a training program and technical assistance for
improvement of waterworks operation and maintenance in the
State of Pahang. There are no major risks associated with the
project.



Estimated Cost:                                    Local          Foreign    Total
(USS million)
Road and bridge construction   24.5            25.6        50.1
Waterworks and equipment          8.3          10.0        18.3
Engineering and supervision      4.0            1.0         5.0
Training                          0.4            1.2        1.6
Base Cost                   37.2           37.8        75.0
Physical contingencies            4.9           5.1        10.0
Price contingencies               5.3           7.1        12.4
Total Project Cost /a       47.4           50.0        97.4
Financing Plan:
IBRD                            -              50.0        50.0
Government                       47.4          -           47.4
Total                       47.4           50.0        97.4
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY         1987  1988  1989  1990   1991   1992   1993
(US$ d llin)
Annual             1.1  6.5   13.0  13.1    9.8    5.4    1.1
Cumulative             1.1  7.6   20.6  33.7   43.5   48.9   50.0
Rate of Return: 14Z to 26Z, based on selected settlement complexes.
Map: IBRD 18997
/a   Including taxes and duties of US$9.5 million.



MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      The agricultural sector plays a dominant role in the Malaysian
economy, though its relative importance is declining as the country proceeds
toward industrialization. The sector currently accounts for about 23% of GDP,
40Z of merchandise exports and 35% of employment. In the 1960s and early
1970s agriculture grew at 7% p.a., but growth slowed to an average of 5.5%
p.a. during 1976-80 and to 3.7% p.a. during 1981-84. Agricultural production
has been primarily export-oriented. Malaysia is the world's largest producer
and exporter of rubber and palm oil, supplying about 40% of the world's
natural rubber output and more than half of palm oil production. Malaysia's
contribution to world exports is about 45% for natural rubber and 70Z for palm
oil. It is also a major exporter of wood and timber.
1.02      Malaysia's climate and soil conditions provide a strong comparative
advantage for tree crop development, particularly rubber and oil palm. About
one third of Peninsular Malaysia and less than 5% of East Malaysia (Sabah and
Sarawak) are under cultivation, while most of the remaining area is still
tropical forest. The total cultivated area is about 4.5 million ha, of which
about 2.0 million ha are under rubber, 1.3 million ha oil palm, 300,000 ha
coconut, 200,000 ha cocoa and 500,000 ha rice. About half of the rice area is
double cropped. Minor crops include sugarcane, pineapple, tobacco, coffee and
pepper. The entire rice area and about two thirds of the tree crop area are
in smallholdings averaging 1.2 ha; the remainder is mainly in commercial
estates.
1.03      With the, until recently, strong performance of the Malaysian
economy, poverty incidence has been reduced from about 49% in 1970 to 29% in
1980. However, it remains high in the rural areas which account for about two
thirds of the nation's poor. This is particularly the case among rice, rubber
and coconut smallholders and fishermen, primarily because of small farm sizes
and low productivity. With increasing industrialization and low incomes in
the sector, the rural youth are migrating to urban areas, reducing the agri-
cultural labor force and further contributing to the slowdown of farm output.
Government Policies and Strategy
1.04      Government efforts in agriculture have traditionally been oriented
to poverty alleviation in the rural areas, particularly among rice and rubber
smallholders. In view of the downturn in agriculture and increasing migration
to urban areas, the Government recently reviewed its sectoral objectives and
announced a National Agricultural Policy (NAP). Maintaining the emphasis on



-2-
poverty alleviation, the NAP objectives are: (a) maximization of farm incomes
to improve the quality of rural life and facilitate retention of productive
Labor in the sector; and (b) expansion of production of traditional and new
export and food crops to revitalize the agricultural sector and to achieve
food security.
1.05      The Government's main objectives have been pursued through two basic
strategies: (a) land development and settlement to provide viable farm sizes
and adequate incomes, and to expand tree crop production for export through
well organized and managed settlement schemes; and (b) in situ development
projects designed to consoLidate small farms, rehabilitate idle lands,
increase productivity and improve farm management. This has led to develop-
ment of large land settlement schemes by the state governments and the Federal
Land Development Authority (FELDA); irrigation projects by the Ministry of
AgricuLture; land rehabilitation programs by the Federal Land Consolidation
and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA); and rubber replanting and mini-estate
development programs by the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
(RISDA). Under the NAP, these strategies will continue. However, greater
attention will be given to the problems of uneconomic farm units, unremunera-
tive crops and low productivity in the in situ development projects. This
includes mechanization, promotion of group farming with centralized management
and the intensification of integrated support services and credit for selected
crops.
B. Bank Sector Strategy
1.06      The Bank has consistentLy supported the Government's poverty alle-
viation objectives and institution building efforts in agriculture. Bank
lending for agriculture has concentrated on land development and settlement,
and irrigation. More recently, eiaphasis has also been given to programs
designed to raise productivity in existing smallholder areas, such as irri-
gaticn and drainage improvement, tree crop rehabilitation, land consolidation,
agricultural research and extension. To date, the Bank has made 25 agricul-
tural loans to Malaysia amounting to US$769.0 million.
1.07      In view of the sector's contribution to national output and poverty
alleviation, an important thrust of future Bank assistance to Malaysia will
continue to be for agriculture along the lines proposed in the NAP. Particu-
lar attention will be given to the solution of structural problems facing the
sector, through land consolidation and improved efficiency and management of
smallholder agriculture; and to strengthening the land development and settle-
ment programs, as the most effective way of providing viable farm units and
improving rural iiLcomes.



- 3 -
II. LAND DEVELOPMENT AND SETTLEMENT
A. Background
2.01      Malaysia has a long and successful history of government sponsored
and organized land development and settlement of small farmers and landless
rural families. The factors behind this success include the availability of
large tracts of agriculturally suitable forest Land; the introduction of
commercially valuable cash crops (rubber and oil palm); well designed and
profitable large-scale agricultural development programs, and management
models which, while adapted from the Malaysian private estate sector, allow
for effective settler participation; and substantial, well planned and managed
mobilization of government resources. Although land development and settle-
ment schemes have been implemented by several federal and state agencies, the
pacesetter and predominant agency has been FELDA.
B. Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA)
Organization and Management
2.02      FELDA wa3 established in 1956 as a Federal Statutory Body.  It
operates within the Ministry of Land and Regional Development, under policy
guidance and general supervision of a Board consisting of 13 members including
Covernment and private sector representatives. Day-to-day administration is
under the Director General assisted by two Deputy Director Generals for Opera-
tions and Services, and 16 specialized departments. At field level, FELDA is
organized by geographical area and development schemes. Since 1972, FELDA has
established eleven subsidiary corporations and entered into six joint ventures
with the private sector in order to provide specific development services and
down-stream activities to the settlement program. Each of these undertakings
is headea by a General Manager and operated on a commercial basis, largely
independent from FELDA, with its ownn staff and resources. The current organi-
zation structure of the FELDA group is shown in Annex 1.
2.03      FELDA staff numbered nearly 8,000 at the end of 1984.  Of these,
about 74% were in settlement schemes, 15% in operating departments, 9% in the
head office and 2% in training facilities and schools. Total personnel in the
FELDA group, including corporations and joint ventures, was 20,700. FELDA
management and staff are experienced and dedicated. Most senior managers
began in junior positions, many of them in the settlement schemes. Staff
recruitmenc and promotions are based on a vigorous in-service training,
supplemented by technical instruction conducted in FELDA's Institute of Land
Development, training cencers and schools, and academic and professional
courses in locaL institutions and abroad.
Development Strategy
2.04      FELDA's land develooment and settlement strategy consists of an
integrated package comprising: basic infrastructure, agriculturaL services,
Land clearing, planting; seleccion and emplacement of settlers; provision of
agricultural services including credit, technical assistance, inputs, pro-



- 4 -
cessing and marketing and communitv organization and sociaL amenities. Agri-
cultural development is based on tree crops, particularly oil palm and
rubber. Cocoa, sugarcane and coffee are also grown on a Limited scale.
Following the commercial estate concept, development of large settlement
areas, called complexes, are divided into settlement schemes, which are self-
contained agriculturaL production units, with their own management, labor and
settlement village. Settlers are placed in the schemes some two years aftpr
planting in oil palm schemes, and four to five years in rubber schemes. Each
settler is provided with a house on a 0.1 ha lot in the village. To ensure
efiicient land use and farming, oil palm settlers are not allocated individual
farm lots, but receive an unidentified 4.0 ha (10 ac) landholding within a
96 ha block shared by 24 settlers. The block is jointly farmed by the group
which shares profits. FELDA and its subsidiary companies provide management
and technical assistance, agricultural services, inputs aid credit, processing
and marketing, and keep settlers acccunts, thus ensuring loan repayments after
settlers receive a reasonable income.
2.05      After repaying long-term agricultural development and housing loans,
settlers who joined schemes before December 31, 1984 will be given individual
land titles. Settlers joining after this date will not receive land titles,
but will become shareholders of large production units. This has been intro-
duced to minimize differential incomes among settlers farming different crops,
and to preserve the commercial estate farming sysLz. after settler loans are
fully repaid.
Financing
2.06      FELDA's main sources of funds are grants and loans from the Govern-
ment, the Bank and other international lending institutions. Government
grants cover basic infrastructure investments and part of the administration
costs. Borrowed funds are used to finance agricultural development, settler
housing and processing facilities. FELDA's financial position is healthy, the
result of sound financial management. FELDA has benefited from the spread in
its relending of Government funds to settlers, and to its subsidiaries for
agricultural development and processing facilities. Government loans are for
20 to 25 years with 10 years of grace (five years interest free and five years
accrued interest) at 5k% to 6½%, which FELDA onlends at 1Z-2X above the
borrowed interest rates for periods of 13 to 15 years, with interest compound-
ing during two to seven-year grace periods. Additional surpluses have accrued
from management levies, replanting reserve funds and investment returns.
FELDA's investments are primarily in government bonds, fixed deposits, public
companies and FELDA subsidiaries.
2.07      As FELDA's financial position has improved, the Government has
reduced FELDA's dependence on Government funds. Since 1983, Government grants
for administrative expenditures have been decreased to 80% and management
levies and the spread on relending operations have been abandoned. Neverthe-
less, FELDA's cash availabilities are expected to increase to about M$1.4 bil-
lion or US$560 million by 1990. This must be viewed in the light of FELDA's
responsibility for maintaining settlers' incomes, which requires stabilization
reserves to take care of comn.mdity price changes and other contingencies.
Furthermore, FELDA's cash is readily available to Government and is largely



used to purchase medium-term government securities. FELDA has aLso begun to
reduce its dependence on government Loan for its commercial operations. The
recently approved FELDA Palm Oil Hills Project (Ln. 2530-MA), under which
FELDA borrowed directly from the Bank and bears the full cost of borrowing,
was a step in this direction.
Past Performance
2.08      As shown in the table below, at December 31, 1984. FETDA had
settled, mainly in Peninsular Malaysia, about 88,000 families in 367 sectle-
ment schemes comprising about 615,000 ha. The total area currencly in produc-
tion is over 370,000 ha. Basic infrastructure include: construction of
1,267 km of access roads, establishment of 214 settlement villages including
2,300 km of viLlage roads, and construction of water supply works for some
127 villages and urban centers serving 210 settlement schemes, including
permanent facilities for 121 of those schemes. During the 1981-1985 period of
the Fou.-th Malaysia Plan, FELDA undertook development of some 160,000 ha, or
301 of the national target under the Plan, for an annual average of 32,000
ha. Sectler families are being emplaced at an average rate of 6,000 per year.
Table 2.1: AREA DEVELOPMENT AND SETTLER INTAKE
(As of December 1984)
No. of    Area developed    Area in production   Settler intake
Crop           schemes    Hectares       Z      Hectares      Z        No.       Z
Oil palm          223       403,893      66      263,339      71    51,923       59
Rubber            129       187,596      30       96,664      26    35,577       40
Cocoa              13        18,005       3        6,900       1          -       -
Sugarcane           2         5,118       1        5,118       2        466       1
Total      367       614,612    100        372,021    100    87,946    100
Settler Incomes
2.09      FELDA settlers are recruited from smallholder and landless rural
families living below the relative poverty income level, currently set in
Malaysia at US$1,750 equivalent p.a. per family. Under FELDA's settlement
prog-am, average annual family income in 1984 was US$5,350, ranging from about
US$3,500 in rubber schemes to US$6,600 in oil paLm schemes. Higher incomes
from oil palm reflect generally better returns from this crop, but also high
international palm oil prices in 1984. Rubber incomes are likely to increase
as more schemes reach maturity. Lower profitability and farm incomes from
rubber schemes have led FELDA to virtually phase out new rubber plantings, and
to introduce a share system of ownership by which settlers are not given land
ownership, but share profits (para. 2.05). Average investment per family in
1984 prices is about US$22,300. incLuding site clearing and crop establish-
ment, village infrastructure, housing and management. Although this is high



- 6 -
compared to settlement schemes in other countries, it is reasonable consider-
ing higher costs and socioeconomic conditions in Malaysia. Lirthermore,
except for basic infrastructure and part of the management expenditures, all
agriculture investments and housing amounting to about 60Z of the overall
settlement cost are fully repaid by the settlers through long-term loans.
C. Land Settlement Infrastructure
2.10      The basic infrastructure provided under FELDA's integrated land
settlement package (para. 2.04) comprises access roads and settlement
villages. The latter includes village roads, water supply and treatment
facilities, schools, clinics and other public buildings. Among these, timely
provision of roads and waterworks is particularly critical, since they must be
completed prior to settler arrival. Within the framework of its overall
development plans, FELDA determines infrastructure requirements and construc-
tion schedules, ensures government funding, and coordinates and monitors
implementation. The Federal Government finances construction through
budgetary allocations to FELDA for roads and waterworks, and to the special-
ized ministries and departments for other works.
Public Works Department
2.11      All public works construction in Peninsular Malaysia is the joint
responlbility of the Federal and State Public Works Departments (PWDs or
JKRs).-   Under the Directorates of Roads and Water in Kuala Lumpur, the
Federal PWD (FPWD) has two specialized units in charge of engineering plann-
ing, design and procurement of FETDA roads and waterworks, which constitute
the bulk of the infrastructure. Planning and design of schools, hospitals and
other buildings are the responsibility of other FPWD directorates. At field
level, FPWD has four Federal Regional Units (FRU) specifically responsible for
all works construction, and road maintenance for FELDA's and other refional
development authorities' settlement schemes in the States of Pahang,-' Johor
and Negeri Sembilan, which have the largest concentrations of settlement
projects (see Organization Chart, Annex 2). In other states, all construction
is carried out by state PWD construction units; These institutional arrange-
ments, which were developed over several years of cooperation between FELDA,
FPWD and other departments and state governments, are generally satisfac-
tory. However, implementation of FELDA settlement projects is often affected
by works construction delays due to lack of planning and coordination short-
comings between FELDA and PWD, delays in selecting village sites and layout
designs by FELDA, and slow implementation by PWD. These shortcomings will be
addressed under the proposed project through improved coordination, and by
using private consultants for engineering designs and construction supervision
(see para. 4.02).
1J  JKR:  Jabatan Kerja Raja (Bahasa Malaysia for PWD).
2/   There are two FRUs in the state of Pahang.



-7-
Road Design and Construction
2.12      FELDA settlement roads are designed and constructed to PWD rural
roads geometric design standards according to Average Daily Traffic (ADT) (see
Annex 3). These standards have been used in FELDA and other Bank projects in
Peninsular and East Malaysia and are sacisfactory. Given their ADT, FELDA
roads generally fall within PWD's 01 to 03 standards for light traffic. Roads
are initially constructed with Laterite pavement, but main access roads are
bitumen paved when agricultural development peaks and cost savings justify
it.  Engineering designs are carried ouc by PWD staff and consultants.
2.13      Road construction is mostly carried out by local contractors.  Some
roads are being constructed oy force account by FRUs, but it is PWD policy to
phase out force account and to use only contractors in future. The local
construction capacity is adequate and the quality of construction is satis-
factory, but requires adequate supervision.
2.14      Road construction supervision is generally carried out by PWD
staff. However, PWD's practice of periodic transfer of engineers among
sectors, for promotion reasons, adversely affects construction supervision,
particularly at the state level. Because of these transfers, resident
engineers often lack the technical background and practical experience for the
job. Also, due to budgetary and administrative restrictions, PWD does not
always have the flexibility to create staff positions and provide supervisory
personnel. The problem of frequent staff transfers between sectors is common
to the Malaysian Civil Service. The proposed project would address the
quality of supervision by using consultants and providing on-the-job training
for junior staff (see para. 4.03).
Road Maintenance
2.15      State PWDs (SPWDs) are responsible for road maintenance, except in
the States of Pahang, Johor, and Negeri Sembilan where FRUs are responsible.
Maintenance is carried out by force account but, as in the case of road con-
struction, this is being gradually replaced by maintenance contracts.
Although road maintenance is generally satisfactory, it is affected by inade-
quate funding, particularly for state roads. In view of this, the Federal
Government has gradually assumed responsibility for funding FELDA roads
maintenance. It is the Government's stated intention that beginning in CY86,
all FELDA roads will be gazetted as federal roads, and maintenance will be
financed through annual grants specifically earmarked for these roads.
Average federal road maintenance grants amount to about US$2,500/km, which is
adequate when compared with CY85's US$1,900/km allocation for the state of
Pahang, where FELDA road maintenance is satisfactory. A technical assistance
component to improve the organization, scheduling, costing and management of
PWDts FELDA road maintenance operations was considered during appraisal of the
proposed project, but it was agreed that: (a) although some improvements
would be required nationwide, they would not be essential to ensure mainten-
ance of the roads to be financed under the proposed project and (b) these
improvements would be better addressed on a national basis, through a proposed
road rehabiliration projecc which is currently being prepared.



- 8-
Waterworks Design and Construction
2.16      It is government policy to provide settlement villages with piped
water supply and household connections. Water demand is based on quasi-urban
service. A survey of six FELDA villages during project preparation showed
that water demand in metered villages ranged from 80 to 106 liters per capita
per day (lcd); unaccounted-for water varied from 36% to 72Z with a mean of
57%, with losses due to deficient O&M and. in some cases, inadequace construc-
tion. In unmetered vilLages. wacer oroduccion was reportedly as high as
270 lcd. Technical design parameters are conservative and include high safety
factors to compensate for breakdowns and water losses due to deficient O&M.
Standard systems use surface sources and are designed to serve groups of
villages. Construction is carried out in accordance with village develop-
ment: initially, provisional intakes, partial treatment (chlorination) and
permanent reticulation systems and reservoirs are constructed for the first
villages to be established; permanent intakes, treatment and pumping facil-
ities are constructed later when additional villages are developed and feasi-
bility studies of the whole system are completed. Engineering designs of
permanent waterworks are usually carried out by consultants; construction is
by private contractors. Construction supervision is carried out by PWD staff
and is affected by the same constraints affecting roads (para. 2.14).
Waterworks Operation and Maintenance
2.17      Water management is a state responsibility.  Thus, after construc-
tion, FPWD transfers FELDA waterworks to the states, which then assume respon-
sibility for O&M and collect water charges through the SPWD's water divi-
sions. Water divisions are not autonomous, some are financially and manage-
rially weak, and O&H is deficient. The main constraints affecting O&M are
shortages of qualified staff and lack of clear operational and accounting pro-
cedures. Professional staff (engineers and technicians) are FPWD seconded
staff often with little or no previous water sector experience, and subject to
rotation outside the sector (para. 2.14). Middle and lower level state-
recruited technicians are in short supply in Malaysia, have minimum qualifi-
cations, and their training is limited to short courses and informal on-the-
job training. In response to this, the Bank is supporting government efforts
to improve manpower training and improve organization and management of state
water entities. The recently negotiated Johor Water Supply Project includes
technical assistance to expand FPWD training services for professional staff,
establishment of a training program for lower level staff, and technical
assistance to improve management and accounting systems in the State of
Johor. The proposed project includes a similar training program in the State
of Pahang (see para. 4.06).
2.18      FELDA settlers are required to pay water rates at the same level as
other users, but only after the initial settlement period, when farm incomes
permit. Prior to this, water is not metered and is used freely by settlers.
As confirmed by village surveys (para. 2.16), this has led to considerable
water waste and overdesign of water systems. Morever, due to lack of revenue
during these years. the states are reluctant to operate and maintain the
works. Alleviation of chis problem would be addressed under the proposed
project (para. 6.04).



- 9 -
D. Experience with Past Lending for FELDA
2.19      Since 1968, the Bank has made six Loans to assist impLementation of
six FELDA projects in the staEes of Pahang, Johor and Negeri Sembilan (Loans
533, 672, 885, 967, 1044 and 1590-MA).  A seventh loan directlv to FELDA (Loan
2530-MA) to assist construction of seven palm oil mills was signed in June
1985 and implementation is underwav.  Five ot the first six projects have been
successfully completed and the sixth is proceeding well.  These projects cover
some 66 settlement schemes, comprising development of 120.750 ha, construccion
of basic infrastructure and settlement of 29,450 families, and establishment
of rubber and oil palm processing facilities (see Annex 4). These projects
have made a substantial contribution to the Malaysian settlement program and
represent about 20Z of FELDA's Land development. Through its involvement in
these projects, the Bank has maintained a dialogue with FELDA, thereby helping
to improve FELDA's settlement program and institutional strength. This has
included: development of long-term integrated planning and implementation
strategies, particularly through the three Jengka triangle projects (Loans
533, 672 and 885-MA); improvements in accounting, management and procurement
procedures; strengthening of staff and operations of palm oil mills; contain-
ment of settlement costs per family; introduction of improved planting mater-
ials and wildlife preservation and control measures.
2.20      Four Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) 31 and a Project
Completion Report (PCR) on the first five projects state that they have all
been successful in meeting project objectives. Achievements in land deveL-
opment, crop yields, settler emplacement and incomes, and economic returns
have been well within targets and in many cases surpassed them. Implementa-
tion, however, was sometimes delayed due to deficient planting techniques and
crop damage by wild animals. Also, settler entry has been delayed by slow
construction of access and village roads and water supply works, a shortcoming
which would be addressed under the project.  A draft Impact Evaluation Report
of the Jengka Triangle projects (Loans 553, 672 and 885-MA) confirms the
PPARs' assessments, particularly regarding the socioeconomic impact of these
projects. The report highlights that the most important factors accounting
for project success and sustainability of benefits have been: project design,
government support, adequate organization and sound settlement system. It
also indicates that the projects' impact on the environment was found to be
less severe than expected at their completion.
E. Future FELDA Plans
2.21      FELDA plans, during the period of the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-90),
call for consolidation of ongoing settlement schemes covering some 92,000 ha,
and initiating deveLopment of about 83,000 ha of new land. While
consolidation will focus on Peninsular Malaysia, new land development will
concentrate on Sabah, East Malaysia. About 30,000 new families are expected
to be settled during the Fifth Plan. Total investments during 1986-1990 are
projected at about US$1 billion.
3/   PPAR Nos. 2122, 3024, 3978 and 4221.



- 10 -
2.22      Consolidation of ongoing schemes will focus on the completion of
basic infrastructure, particularly roads and water supply works, and process-
ing facilities to accelerate emplacement of settlers and production bene-
fits. The FELDA Palm Oil Mills Project (Loan 2530-MA) and the currently pro-
posed project support these efforts. Development and settlement of new Lands
will continue to be carried out under the existing strategy, which has been
successful. Agricultural development will be primarily in oil palm which is
more profitable and requires less labor than rubber; rubber planting will be
limited to steeper areas not suitable for oil palm.
2.23      Although FELDA is one of the world's most experienced Land
deveLopment agencies, it is now facing a change of circumstances which will
require different approaches. As plantings in the early settlement schemes
reach the end of their useful Life, replanting will become increasingly
important and, during the period following replanting, reduced settler incomes
from palm oil and rubber will make farming, at least temporarily, Less
attractive. Similarly, as the original settlers grow older and the younger
generat Lon migrates to urban areas, labor shortages may become a problem.
This would require development of new off-farm activities to enhance income
and keep young settlers on the schemes. Another is ie facing FELDA is the
loss of direct control over agricultural production and marketing, with the
risk of reduced productivity, when land titles are issued to settlers complet-
ing repayment of their development loans. Also to be addressed is the
decision to make new settlers shareholders, instead of granting them indivi-
dual land titles (para. 2.09). Finally, land development and settlement in
East Malaysia will require a different approach due to low popuLation densi-
ties, land issues, the geopolitical status of the two East Malaysian states
and the large influx of foreign labor from neighboring countries. Bank
involvement in the proposed project would permit continued dialogue on these
issues.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Preparation
3.01      In the past, Bank assistance to FELDA'S land settlement program has
been on a complex-by-complex basis. Bank loans have been used to finance
agricultural investments, farm roads, settler houses and crop processing
facilities, leaving the financing of access and village roads, water supply
works and other settlement infrastructure to the Covernment; this has limited
the Bank's leverage for timely construction and promotion of improvements in
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of these compo-
nents. During Government-FELDA-Bank discussions in late 1982 and early 1983,
it was agreed that the Bank could more effectively provide assistance to the
overall settlement program on a time-slice basis, and by shifting loan dis-
bursements to the infrastructure components of the land development and
settlement package. This would permit continuance of the dialogue on the
overall program, focusing attention on these components. The Government, in
turn, would finance agriculturaL and other expenditures from its own funds and
other sources. At the identification stage, it was decided that the proposed



- 11 -
project would be limited to setcLement roads and water supply facilities,
because these works constitute the main thrust of infrastructure investments
and are particularly critical at the early settlement stages. After initial
delays due to the fiscal constraints facing Malaysia. in January 1984 the
Government reinstated its request for Bank assistance for the project in
support of its economic recovery program.
3.02      Project preparation was the joint responsibility of FELDA and FPWD
staff. Based on its long-term development program, FELDA identified a number
of ongoing settlement complexes in Peninsular Malaysia, where access and
village roads and waterworks would be constructed during 1986-1990 under the
Fifth Malaysia Plan. Engineering designs have been carried out by local
consultants under FPWD's supervision and financed under the FELDA VI Project
(Loan 1590-MA). FELDA issued a project preparation report outlining project
objectives and scope in May 1984, and updated it in October 1984.
B. Project Objectives and Brief Description
3.03      The proposed projecc would support the Government's land settlement
program by assisting FELDA and PWD in providing basic infrastructure for
ongoing Land settlement schemes during the Fifth Malaysia Plan. It would
contribute to: (a) raise incomes and improve living standards of about 26,000
future settler families; (b) bring about agricultural development of and
production from about 105,000 ha in Peninsular Malaysia; (c) provide drinking
water to about 150,000 people in settlement villages; (d) improve PWD's civil
works construction supervision and waterworks O&M practices; (e) improve water
consumption practices in FELDA settlement villages, and (f) assist the
Government to overcome Malaysia's current fiscal and balance of payments
constraints.
3.04      The project would include:
(a)  construction of about 190 km of access roads, 650 km of village
roads and 18 bridges in FELDA settlement schemes in Peninsular
Malaysia;
(b)  construction of seven permanent water supply systems, including
intakes, treatment plants, conveyance mains, reservoirs and
reticulation mains, and provision of operation and maintenance
vehicles for some 44 settlement villages and townships with a total
population of about 150,000 people in the States of Johor and
Pahang; and
(c)  development and implementation of a traininw  program and technical
assistance to improve operation and maintenance of water supply
facilities in the State of Pahang.



- 12 -
C. Project Features
Roads
3.05      Settlement access and village roads would be constructed in twenty
settlement complexes for some 25 villages serving 65 settlement schemes with a
total area of about 105,000 ha of oil paLm, rubber and cocoa. A Lisc of the
proposed schemes, number of settLers, agricultural area, and road Lengths is
in Annex 5 (see Map 18997 for scheme Locations). [dentification of these
schemes was based on FELDA's current development plans, but could be subject
to change during implementation. Project roads would be constructed to PWD
Rural Roads Ceometric Design (see Annex 3) and construction standards which
are satisfactory, with some modifications agreed during project appraisal.
3.06      Access roads would link settlement schemes and villages with the
existing road network. Traffic would consist of service and passenger
vehicles and trucks transporting agricultural inputs, and oil palm and rubber
produce to and from processing facilities; traffic would grow as land develop-
ment progresses and crop production increases. Estimated average daily
traffic (ADT) of most access roads, on the basis of full agricultural develop-
ment, would range between 100-250 vehicles for which the PWD 02 standard
(8.5 m formation width and laterite surface) is adequate. Village roads would
constitute the layout and internal communication system of settler villages.
Based on 0.1-ha houselots and considering staff housing and public areas, a
typical settlement scheme of about 2,000 ha requires an average of 10 km of
village roads. To facilitate services, settler villages group the population
of at least four settlement schemes. Village road ADT is less than 100
vehicles and, therefore, would be constructed to PWD 01 standard :8 m forma-
tion width and laterite surface).
Water Supply Works
3.07      Annex 6 presents details of proposed waterworks, technical para-
meters and population data by water supply system and settlement complex.
(Project roads would also be constructed in five of the six settlement com-
plexes included in this component.) The project would not introduce major
changes to technical design parameters, but would place major emphasis on
improving O&M, as a preliminary step to bring about technical changes. The
proposed water supply systems are in different stages of development. All
have temporary intake structures; distribution mains, reservoirs and
reticulation systems have been constructed in some villages. The project
would provide for construction or permanent intake and treatment works and
completion of mains, reticulations and reservoirs for villages still lacking
them, including: (a) seven water intake structures and treatment and pumping
plants and associated works ranging in size from 2.3 million liters per day
(Mld) to 7.7 Mld and with a combined capacity of 32.3 Mld; (b) 90 km of
distribution mains with diameters of 150 mm to 400 mm; (c) eight service and
balancing reservoirs with a total volume of 76.4 Mld; (d) one booster pumping
station; and (e) reticulation systems and household connections and water
meters for nine villages.



- 13 -
3.08      Six water intakes would be of the riverbank type consisting of
submersible vertical pumps connecting directly to the treatment plants.  Field
investigations carried out with the assistance of the GeoLogical Department
showed unavailability of groundwater; but, for one of the svstems, riverbank
infiltration has been found viabLe and wiil be used.  Treatment works would
include aeration, flocculation, sedimentation, filtration and disinfection
facilities, high lift pumps and staff housing; where necessary, access roads
to the treacment plants would be provided. DistributLon pumping mains wouLd
be in concrete-lined steel pipes with bituminous wrapping; gravity distribu-
tion mains and reticuLation works wouLd be in asbestos cement pipe. Reticula-
tion works would include household connections and water meters. Reservoirs
would be constructed of reinforced concrete.
3.09      Funds would also be provided under the project for the purchase of
vehicles and equipment for waterworks operation and maintenance. A list of
the proposed equipment is shown in Annex 6.4.
Water Supply Training
3.10      This component aims at establishing in-house capabilities to satisfy
present and future training needs of medium and junior level staff for O&M of
water supply facilities in the State of Pahang. It would parallel similar
efforts being undertaken in the State of Johor under the Johor Water Supply
and Sanitation Project, recently appraised for Bank financing (para. 2.17).
The component would include: (a) establishment and staffing of a training
unit; (b) identification of training needs, followed by development and imple-
mentation of a training program for technicians and operators; (c) development
and implementation of O&M procedures and management systems; (d) provision of
about 48 man-months of experts (water sector trainer and operations special-
ist) to assist the Pahang Water Supply Division in the implementation of (a)
through (c) above; and (e) construction of training and accommodation
facilities for trainees and supply of related equipment and furniture.
Status of Project Preparation
3.11      Detailed engineering designs of 200 km of roads have been completed
and tendering is underway for construction during the first two years of the
project. Field surveys and designs of the remaining roads are underway and
would proceed during implementation. Feasibility studies and water
availability assessments of six of the seven proposed water supply systems
have been completed by local consultants; detailed engineering designs are
well advanced and would be completed by the end of CY1985. For the remaining
complex, riverbank infiltration investigations are in progress and feasibility
studies and final designs are scheduled for completion in the second quarter
of CY86.
D. Project Costs
3.12      Total project costs amount co US$97.4 million, including a foreign
exchange component of US$50.0 million or 51%. Agricultural development
expenditures are not included in total project costs. Base costs or 25X of
the roads have been estimated on the basis of detailed designs; for other



- 14 -
roads costs have been estimated per km in accordance with terrain and based on
PWD historical costs; base costs for waterworks have been determined from
feasibility designs. All base costs are in December 1985 prices. Project
costs include about US$9.4 million in identifiable taxes and duties. A
physical contingency of 102 has been included for waterworks, roads with
detailed design, engineering services and equipment, and 202 Eor roads not yet
designed. Price contingencies amount to 14t of base cost plus physical
contingencies, based on the following expected price increases; for Local
costs: 5% for 1986-1991; tor foreign costs: 7% for 1986-1987. 7.5Z lor 1988.
7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990, and 4.5% tor 1991. Details of tocal projecE
costs are presented in Annex 7 and summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Z         Z total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   foreign         base
--- (M$ million) ---    --- (US$ million) ---   exchange    cosc
Roads          /1
Construction                61.3    64.1   125.4    24.5    25.6    50.1            51         67
Engineering and
supervision                6.4      1.6      8.0     2.6      0.6     3.2        20          4
Training                      0.4     1.4      1.8     0.2      0.6      0.8        79          1
Subtotal Roads            68.1    67.1   135.2    27.3    26.8    54.1           50         72
Water Supply
Waterworks                   20.4    24.5    44.9      8.2      9.8    18.0         55         24
Engineering and
supervision                3.6      0.9     4.5      1.4      0.4      1.8       20          2
Vehicles and equipment        0.1     0.5      0.6     0.0      0.2      0.2        80          0
Training                     0.7      1.6      2.3     0.3      0.6      0.9        71          1
Subtotal Water Supply    24.8    27.5    52.3        9.9    11.0    20.9         53         28
Total Baseline Costs         92.9    94.6   187.5    37.2    37.8    75.0           50        100
Physical contingencies   12.4    12.6    25.0        4.9      5.1    10.0        50         13
Price contingencies       13.1    17.8    30.9       5.3      7.1    12.4        58         17
Total Project Costs      118.4   125.0   243.4    47.4    50.0    97.4            51       130
/1   Includes Engineering and Supervision.
E. Financing
3.13      The proposed Bank loan to Malaysia of US$50.0 million would finan:e
the project's foreign exchange cost, 57% of costs net of duties and taxes or



- 15 -
about 51% of total cost. The Government would finance US$47.4 million Erom
its own resources. Sources and application of project funds are shc,wn in
Annexes 7.4 and 7.5 and summarized in Table 3.2. Retroactive financing up to
US$2 million for expenditures made after May 31, 1985 in accordance witn Bank
guidelines is recommended (para. 3.16).
Table 3.2: FINANCINC PLAN
(US$ million)
World Bank          Covernment             Total
Amount   Z          Amount   Z           Amount   Z
Roads
Road construction-           33.6    47          37.2    53           70.8    73
Training                      0.9   100            -       -           0.9      1
Subtotal Roads            34.5    48          37.2    52           71.7    74
Water Supply
Water works/I                14.4    59           9.9    41           24.3    25
Vehicles and equipment        0.2    75           0.1    25            0.3      -
Training                      0.9    83           0.2    17            1.1      1
Subtotal Water Supply   15.5    60            10.2    40           25.7    26
Total Disbursement        50.0    51          47.4    49           97.4   100
/1   Includes Engineering and Supervision.
F. Procurement
3.14      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3: PROCUREHENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Item                 ICB           LCB      Other         Total cost
Civil works                   35.0          43.9         -             78.9
(16.4)/a     (20.7)         -            (37.1)
Equipment and vehicles         6.9           3.6         -             10.5
(5.2)        (2.7)        -              (7.9)
Engineecing                     -             -         8.0             8.0
and training services         -             -        (5.0)           (5.0)
Total                         41.9          47.5        8.0            97.4
(21.6)        (23.4)      (5.0)          (50.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses indicate amounts of Bank financing.



- 16 -
3.15      Civil works construction contracts costing US$2.0 million or more,
and equipment, vehicLes and pipe suppLy contracts costing US$200,000 or more
would be awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB). in accordance
with Bank guideLines; other contracts may be awarded on the basis of local
competicive bidding (LCB) procedures, which are satisfactory, and under which
foreign contractors would be aLlowed to participate. The local construction
industry is well experienced in the type of works incLuded in che project.
Several internationaL contractors are estabLished in the country and foreign
manufacturers of equipment are well represented through local suppliers, and
they are expected to participate in ICB and LCB. A margin of preference of
15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the actual customs duty and
import taxes, whichever is less, would be alLowed to domestic manufacturers.
To ensure efficient project implementation, adequate supervision and reason-
able ccmpetition, to the extent possible, contracts wouLd be grouped in pack-
ages of US$1.0 million or more for civiL works and US$200,000 for goods.
Also, for efficiency, pipeLaying works would be combined with village road
construction contracts by villages.  ConsuLtants for engineering, supervision
and training would be seLected in accordance with Bank guidelines. CiviL
works contracts over USS1.0 million and supply contracts over US$200,000 would
be subject to prior review. This would cover over 80% of the totaL value of
all contracts. Other contracts would be subject to selective post award
review.
3.16      Advance contracting is foreseen for several civil works and suppLy
contracts for which final designs have been completed (para. 3.13). Tender
documents and advertising have been carried out in accordance with Bank guide-
lines.
C. Disbursements
3.17      The proposed loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 47Z of civil
works; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment,
vehicles and materials, or 100% of the ex-factory price net of taxes for items
manufactured locally, or 75Z of local expenditures for equipment and materials
procured locally; and (c) 100% of expenditures for consulting services.
Disbursements against contracts for equipment, materials and training services
costing US$50,000 equivalent each, or less, and totalling no more than
US$500,000 equivalent will be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures. Documentation showing evidence of payment would not be
submitted to the Bank, but wouLd be maintained by FELDA for review by Bank
staff during supervision missions. All other disbursements will be fully
documented. To the extent practical, withdrawal applications would be
aggregated in amounts of US$100,000 or more.
3.18      The loan is expected to be disbursed over seven years according to
the schedule of disbursements shown in Annex 8. The schedule is about two
years faster than the historicaL profile for Bank loans to Malaysia, but is
comparable to disbursements under earlier FELDA land settlement projects.
Moreover, the project is a time-slice of an ongoing program, and engineering
designs and procurement of contracts for the first two years of implementation
are under way (para. 3.11). Loan closing is expected by June 30, 1993.



- 17 -
[V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      FELDA development plans call tor constructiol of project works
during the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-1990). but to allow for normal construc-
tion delays, project implementation is projected for 1986-1991.  Implemelita-
tion would be in accordance wich settlement schemes/village development plans,
which on average take Eour years as snown in Annex 9.1.  Selection of village
sites and engineering design of access and viLlage roads would begin the first
year simultaneously with crop planting, soon after clearing of agricultural
land is completed. Given the number of schemes involved, detailed road imple-
mentation schedules are not included. Waterworks are in an advanced design
stage and construccion would be in accordance with the implementacion sche-
dules shown in Annex 9.2. To ensure timely construction, the Bank would
review annual FELDA/PWD works construction programs and, if necessary, suggest
changes in light of the respective schemes' land development and settler
emplacement progress.
Institutional Respon.ibilities
4.02      Project imnflementation would be the joint responsibility of FELDA
and PWD.  FELDA woul.i be primarily responsible for overall planning and moni-
toring of implementacion and reporting through its Budget and Planning and
Engineering Departments. FPWD Directorates of Roads (DR) and Water Supply
(DWS), assisted by consultants, would carry out engineering designs and over-
see construction supervision. FPWD regional units (FRU) in the States of
Pahang (Temerloh and F,ukit Ibam), Johor (Kota Tinggi) and Negeri Sembilan
(Bahau) would be responsible for construction of all waterworks and about 65Z
of project roads. SPWDs would be responsible for construction of the remain-
ing roads in other states. After construction, road maintenance would be the
responsibility of FRUs and SPWDs with federal finance. Waterworks O&M would
be the responsibility of the States of Pahang and Johor.
Construction Supervision
4.03      The project would seek to improve works construction by strengthen-
ing construction supervision. DR and DWS would play a more active role in
monitoring construction progress and quality. PWD would employ local engi-
neering consultants to carry out construction supervision of all waterworks
and about 460 km of roads, including all roads and bridges under SPWDs'
responsibility, and some 145 km in Pahang (Lepar Hilir, Bukit Sagu arid Lepang
Nenering complexes). Other road contracts in Pahang, Johor and Negeri
Sembilan would be supervised by FRU staff, assisted by an advisory team, also
to be employed under the project by June 30, 1986, for a period of at least 24
months. The advisory team consisting of a Senior Road Engineer and Laboratory
Technician would be based in KuaLa Lumpur and would report to the Federal
Directer of Roads, through the unit responsible for FELDA roads. Through
periodic visits to FRUs the team wouLd assist the staff in the organization ot
supervision and Laboratory units, and che execution of supervisory work.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that: (a) FPWD would empLoy
Lonsultants, under terms of reference aoc?ptabLe to the Bank, to assist SPWDs



- 18 -
and FRUs in construction supervision of all waterworks and all roads con-
structed under the SPWDs' responsibility and selected roads in the States of
Johor and Pahang, and (b) by June 30, 1986, FPWD would appoint, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, two road construction specialists, each for
a period of at least 24 months, to assist in the organization of FRU construc-
tion supervision units and training of SPWD supervisory staff.
Road Maintenance
4.04      Road maintenance wouLd be the responsibility of SPWDs and FRU under
existing arrangements which are adequate (see para. 2.15). During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that: (a) after construction, all project
roads would be gazetted as federal roads and maintenance would be financed by
the Federal Government through annual budgetary alLocations to the states and
FRUs responsible for their maintenance; and (b) such allocations would be
determined in accordance with average routine and periodic maintenance costs
of similar roads in Malaysia.
Waterworks O&K and Staff Trainirng
4.05      After construction, FPWD would transfer responsibility for
waterworks O&M and financing to the States of Pahang and Johor. The states
would ensure that each system is adequately staffed, operated and maintained
in accordance with sound management and engineering practices. Assurances
were obtained that the Government would ensure that promptly after construc-
tion, water supply works and operation and maintenance vehicles and equipment
would be transferred to the respective state governments for operation, main-
tenance and finance, and the states would adequately staff the systems and
operate and maintain them in accordance with sound management, financial and
engineering practices. The training and technical assistance program to be
established under this and the Johor Water Supply Project (para. 2.17) would
ensure adequate training of O&M engineers and technicians and improvement of
overall water supply management operations in Pahang and Johor.
4.06      Implementation of the Pahang training program would be a joint
Federal and State responsibility through FPWD's DWS and the State of Pahang's
Water Supply Division (PWSD) according to the schedule shown in Annex 9.3.
FPWD would establish and staff the Pahang Training Unit (PTU), employ consul-
tants, construct training facilities and operate the PTU during the initial
three years; funding for investments and the initial operating period would be
by the Federal Government. The PWSD would actively participate in the design
and establishment of the unit and after the establishment period would assume
full management and financial responsibility for its operation.
4.07      The PTU would be managed by three professionals and four middle
level staff who would be trained as trainers under the project. Two inter-
nationally recruited Training and Operational Advisors would be employed by
June 30, 1987 for a two-year period to assist FPWD in establishing the PTU and
development and initial implementation of the training programs. PTU staff
and advisors would jointly review PWSD's organization and management struc-
ture, prepare a job description for each post, develop working procedures and
standards, identify training needs and design, and implement t-aining pro-



- 19 -
grams. Training facilities would be constructed at the Bukit Sagu Treatment
Plant (also to be constructed under the project), near Kuantan, and would
consist of classrooms, laboratory and workshops, and hostel accommodations for
35 individuals. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Govern-
ment will establish a training unit for operators and technicians of water
supply systems in the State of Pahang; staff, fund and operate the unit during
the first three years after establishment; by June 30, 1987, employ, under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, two internationally recruited
advisors each for a period of at least 24 months, to assist in the establish-
ment and initial operation of the training unit; and cause the State of Pahang
to participate in the establishment and initial operation of the unit, and to
assume full management and financial responsibility after the third year of
operations.
Monitoring and Reporting
4.08      FELDA's Budgeting and Planning Department would be respensible for
project monitoring, reporting and submission of loan disbursement applica-
tions. Project implementation reports would be submitted semi-annually, and a
project completion report would be prepared within six months of the loan
closing date.
Accounts and Audit
4.09      FELDA and PWD maintain detailed accounts which are subject to normal
government control and audit procedures; FELDA accounts are audited by inde-
pendent private auditors. During negotiations assurances were obtained that
separate project accounts for FELDA and PWD would be maintained and audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and that the audi-
torsI reports would be furnished to the Bank within six months following the
close of the Government's fiscal year.
Environmental Impact
4.10      Planning and implementation of Malaysia's land settlement program is
carried out to minimize negative and physical effects on the environment. The
Government over the years has issued a number of regulations to overcome and
prevent environmental problems. FELDA has been very responsive to these regu-
lations and has developed practical solutions to environmental issues. Learn-
ing from experience, it has corrected planning and implementation shortcomings
which affected early projects, such as those in the Jengka area. Master
development plans include national parks and reserves for preservation of
indigenous species. Tribal groups are provided with compensatory land and
actions are taken to safeguard their interests and enhance their well-being.
Land with slopes above 200 is excluded from cultivation, maintained in forest
and protected; cleared land is promptly planted with trees and fast growing
cover crops to prevent erosion; water effluents from crop processing facili-
ties are treated to reduce biological and solid contamination to safe levels
in accordance with strict envircnmental standards (BOD: max 100 ppm; TSS:
max 400 ppm). Provision of health services and potable water, which would be
supported under the project, prevent the occurrence of endemic diseases. The
existence of protected reserves notwithstanding, wild life, particularly ele-



- 20 -
phants, have caused destruction in plantation areas which obstructed access to
grazing areas. Also, up to now, the impact of Land clearing on wild life has
not been fully assessed. However, the Government recently submitted to Par-
liament a bill which would require, inter alia, the carrying out of an
EnvironmentaL Impact Assessment prior to undertaking any new land development
project. Gazetting of this bill is expected in early 1986. Furthermore,
agreement was reached during negotiations that project implementation would be
carried out in accordance with appropriate environmental standards.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
5.01      Construction of project infrastructure, particularly roads, would
ensure settler emplacement and full agricultural development of an estimated
105,500 ha comprising 65 ongoing settlement schemes in Peninsular
Malaysia.- Initial development of these schemes started within the 1979/80
and 1985/86 planting seasons, and about 80Z of the area has been cleared and
partially planted. Of this area, some 79,800 ha (76%) are being developed to
oil palm, 24,100 ha (23%) to rubber and only some 1,600 ha (1%) to cocoa. The
large proportion of oil palm area reflects the strong shift from rubber culti-
vation in Malaysia in recent years, due to higher profitability, faster
returns and lower labor requirements. This shift also reflects the fact that
steeper areas which are more suitable for rubber than for oil palm are
increasingly being retained in forest. Crop development would be in accor-
dance with current FELDA agricultural practices, developed since the late
fifties and comparable to the Malaysian private estate sector. Tree crop
production areas in Peninsular Malaysia enjoy fairly uniform climatic condi-
tions and are located on soils selected for good production capability; there-
fore, with the benefit of FELDA's management and production inputs, oil palm
and rubber production yields in project-assisted schemes are expected to be in
the same range of those in earlier schemes (see Annex 10). Crop processing
and marketing would be efficiently carried out by the several FELDA subsidiary
corporations. Most natural rubber and oil palm would be exported through well
established export channels. International demand for these commodities is
expected to grow and long-term market prospects are considered favorable.
Oil Palm Production, Processing and Marketing
5.02      Oil palm comes into production in the third year after planting.
Yields in terms of fresh fruit bunches (ffb) increase rapidly from about
1 ton/ha in the third year after planting, to 22 ton/ha or higher, depending
on environmental conditions, in years 7 through 10. Yields then slowly
decline, to about 20 ton/ha up to year 16. By year 25, when yields fall to
12 ton/ha, palm stands reach the end of their economic life. Average yield
over the 25 year period is estimated at 17 tons ffb/ha for a total of
430 ton ffb/ha over the Life of the stand. Palm oil and kernel yields also
4/   Agriculturai development of two settlement complexes for which only
waterworks would be constructed under the project is not included in this
figure.



- 21 -
vary with palm age and processing efficiency.  Crude Palm Oil (CPO) extraction
rates as a percentage of ffb weight rise from about 12% in the first year
after planting to 20% in year five and thereafter. Kernel extraction rates
are around 4Z. The combined annual ffb production from project-assisted
schemes at full development is estimated at 1.7 million tons, yielding some
350,000 tons CPO and 70.000 tons of palm kernel which would be about 3.7% of
total Malaysian production in 1995.
5.03      Oil palm ffb processing would be carried out by FELDA MiLls Corpora-
tion (FELMILL) which purchases ffb from the settlers at a price determined
monthly through a formula reflecting CPO and kernel extraction rates, ex-
factory sale prices and processing costs. CPO and kernel transport and
marketing would be handled by FELMILL in cooperation with two other FELDA
subsidiary corporations: FELDA transport and FELDA marketing (FELMA). CPO
would be refined in Malaysia and most of it would be exported.
Rubber Production, Processing and Marketing
5.04      Rubber tapping begins in the sixth year after planting, when about
70% of the trees will have attained standard tappable girth. The bark exploi-
tation period is about 12 years, during which dry rubber yields increase
gradually from 300 kg/ha to 1,800 kg/ha. Tapping chen continues on the renew-
ed bark with declining yields until year 25, when trees reach the end of their
economic life. The annual average yield during the economic life span is
about 1,300 kg/ha for a total production of about 33 tons/ha. The combined
annual production from project assisted schemes at full development is esti-
mated at 43,000 tons of dry rubber, which is about 3% of total production in
Malaysia in 1995.
5.05      Rubber processing and marketing would be carried out by the FELDA
Rubber Industry Corporation and FELMA. About 75% of production is normally
processed as rubber latex into crumb rubber under the Standard MaLaysian
Rubber (SMR) scheme in mills located in the production area. Most would be
graded SMR 20; scrap and cup lump rubbers would be processed into lower SMR
grades. The remaining 25% of the crop is processed as bulk latex concentrate
for export.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The project would bring about social, economic and institution
building benefits. Construction of access and village roads would ensure
settlement of some 26,000 families and development of some 105,0C-G41a of oil
palm and rubber. Under the settlement program, each family would be entitled
to a 4 ha (10 ac) landholding or equivalent share in established oil palm or
rubber. During crop establishment before harvesting, settlers would receive
subsistence incomes. At full development, settler family incomes would range
from US$3,500 to US$6,600 p.a., compared with the poverty income level of
US$1,750 p.a. Construction of water supply facilities, housing and other



- 22 -
infrastructure provided under the land settlement package would improve the
living standard of settler families. By 1990, annual palm oil and rubber
production from project-assisted schemes would generate about US$234 million
in foreign exchange earnings per year. Provision of consulting services for
construction supervision and staff training would improve che quality of works
and reduce maintenance requirements. EstabLishment of the water supply train-
ing program would support government efforts to improve O&M and management
operations of water supply facilities nationwide, and in the State of Pahang
in particular. Finally, the proposed loan would assist the Government to
overcome the country's balance of payments and fiscal constraints.
B. Cost Recovery
6.02      Investments in basic settlement infrastructure, including roads,
water supply and public buildings would not be directly recovered. However
agricultural development expenditures, including those for farm roads and
FELDA's field management, totalling some US$338 million, would be repaid by
settlers through long-term loans. In addition, settlers would pay a rubber
replanting cess, export duties and income tax.
Water Tariffs
6.03      Water suppLy facilities for land settlement schemes are transferred
by the Federal Government to the states as grants and, therefore, would not be
recovered by the Federal Government. However, settlers would be required to
pay residential water tariffs after five years of initial settlement
(para. 2.18) at the same levels as urban dwellers. Uniform water tariffs are
determined by each state but differ for residential and commerciaL users.
Residential tariffs increase with consumption. Although there is no prescrib-
ed federal policy on tariffs, guidelines require that state tariffs fully
cover O&M costs and contribute to capital investment costs. Under these
arrangements, operation of the water supply systems financed under the project
is not expected to be a financial burden to the states, provided that free
water to settlers during the initial settlement period is limited and billing
and collection are adequate.
6.04      During preject preparation, FPWD recommended that state governments
should limit free water to settlers during the initial settlement period to
basic needs, initially estimated at no more than 18,000 liters/month/family.
Consumption above this volume would be charged at standard rates. The level
of free water would still be somewhat high and should eventually be revised,
but establishing it is a first step to control waste and reduce O&M costs.
However, it is left to each state to adopt FPWD's recommendation. During
negotiations therefore assurances were obtained that the Federal Government
would take steps to ensure that the States of Pahang and Johor will limit free
water to settlers during the initial settlement period to a volume sufficient
to meet basic needs, as determined by FPWD, and after December 31, 1986, such
amount would not exceed 18,000 liters/month/family. An understanding was also
obtained that: (a) FPWD would periodically review, and if necessary revise,
free water allowance levels to settlers and advise the states accordingly; (b)
water meters would be installed in each property at the time of construction
of each village reticulation system; and (c) FELDA would assist the states in
collecting water charges from settler households.



- 23 -
C. Economic Evaluation
6.05      Infrastructure investments are an integral part of the land develop-
ment and settlement package (para. 2.04), and their economic justification is
based on overall performance of the package. Bank experience has been that
FELDA projects, without exception, are economically viable (para. 2.20). The
schemes to be assisted under the project would develop the same crops (oil
palm and rubber), have the same characteristics and are expected to yield com-
parable economic returns as those financed in the past. The economic evalua-
tion of the proposed project was carried out on the basis of five selected
settlement complexes which, while being a representative sample of all
project-assisted complexes, are affected by the least favorable conditions in
terms of cropping pattern and infrastructure costs (see Table 6.1 below). The
economic rates of return (ERR) of these complexes range from 14X to 26%, (see
Annex 11) with lower returns from complexes with a higher proportion of the
area in rubber and long access roads. ERRs of other project-assisted settle-
ment complexes are expected to be higher. Moreover, Bank-financed project
roads would be subject to Bank review and acceptance of detailed engineering
design, and each settlement complex must show an ERR of at least 10Z, the
opportunity cost of capital in Malaysia.
Table 6.1: GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF SETTLEMENT COMPLEXES
SELECTED FOR ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Agricultural area               Access Road    ERR
Complex name         Oil palm           Rubber    Total      (km)  ($M7km)    X
{*ha)            (ha)  (Z)      ha
Bukit Sagu-Cerul    7,595  100           -    -    7,595      30   200,000      26
Sg. Aring Barat     7,581   81       1,759   19    9,340      34   282,000      21
Lepang Nenering     1,357   74         485   26    1,842      20   300,000      16
Bera Selatan        4,390   57       3,316   43    7,706      25   160,000      15
Sg. Aring Timur     3,765   48       4,132   52    7,897      16   512,000      14
6.06      Agricultural development of project-assisted settlement complexes
would be in oil palm and rubber. The complexes selected for evaluation were
those with one or more of the following conditions: (a) high proportion of
rubber area, whose value is lower than oil palm; (b) longer access road com-
pared with crop area (village road length is not a decisive factor, since it
is proportional to the number of settler families and crop area); and (c) high
road construction cost per km.
6.07      The ERRs were calculated following the producers surplus approach
under the following assumptions:  (a) crop development was projected in accor-
dance with FELDA's planting program (see Annex 5) and agricultural investments
estimated on the basis of average historic costs per ha which are satisfac-
tory; (b) crop production was estimated on the basis of historic yields (see



- 24 -
Chapter V and Annex 10); (c) value of production was calculated using the
Bank's projected international prices converted to farmgate prices; (d) infra-
structure costs include roads, and water supply construction and maintenance
expenditures; and (e) no aLLowance was made for social benefits derived from
the project.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.08      The resuLts of sensitivity and switching value tests to examine the
consequences of changes in benefits and costs are shown in Tables 6.2 and 6.3
beLow. With the exception of Aring Timur, the selected settLement schemes can
suffer either cost increases or benefit decreases of 20% or more and still
remain economically viable; the ERR is more sensitive to changes in agricul-
tural benefits than to changes in production and total costs; road costs would
have to increase substantially to cause significant reductions in the ERR.
Table 6.2: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS TEST (Z)
Bukit
Sagu-     Aring      Lepang    Bera       Aring
Cerul     Barat   Nenering   Selatan   Timur
Base case                           26         21       16          15          14
Benefits
increased by 10X                  30        25        19          17         16
decreased by 10%                  22         18       13          13          11
decrease by 20%                   17         14       10          10          8
Total costs
increase by 102                   22         18       14          13         12
increase by 20%                   19         15       11          11          9
Benefits decrease by 10%
and cost increase by 10%          18         15       11          10           9
Production costs
increase by 1OZ                   23         19       15          13         12
increase by 20%                   21         17       13          12         11
Roads investment costs
increase by 10%                   26        21        16          15         14
increase by 20%                   25        20        15          15         13
Benefits Lagged by two
years                             15         13       11          10           9



- 25 -
Table 6.3: SWITCHING VALUES (Z)
for 10X /a
Base          Total       Road         Total
ERR          benefits    costs         costs
Bukit Sagu-Cerul             26            -35         869            54
Sg. Aring Barat              21            -29         424           41
Lepang Nenering              16            -21          154           26
Bera Selatan                 15            -19         487            23
Sg. Aring Timur              14            -14          170           17
/a   Opportunity cost of capital in Malaysia.
D. Project Risks
6.09      There are no major risks associated with the project.  FELDA's
experience in implementing the integrated settlement package ensures its time-
ly implementation and sustained levels of agricultural production and benefits
to settler families.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained on the following
points:
(a) FPWD would: (i) employ consultants, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, to assist SPWDs and FRU in construction
supervision of all waterworks, all roads constructed under the
SPWDs' responsibility and selected roads in the State of Pahang and
(ii) by June 30, 1986, appoint, under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank, two road construction specialists, each for a period of
at least 24 months, to assist in the organization of FRU con-
struction supervision units and training of SPWD supervisory sLaff
(para. 4.03);
(b) After construction, all project roads would be gazetted as federal
roads and maintenance would be financed by the Federal Government
through annual budgetary allocations to the states and FRUs respon-
sible for their maintenance. Such allocations would be determined
in accordance with the average routine and periodic maintenance
costs of similar roads in Malaysia (para. 4.04);
(c) The Government would ensure that (i) promptly after construction,
water supply works and operation and maintenance vehicles and
equipment would be transferred to the respective state governments



- 26 -
for operation, maintenance and finance; and (ii) the states would
adequately staff the systems and operate and maintain them in
accordance with sound management, financial and engineering
practices (para. 4.05);
(d)  The Federal Government will:  (i) establish a training unit for
operators and technicians of water supply systems in the State of
Pahang; (ii) staff, fund and operate the unit during the first three
years after establishment; (iii) by June 30, 1987, employ under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, two internationally
recruited advisors each for a period of at least 24 months, to
assist in the establishment and initial operation of the training
unit; and (iv) cause the State of Pahang to participate in the
establishment and initiaL operation of the unit, and to assume full
management and financial responsibility after the third year of
operations (para. 4.07);
(e)  separate project accounts for FELDA and PWD would be maintained and
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
the auditors' reports furnished to the Bank within six months
following the close of the Government's fiscal year (para. 4.09);
Cf)  project implementation would be carried out in accordance with
appropriate environmental standards (para 4.10); and
(g) The Federal Government would take steps to obtain that, for schemes
settled after December 31, 1986, the states of Pahang and Johor
would limit the amount of free water to settlers during the initial
settlement period to a volume sufficient to meet basic needs, as
determined by FPWD, and after December 31, 1986, such amount would
not exceed 18,000 liters/month/family (para. 6.04).
7.02      An understanding was also reached that:  (a) FPWD would periodically
review, and if necessary revise, the levels of free water allowance to
settlers and advise the states accordingly; (b) water meters would be
installed in each property at the time of construction of each village reticu-
lation system; and (c) to the extent possible, FELDA would assist the states
in collecting water charges from settler households (para. 6.04).
7.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$50.0 million to Malaysia. The loan would have a repay-
ment period of 15 years, including a grace period of three years, at the
standard variable interest rate.



MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
FELDA Group Organizaion Chart
Putamel & ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~CAPCama
1      , 4   Aa1*~4t'otc'1    1toca.                          .      I                    1
Sao e6-fiot             jd t& lww'        01 P?cmg            1fgIa
HOW d Au3t                                           He~~~~~~Aq~M*aSv~.  adOlAxV*I
[H:1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FED 01 FElodc
E~~~~~~~~~~IKa {           > *    OO  rAecta 2l  soti nocowt          G    Managr       Ge XrwMag            M"           mwabcug MN
fELD SatorI    ROK _ _    OSont &or   R &n Flrv      D  oStk PFr-or     G =wruti    _      9L0% Se"co1>        _                t(a
QDSa.* csooc" DtLtp'Ta                                                                                                         w  S      1t  ' Prg  C-kAS1 n Do a  Go a M kauw
A     m Srton        L, W r                                                 >m
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wa Mm co                            M-C                                                     z
50=0~~ ~ ~  ~ lVttra9lFc  L                                                                                        m& iat2wl         >
X r 1 Z , It~~~~~~~~~~~
RHC5t (EL-^                       |              g |               - g                        wa                 lx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ti t1, 
cwv  rwo



MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Publlc Works Depaortent
Peninsular Malaysla
Organizatlon Chart
Ministmr d
Public WMOrKS
_ _  _   _   _   _   _     _   _atow   I
r  -   I
Dlector      Pub~itc Wo,i3enr
1--   rector                                                                                         Deputv Director
I  Clemrl                                                                                                        I  G 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lt                                                                                 Dwoocc toL
-|    Dict/    |                    3                                           9             1     u     3       C      A3~~echaica
Director                           J    DiectDc    -Octa                                                                   D e a     L
Wbler Works  |                        |   EucTxcl    |                          |    ritqects   |    |   llugs    1                 lectncal
WCd kuik-27578



- 29 -                              ANNEX 3
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PWD Rural Roads Geometric Design Standards
Group                      Unit           01               02               03
ADT two ways                Veh/day         <100 -         100-250          250-400
Terrain                       -            F R M            F R M            F R M
Design speed                 km/h         50 50 30        60 50 40         80 60 50
Pavement type                 -          laterite         laterite
Surface width                 m             4.5              5.0              6.0
Usable shoulder
width - min /a              a        1.25 1.25 1.00  1.25 1.25 1.00  2.00 2.00 1.00
Formation widtth/b            a         8.0 8.0 8.0      8.5 8.5 8.5    11.0 11.0 9.0
Reserve width - min           m              20             20 30             30
Maximum gradient              Z            7 9 10          6 8 10            4 6 9
Critical grade
length /c                   a       Not applicable   Use lay byes    350 180 120
Stopping sight dis-
tance - min /d              m          60 60 60         80 60 60         110 80 60
Passing sight dis-
tance - min                 a        Use lay byes    430 350 350       560 430 350
Minimum radius                a          80 80 30         120 80 50       210 120 80
Transition curve mini-
mum length /e                m       Not applicable      70 60 60        80 70 60
Widening                      a       0.75 1.00 1.50  0.75 1.00 1.50   - 1.00 1.25
Superelevation              Ratio           1:10             1:10            1:10
Camber/cross fall           Ratio           1:25             1:30            1:30
Vertical curve crest
minium K /f                 m1          10 1010          15 10 10        30 15 10
Vertical curve sag
dinimum K /f                m%          12 128           16 12 10        24 16 12
Bridgr,
Overpass widths
between parapets          m             7.0              7.5              8.0
Underpass widths
between abut walls        m             7.0              7.0              8.5
Vertical clearance
over roadways             m            4.50             4.50             4.50
/a  Shoulders to be paved with laterite material.
7TW Formation width includes 0.5 m each side for rounding.
T7  Use truck climbing lanes if critical grade length is exceeded.
7Td Stopping sight distance to be increased on downgrade.
7e  Values given are for minimum length required for 10% superelevation run-off
spiral should not be less than run-off length. See A.A.S.H.O. for minimum run-
off length of other radii and superelevation rates.
/f  Minimum leugth of vertical curve:
"tL" - KA, L - Curve length in meters; A - Algebraic difference of grade in per
cent.
Abbreviations:           m      - meter                   F       - Flat
R      - Rolling                 M       - Mountainous
VEH    - Vehicle                 DBL    - Double
DES    - Desirable               VAR    - Variable
Source:  KPKR/J/R/STD/35.



MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Summary of FELDA's Bank-Financed Projects
Palm oil mills
Project name, loan            No. of   Settler          Crop area (ha)                 Capacity      PPAR number
number and amount             schemes  families  Oil palm  Rubber   Total   No.  (FFB ton/hr)          and date
Jengka I
(Ln 533-MA; $14.0 m)               7      2,770    10,530    1,620   12,150   3           103       2122; 06/30/78
Jengka II                                                                                                                0
(Ln 672-MA; $13.0 m)               7      2,770      6,800    5,265   12,065   1           54       3024; 07/18/80
Jen8ka III
(Ln 885-MA; $25.0 m)               9      3,848      9,618    6,857   16,475   1           54       3978; 06/!°i82
Johore Tengara
(Ln 967-MA; $40.0 m)              16      7,550    30,301          -   30,301   5         270       4221; 12/13/82
Keratong
(Ln 1044-MA; $36.0 m)             10      5,100    20,960          -   20,960   3         162       PCR; 07/19/84
FELDA VI
(Ln 1590-MA; $28.0 m)             17      7,400    15,300   13,500   28,800   2           108       -
FELDA Palm Oil Mills
(Ln 2530-MA; $31.2 m)              -          -          -         -        -   7         351       _
Total                        66     29,438    93,509   27,242  120,751  22         1,102



69IS  I "tl      "   an             =&2 8'   H!           O2IOt    CUt          112'SOI      I.I'I        *11S  t N-L'L*             D'G!                                                                 1 ea
oo'eoa    u            O1'9    li            .I:u'                                  *g't         on
x                                  0t        Ctl It                 £ e:I'! ahSU't                                     SR?            ? nsl/E                                 t hUL  II
|               1g'l               @0l  0Y               olL       K            S'          @uli                                   I                to/to 's 5108,  tAi  Ibs
ml^                                 @0'  I  o0't  o0     o0@'l    e             9tll                      Ct'          *ht1 tt       S              To/fl                      U)Iissi  An 9              8w
JsT'"       eeet    s               mehoz    fiv          OWNo   65             m",Q         oeli         L60,61       l*b1st       Ulf':
ml$                                molt    ot             oeo      sz           "III                      Olt's        ebr*         Ut'll           to/to                      twelIns '^§
N9li                               009'    91                                   11061                     till!        Ubt          911              1l/OS                       Jti*d a1a3
WLL '1                             oe'    kg                                    *lAl uoWL                              1W'  UOL'E Cif/OS                                               W X3
mle                                e"ffz    n                                   tili                                   tili*        6zll             to/O                              alm
CC1'C                              Wllc   It              Oil       I           uo's         Nol                       CAL'L         elle           6uL                         onn nial
SE1l                               019'E     Y            @1 is  0l 1            WII                                   c6si'        911'!           II/EO                    l"e -s fif                  IWP
@09lt                              WYe       LI                                 lE'tS                     UOS           IL6'G       6LL't           toile                        fill"  n      l    9    l5 d
_-                     ._-       .                                    . -.....                             ...         .....
"li                                e"l       z it'                                                        toXli        siis         6till           0t'6L                     Jill#l bIvit8s   " l!v  S 8XP
,,'Ll        M's it Ie              @0111   LII           oCt'0    9! 'tz nEC'                                         USmI         110'!
s "zVl            eee«      t            eeg s   c              ootse    *l           iU                        itSi         C9l't         il'lf          toile                   Moll uvli  's5
II*" *1     II'N    ER                                    ml9O &    H           OKI'&                      CL'I        lWa';        Ui'E            IsiOa                   liflI 1114 '15
SK'11       WE'l ZI'    GS                                009'Z    91           CII'L                     liill        1U'!9        IOS'I           II/Ol                            %'                 wInl3
@It II           09I       I            EL!                       EL9                       191             toile                       fll if'll                 899513
___ ____ __ ____~~~~~~~~...                            ..         ......       ---                       .....    _ _ .__._______
mlis                                G11'I   CSI           ON'l    0 ot          I9L'tl       OK           tit          *Uci         Etil 
ons                                on        L            OK       1            El!                                    En           9m Cm/ll                                  luwAu  SnlAr
mLl$                               HI'!    it             OO'I   SI             [lit 9'Et                              tot's        6cl             EU16L                      "'U   hulud
6eI'                               Co@t    03             OeI'    S             lfl'         r            S            111'I        135'            IS/E                              tII"N
follo                               Wt6      e            oezll    oi           n$t                                    mle          m               felli                      inji INld
ZI'C                              OW"'                   0t1'1    E            tt'lt                                  LC'          Ste             [B/il                             fling
.tl                              eee"    oz             Olt       z            Lg't                                   mls         it§              bil/8      lwibel  .1    uelitl nin                 4,1040
3151      '@01.113W      .13l   I0W.U103   H           1000.I150s    HI         -- -         "ml-         5 1131fL9 . .l 'l3S                INIJt3An                           1H31IM         3111S
UIOI      to.)lIIM        1111   (0eee 50          mlX   (00e sIseo  1WI          ------1r  M3               113    ...........--    JD 'Oll   IllNdowU3d                        103il1l1l3
SMINISM               Sin1             MM 39MIA 111M                           0 Al 553J                                                                1
___~~~._............................____........................_.__. _.. ._.... __.... .. . _._.... _......... .... .... .... ...... ... .. .............. ........................... .... ...... ......
113UII Al IOe MIIIAX DIN s3"V 0350ZaDV
133MUM  3N11f15IIV      113131113S @511
1WiIiWi



- 32 -                                                     ANNEX 6.1
MA!AYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Water SuppIv Component - Details oa  Project Works by Settlement complex
Lepar H11tr            Leper Utar'             Nukit Sagu           Ters&ng (Koyan)             Teneggroh               Nitar
(Plhang)               (Paheng)               (Pabstsi)               (Pshang)                 (Juhor)                (Johor)
A.  Works Completed or under Construction, and not Financed under the Project
- Temporary intake;  - Two temporary           - Temporary supply    - Temporary intake;   - Temporary Intake;   - Temporary intake;
intakes                 from  lukit Kuantan
- Distritution maina                              plant                - Distribution mains - Distrtbution mains - Dtstribution main
to balancing res-  - Reservolrs for                                    to balanctng res-       to balancing res-       Lu reservoir fnr
ervoirs, villages      urban centers A&B   - Reservolr. for            ervoirs                  rvoirars, uillags      viLisges 1-2;
1-3; dnd 4;                                    villages 1-3                                    1; 2-4; 6; 3-7
- Reticulation                                 - ReservoIrs                                    - Reservoir fnr vi-
- Reservoirs. vil-        Centers ALB          - Reticulation, vil-                            - Reservoirs for           lages 1-2;
lages 1-3; 4; and                              lage I                - Reticulation, vil-    villages 1; 2-4;
5-7;                                                                   lages 1-3 Tersang       6; S-t;               -  ItLculatton. vii-
and viLlages 1-3                                lages 1-2
- Reticulation, vil-                                                     Koysn                 - Reticulation, vil-
lages 1-4                                                                                      lages 1; 2-4; 6;
5-7
S. Works to be Constructed and Financed Under the Project
- Intake               - To Intakes            - Intake                - Intake                - intake                - Intake
- Treatment and        - Two treatwents snd  - Treatment and           - Treatment and         - Treatment and         - Treatment and
assuciated works       associated works        assocLated works        associated works        associated vorks        associated works
Distributton mains - Distribution mains  - Distributlun mitne                                - Ristng mains con-
to reservoir for       to reservoir for        to reservoirs fur                               niection to distri-
villages 5-7;          Centers A.B,C and       villages 1-3; 4-5;                              bution mlans
ViLlage Town;           6-7;
ketie'lption In                                                                             - Distribution mains
villages 5-7         - Service reservoir;  - Service reser-                                    to reservoirs In
voirs, vtillages                               village 3 In Teng-
- Booster station         4-5; 6-7;                                       garoh and villages
for Center C;                                                           1-1 and 2 tn Teng-
- Reticulation. vil-                              garob Timur
- BalancIng rcser-        lages 2-3; 4-S;
voirq in Center C       6-7                                          - Reservoirs, vil-
and Vtilage Town;                                                       lage 3 in Teng-
gAroh and 1-3-2
- Reticulatlon Cen-                                                       Tenggaroh Timur
ter C and Village
Town                                                                 - Reticulation in
vtllage 3 TenggS-
ruh And viLlages
1-3 .ni 7 Teg>X-
ruh TIear.



MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Water Supply Component - Technical Parameters
Lepar Hilir    Lepar Utara        Bukit Sagu      Tersang (Koyan)    Tenggaroh          Nitar
(Pahang)        (Pahang)          (Pahang)           (Pahang)          (Johor)        (.'ohor)
Water source          Sg, Lepar               Sg. Lepar          Sg. Kuantan    Sg. Jelai             Sg. Sedili      Sg. Lenggor
Sg. Tekam
Dry weather flow      1:25 years              1:25 years         1:50 years      1:25 years           1:25 years      1:25 years
Mld    254.6            14.8 & 17.5       181.8           222.8                60.2            60.2
Intake                Type   River Bank       River Bank         River Bank      River Bank          River Bank       River Bank
Size   2x demand       2x demand          2x demand       2x demand            2x demand       2x demand
Raw water             Type   Submersible    Submersible          Submersible    Submersible           Submersible    Vertical
pump                  Size   2x demand        2x demand          2x demand       2x demand            2x demand       2x demand   w
Raw water main        mm      375             300                300             300                  375             250
Length        kn     0.65             0.3               1.3             0.4                  0.3             0.4
Treatment             Mld    6.4 /a           4.1/b & 3.2/b    5.5 /a            3.2 /b               7.7 /a          2.3 /b
Staff houses          no.    9                14                 7               7                    11              7
Access roads          km      1.5             6.5                5.2             0.4                  2.0             0.4
Power supply                  Generator       Generator          Generator       Generator            Generator       Generator
Reservoirs total      Ml      5.7             9.6                6.4             3.6                  10.9            2.3
Of which remains
to be constructed  MI       3.2             4.4               5.9              -                   3.2
Distribution mains
total               km      30.0            37.4              26.3             30.7                48.0             9.0
Of which remains
to be constructed  km       8.6             37.4              26.3             -                   18.0             -
/a  Operational for 18 hours/day
WS  Operational for 16 hours/day.



MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURAL PROJECT
Water Supply Component - Population and Water Demand by Complex
Lepar Hllir   Lepar Utara   Bukit Sagu   Tersang (Koyan)   Tenggaroh    Nltar
(Pahang)       (Pahang)       (Pahang)        (Pahang)         (Johor)    (Johor)
Population (no.)                  30,875         32,225         24,140          14,630          35,125       9,500
Water demand ('000 1/day)
Residential                      5,614          5,873          4,391           2,659           6,387       1,727
Institutional                      546          1,559            882             532            1,277        345
Total Demand                  6,160          7,432          5,273           3,191           7,664       2,072
I>
WS



- 35 -                           ANNEX 6.4
MALAYSIA
LEND SETTLENENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Water Supply Component - O&M Equipment and Vehicles
Johor   Pahang   Total   Unit cost   Total cost
--  -- (units) --   -   --- (M$'000)
Four-wheel drive vehicles          2        4        6        25            150
1.5-ton flat-bottom trucks         2        4        6        25            150
Fuel tankers                       1        1        2        70            140
Backhoes                           1        1        2        75            150
Total                                                                  590



- 36 -                                ANNEX 7.1
MLAYSIA
LAND SETTLEIENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
PROJECT COST StMMARY
(Ms '000)                  (USS '000)                   X Total
7 Foreign   Base
Local   Fareign   Total     Local  Foreign   Total   Exchane    Costs
A. ROAMS
1. CONSTRUCTION                  61,298.8 64i043.3 125,342.1  24,519.5 25,617.3 50,136.9       51      67
2. ENGINEERING AND SUPERISION     6,427.7  1,606.9  9W034.7  2,571.1   642.8 3,213.            20       4
3. TRAINING                         M.7  1,434.5  1I806.2    149.5   573.8   723.3             79       1
Sub-Total ROAS                      69,100.2  679084.8 135,185.0 27,240.1 26,833.9 54,074.0       50      72
R. VATER SUPPLY
1. I ATER VORMS                  20,438.3 24,536.1  44,974.4  9,175.3 9,914.5 17,999.9         55      24
2. ENGINEERING AD SM RISION       3p598.0    8"9.5  49497.4  1,439.2   359.8 1799.0            20       2
3. VEHICLES NM EDUZPIENT            120.3    470.2    590.5      48.1   199.1   236.2          90       0
4. TRAINING                         662.0  1,603.9  2,265.9    264.8   641.6   906.4           71       1
Sub-Total MATER SUPPLY              24,818.6 27,509.7 52,328.3  9,927.4 11,003.9 209931.3         53      28
Total BASELINE COSTS                  92,918.8 94,594.5 1874513.3 37P167.5 37,937.8 75,005.3        50     100
Physical Contingencies             12351.6 12,578.8 24r930.4  4,940.6 5,031.5 9,972.2            50      13
Price Contingencies                13,129.8 17,O09.8 30i939.6  5,251.9 7,123.9 12,375.98         58      16
Total PROJECT COSTS                  118,400.1 124,983.1 243,393.3 474360.0 49N993.3 97,353.3       51     130
November 11 1995 10:25



- 37 -
ANNEX 7.2
KMA*
LAND sEflWWWf nrmiK pw
Sow cIuS COST sWuAm
(a 10001                  (11  '000D)                    Tsal
-        ~        ~~~~ TFordffn  bu
Local   Forvii  Totl       Lowal  Fohio   Total   Exdurb_    Costs
I. IKfTf cum
A. CIIL VMUSIC
1. VILI   ROADS                               33M195  34W91.7 67,877.2 13,278.2 13v972.7 2,1S0.9       51       36
2. ACCESS MM                                  21,956.0 22.834.5 44,90.4  9,742.4 9r133*8 17i376.2        51      24
3. RIUDES                                      6,247.4  6,527.1 12,774.5  249.0 2,610.8 5,109.8          51       7
4. 1E11t SEPLY                                15.162.9  9.394.2 24,557.1  6v065.1  3,757.7 9,822.8       3       13
5. T3IN*S   FAmITIES                             372.6    239.1    611.7    149.0    95.6   244.7        39       0
Si*-Total CIVIL tUNXS                           76,934.2 73,676.6 150,510.3 30,733.7 29,470.# 60,204.3     49       so
3. EJPIEJITv VENICLES I MTERIALS
1. VATER SUPPLY PKM                            5,275.4  15M141.? 20,417.4  2,110.2 6,056.8 3,16.e9      74       11
2. IEJIZLES NO EUUIPENT                          120.3   470,2    590.5     48.1   169.1   236.2         00       0
3. TRAINI  E_IPNT                                 40.3    159.4    1".7      16.1    63.8    79.9        OD       0
SW-Total EDIPNENTi VENICLES A MIERIALS           5,436.1  15,771.5 21,207.6  2,174.4 6308.  B1493.0        74       11
C. TEOUICAL SERVOEB
i. E IEEMII ANO SEPISII /a
ROADS                                      6b427.7  1,606.9  89034.7  2,571      642.8 3,213.9        20       4
- TER SUPPLY                                34599.0   9m.5  4,497.4  1,439.2   359.8 1,79.0           20       2
Seh-Total EINEMERIN AND SUPERVISIO  /a        104025.7  2,506.4 12,532.1  4,010.3 1,002.6 5,012.8        20       7
2. TRAINEE ( TEDRICAL ASSISTANCE )
MS                                            373.7  1,434.5  1906.2    14.5   573.8   723.3         79       1
VATER SUPPLY                                  249.1  1.205.4  1,454.5     99.6   482.2   51.9         03       1
Sui-Total TRA1*1S ( IECDIICAL ASSISTANCE )      622.8  2V639.9  3,262.7    2491  1,056.0 1,305.1        81        2
Sub-Total TECHNICAL SERVICES                    IO,648.5  S,146.3 15794.8  4,259.4 2,053.5 69317.9         33       S
Total BASELDE COSTS                                 92913.8  94,594.5 187.S13.3 37,167.5 37,937.3 75,005.3     50     100
PhsicalCon ikm ncies                             12.351.6 12,578.8 24,30.4  4,940.6 5,031.5 9,9m.2          50       13
Price Continmncies                                13,129.8 17,809.3 30,939.6  5,251.9 7.123.9 12,375.9      58      16
Total PR0LET COSTS                                 119,400.1 124,993.1 24,383.3 47,360.0 49,593.3 97,353.3     51     130
/a About 55= of engineerinm and supervision costs are rarconsultant services.The remaining 45Z are PP eXwerditures.
Nowaber 11, 19S 10:25



- 38 -                               ANNE 7.3
AAYSIA
LAW SETTLEINT INFRAsTRUTR PRiLEcT
Project Coponmnts by Year
INSM '000)
ase Costs                             Total
1996    1987    199    1909    190    199           NS    (US$S 0001
e== =::=:  =-  -  :c=:= -::s= ::=nno msm..2o
A. ROADS
1. CONSTRUCTION                 69829.3 21,110.4 35,335.2 29,630.7 26,561.3 5P976#3 125,342.1  50,136.9
2. ENGIFEERtE ND SUPERVISION      396.5 1259.3 2W204.6 24006.8 1v776.9   390.5   9,034.7   3,213.9
3. TRAINING                       301.4   602.7   602.7   301.4         -        -   1.800.2     723.3
Sub-Total ROADS                    74526.2 22972.4 3MU1425 31,933.9 2893382 6p266.8 135W195.0  54f07440
D. MATER SIPPLY
1. iHTER OR O S                 1616.4 15,507.0 16443.9 7491.6 3FV79.O   846.5  44974.4  179o9.
2. ENI?EERINIG AM  SFERYISION     161.6  13550.7 1P644.4   748.2   307.9    94.7   4497.4   1999.0
3.  EIMES MND EIUIPNENT               -        -   590.5       -        -       -      590.5     236.2
4. TRAINING                           -   669.3 1 295.2   301.4         -       -   2,265.9      906.4
Sub-Total HAT    PLY               1779.0 17,7270 19974.0  B531.2 34386.9   931.2  52,32.3  20,m.3
Total R4ELVE COSTS                  9302 40699.4 59U116.5 40470.1 31v725.2 7u1990 197,513.3  75tO5*3
Plhsical Continsmeies               m.5 4,347.3 6,994.5  69232.2 5,255.3 1129.5  24,930.4  9M97292
Price Contingencies                 318.3 3F76.5 7M3OW.3 B9349.5 892.0  2799.0  30939.6  12,375.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                 t06O4.0 48,623.2 72,406.3 554051.8 45,572.5 11,125.4 243,383.3  974353.3
=8 -e= == =: == =
Taxes                             1,044.0 4,953.2  74056.1 5J253.3 44265.6 1,042.6  23,614.7   9944599
Foreign Exchmnse                  5,666.5 25,666.6 37,414.9 289020.6 22,634.7 5,579.9 124,993.1  49,993.3
Nayember Il, 1Y85 10:25



3 39 -                                 ANNEX 7.4
we wwr nn  cr
Fimamiri Plan by PvoJwt CmwAn.,t
(W '000)
HLM    ; 3shiE'r              Tot
L-eu (Exl.  MIU. I
Ami   2    burt  Z  Xun    I   For. Exdm.    Tm)                 Ta
_ - - - - - m_-_
F. m
1. ChTRETIU                   31,303.7 47.0 35,299.9 3.0 66,603.S   48.4   34761.6    2P116  6460.4
2., E03EERIU AM  JUIIW         2u29691 S5L0  1U7S.6 450  4,174.6  4.3        J.3      3294.4         -
3. 1MI3  6                       81.X109.0        -   - l33.9e  0.9          703.2       177.7        -
Sb-Ttu                           RM 34 A   .1 37u17B.5 51.S Sl1t 491 7396   36,34.1      23,6.7  69660.4
:. am WFLT
1. am1  lS                    13,137.9  9.7  8.359 40.3 220t .7 22.7   12J18.2         7,17.l   2,79.7
2.   WiMII ME IhU1             1,241.0  5.0  1.015.4 4.0  226A.4  2.3        470.0     1.x.4          -
3.. WaEB U                       m EWI   222 7L0  77.4 250    309.7  0.3    247.6         31.1     31.0
4. TM1S                          onto0  2.6    183.4 17.4  1,04.4  1.1       745.3       264.2     44.3
Srb -Tol MIR 3                   135492.1 60.4 101429.1 39.6 25.4.2 26.4   13,632         9W2.5  2t735.5
Tatal DiftViI                      WALO 51.4 4734.5 48.6 97#353  100.0    4993             37,914.2  9,44.9
bvmIbor II 19   10:25



ANNEX 7.5
- 40 -
LMU SETTLBINT INFRSIRUCTf   CT
rinanird Pln bw Sumarm Account
(USI million)
ILDDM    ROVEMIEIT    Total              Local
Auimt  Z   Amo.mt I   Amuut,t  Z   Euch  Tom)  Tamni
--         -m   -- mr uzr -S uui
1. II WST  COSTS
A. CIVIL IORIS
1. VILLAGE ROADS                            17.8 47.0  20.1 53.0   37.9 38.9  19.9  14.2        3.8
2. ACCESS ROADS                             10.4 47.0  11.7 53.0  22.2 2'.S  11.5   8.5         2.2
3. BRIES                                     3.1 47.0   3.5 53.0    6.6  6.7   3.4   2.5        0.7
4. VATER SUPPLY                              5.7 47.0   6.4 53.0   12.0 12.4   4.7   6.1        1.2
5. TRINING FACIUTIE                          0.1 47.0   0.2 53.0    0.3  0.3   0.1   0.1        0.O
Sub-Total CIVIL OMONK                          37.1 47.0  41.9 53.0  79.9 911  39.6  31.5        7.9
B. E0IPIET VEICLBES I ATERIALS
1. MATER SIMPLY FM                           7.5 75.0   2.5 25.0   10.0 10.3  7.5   1.1         1.5
2. IaEHICLES AN EGUIFINI                     0.2 75.0   0.1 25.0   0.3  0.3   0.2   0.0         0.0
3. TRAINING ElMPW                            0.1 75.0   0.0 25.0    0.1  0.1   0.1   0.0        0.0
Sub-Total E0UIPN    VEHCLES I HATERIALS         7.8 75.0   2.6 25.0   10.5 10.7   7.8   1.1       1.6
C. TEMUICAL SERVICES
1. ENIERING MD StIESWIU  /a
ROADS                                      2.3  5S.0   1.9 45.0   4.2  4.3   0.9   3.3         -
MATER SIPPLY                               1.2  55.0   1.0 45.0    2.3  2.3   0.5   1.8        -
Sub-Total ENGIIEERINS AM SUPISION /a         3.5 55.0   2.9 45.0    6.4  6.6   1.4   5.1         -
2. TRAININ ( TECIMICL SSISTANCE )
ROA                                        0.9 100.0    -   -    0.9  0.9   0.7   0.2          -
MATER SUtPLY                               0.7 100.0    -   -    0.7  0.7   0.5   0.1          -
Sub-Total TRAIING   TEDOICAL ASSISTANCE      i 1.S 100.0   -   -         1.5  1.6   1.2   0.3    -
Sub-Total TEDUICAL SERVICES                     5.1 63.7   2.9 36.3    8.0  8.2   2.6   5.4         -
Total INUESTNT COSTS                              50.0 51.4  47.3 48.6   97.4 100.0  50.0   37.9     9.4
Total Disbursewt                                  50.0 51.4   47.3 48.6   97.4 100.0  50.0   37.9     9.4
/a About 5r ot engineering and suervision costs are fommsultant services.The reaining 452 are PD aependitures.
November 11 1995 1O:25



ANNEX 8
- 41 -
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Schedule of Loan Disbursements
Disbursement pro-
Bank                                   Disbursements            file, Malaysia
fiscal                            at the end of the period         agriculture
year     Period ending           US$ million          %           projects (Z)
87      December 31, 1986            0.5             1.0               2
June 30, 1987               1.1             2.2               5
88      December 31, 1987            2.2            4.4                9
June 30, 1988               7.6            15.2              14
89      December 31, 1988           13.0            26.0              21
June 30, 1989              20.6            41.2              29
90      December 31, 1989           28.2           56.4               38
June 30, 1990              33.0            66.0              47
91      December 31, 1990           39.2           78.4               56
June 30, 1991              43.5            87.0              65
92      December 31, 1991           47.8           95.6               73
June 30, 1992              48.9            97.8              79
93      December 31, 1992           50.0           100.0              85
Note:  Loan closing date:  June 30, 1993.



MALAYSIA
LAND SETrLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Typical Development Schedule of a Settement Vilage
ACIMTIES                   YEWAR.O          WARI               W | R2         VWYR3            VEE4      F
QUARTER  1   2   3J   4   1  2 1 3   4 |1 21 3   4   1   2   3   4   1   21              4
IJUNGLE FELUNG/BLIRNING          _        l _
VILLAGE SITE SELECTKOI                                                                                      I
10' CNOIUR PLAN
VILLAGE LAYOUT PLAN
ACCESS ROAD                                            l'hosUk'III
VILLAGE ROAD                                                        Wm             I I111_1
RESERVOIR & FALLING MAJNS                                LN11111      llS           _
RETICUAIIONJ MAIN                                                         :_'               mE
TEMPORARY STAFF QUARTERS                              m m
PERMANENT STAFF QUAIPE   & OFFKE
SETTLER HOUSE                                                                         1
SCHOOL                                                                  L  L  L    11111m
MOSQUE
COMMUNITY HALL
RAYING FIELD
SIALL                                                                                       g
!__Mh'R irwrstlgofotnjSurwey/Desigii/Proiect BtE1w
111111111 oendeing
Conrtniction
' Water trealment pionts are usuaily constructod atef settler enlry.                                   World 8"-275a0                              S



ANNEX 9.2
-43 -
MALAYSIA
LAND SEMlLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECr
Water Supply Works lmplementatlon Schedule
YEAR     1968          496           1967          19U           1969          1990
QUARIER  2 34  123 4  f 2 34  4 2 3 4   2 3 A   23 4
LE3AR NILIR
SUPULES
rownch   Poe Lo                             .1.
LEPAR UAEAR
MM a Specbl                              Ill ... j.l  61M
Plont& Equtjxrt                                  i  rni  W~ 
RWioku&PIs Lo11n                                       lul7 *_  U_   *U UM   *U .             UX  U
CMLVU6JOR                                              Xl.; KSS*   M;S 
j nfIke& Trcen PkT                                    ____               ____t    
MElT SAGU
PIO&Sa                                   I rn___
PA" & Eqa0y*M                 l.ll      -  U  -  -  U  M
CMUAV6O
lrtdl &Tmatrm t                              ll lRant   *  _  _  _ 
|osu                                                UP& P t       u  *L *   m  * Vm        mu L
TEMII41OYAN
Supply ofPkot& EQUIpment                 oil *II U  U    LIu 
P~m&S>sdaW                             ii  ll      U        M      E 
of. I& TEqufipm! ent  CIIII  UKW-aft                               U 
CMLVOM
Rsmrih& Mpe Laying                                      rmun   UUUUUU*U m                          '
SuppIyafPknt&EquIplaT                  unii-m  *mm*IL 
gguuEg*E3 Pkumr,wit&Am=
-        ~~ariiuO1len                                                                        VA-ia Bork-27579



ANEX 9.3
- 44 -
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
State Of Pahang WaterSupply Tralning Program
Implementation Schedule
VWA       1967           19111           1969            199
IUARh.R  1  2  3  4       2  3 1  41    2  3  4   I  2        4
Reuifent i Locl S  _T_ _
ReCRuitment of Advisor
Review of PASO Strutur
TRmk  d Tidn
eutn d ToWhing P_gram
Watng PteKwem S_takdo re-view
Ogar1aan & Manigernent RevMiw
Demon & Conton dTofdring              m   m __    __
Opeatlatd Trobti Cenr by pD|
Howdxf fdnmgCnrtothe State_L
Wsld knlc-27597



-45 -                               ANNEX 10
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Oil Palm and Rubber Production Yields
(Tons/ha)
Year after planting                         ffb /a                          Rubber
1                                     -                              _
2
3
4                                     1
5                                     6
6                                    13                             0.3
7                                    18                             0.7
8                                    18                             0.9
9                                    21                             1.2
10                                    22                             i.3
11                                    22                             1.4
12                                    22                             1.5
13                                    21                             1.7
14                                    21                             1.7
15                                    20                             1.7
16                                    20                             1.7
17                                    20                             1.8
18                                    20                             1.7
19                                    20                             1.6
20                                    19                             1.5
21                                    19                             1.4
22                                    18                             1.4
23                                    17                             1.4
24                                    16                             1.4
25                                    15                             1.4
26                                    10                             1.4
/a ffb: fresh fruit bunches of oil palm.



- 46 -
AII   11
Pape ± of :t
WtAlli
iA  SEruEuuLt IlWUTECTIE PUE
ECINIC  FATE OFiKM C1LiEIS
in thomamd Rol
1915     29t      197       190      19tm     1990      399       1992     I        it94      19t      20P
UIIT ISO-MEN  CBNLEi
-Ieft stre
Vale  mliii                         1,90    5,515   10,125   13,U03   11,94   23,540   24,192   27,01   31,5310   34,42   40,0497   27,519
Total Vale of production            1,190    5,515   10,125   13,303   1,b94   30,540   24,192   27,011  31,510   34.42   40,091   27,5319
Cot strie
gracultural Insntmts il             8,113    7,1H      9,543   10,451   10,012   33,313   11,774   11,710   22,321   1,453   22,020   11,610
AMmislstrata, hi                    1,313    1,147    1,147    1,457    1,193   12.5C        1,407    1,441    3.37      1,,37    12,44     1,510
lnfrastretres
Settler buin   cJ                           1,475    2,530      a         3l3      736    1,171       743      923    2,05
b                                           t i  ,14    3,453    4,290    1,20t    1,067    1,200
atais                               P41    3,944    2,043       3031      311      31
0 i    Ud                                                        2C       14n      210       741      759       T        779      779       779
rotw  cost                         10,135   14,050   I0,t   17,431   14,124    17,M        1t,33   14,721   15,417   14,660   33,05   1a3,W?
Ret Stream                            11,24521  19,M5    0,5711  (3,621)   2,C53    2,717    7,1159   13,15   11,043   19,002   2U.262   13,112
Ecnmc bRt  of Retsrn.  262
M01 MIT CoILI
lmlfit strem
Value of Wi                         1,10    3,357    1,U44   10,531   14,642   10,315   21,174   25,23   27,1e2   29,403   29,921   19,03S
Pal3  of rubbr                                           II       49        7n3    1,162    1,91    2,9m9   3S,10        4,12    7.073    1,952
total Vale of prottes               3,100    3,357      ,025   11,020   15,415   19,977   23,112   20,242   31,490   34,245   37,794   25,910
Cot stroam
Agricslteral tnvntmts si            7,220    9,721    9,65    10,445   30,377   11,00    30,9n2   31,919   11,291   11,422   12,310   12,3I0
Iiedllstratiu hI                      920    3,193    1,3.1    1,457    1,122    1,514    1,371    1,447    1,517    2,441    1,447    1,510
irantractvmn
Settler bung e                               350    2,140    2,312    1,137    1,13         707       755      451       320
lndls                             1,872    4,690    1,0O      2,139    2,199    1,114
atletrs                                        90      270      50    1,17C    1,620    1,90         ,0210   1,210       540
IE N di                                                 31      111       20       235      273       300      3H0       300      U5       U
Total cot                           9,02   13,255   19,323   17,007   11,713   10,721   15,173   15,041   14,124   14,011   14,142   14,713
fit Stream                            15,7201 (112,091  112,490   (5,917)  111.291   3,251    0,439   13,203   l.,761   20,247   23,152   11,275
Ecoenomc  ats of Rturn.  2tl
LEMS MDIII 0153
heelit stres
Yale of mi                                      117      iN    1,671    2,114    3,52    4,103    5,35         5,412    5,074    5,A19     3,72
Vale of rvtber                                                              212      so        92n    1,234    1,559    1,770    2,241    1,901
Total Vale of prodection                        117      60    1,191    2,97       4,127    5,529    *,559      ,971    7,444    7,539    5,1;3
Cnt strem
Arlcult.ral letants  j              1,725    2,134    3,908    1,017    2,010    1,972    2,113    2,333    2,41    2,523    2,540    2,5U4
Allinstratim *t                       229 2t             229      229       229      300      2"        229      229       229      22       229
tnfrutrucmtrni
Settler basFn   cl                                                515        i7      337
Buads                                         913    2,433    2.935      527       53
Mitet                                                                      90      270      30        450      300      270
0 t11 dl                                                         IS        40       49        9        70       70        70      IID       37
Total COt                           1,954    3,971    4,5W    5,1E       3,903    3,521    2,031    3,022    3,120    3,092    2,914    2,%4
ht Stra                               (1,954)  13,091  13,9621  13,0903    It71         tOt   2,91    3,507    3,0A         4,32    4,575    2,219
Ecuomic Eate of Itatna  in
a/ leicen  cuts fir lan  clariq  It plating. pla nti  materials, cmr crop, fwa  rods, fertilier & cbeiccls, fteo Ia  and other cots.
it lndie    salon,  hr recrrot  onditres,  eiclen as  gwum t mats.
cl InKis site prpwratlUtn a bot nets.
it Includes uinteace costs for reads ad nrternats.



- 47 -
Page 2 of 2
HILAYSIA
LA  METTEIIT IMI MT9IEE   PIOJECT
EEUIIUIC UTE lF KIM IIIII Ll9I
[in thound All
195      I9U     1917    199       199      290      191      I92      1993      94      19       2009
1M  SEUATAI NCIhLEI
Iknefit strm
Valn of FF1 m40                                                         979   2,5B4    5,518    9,315   13,201   15,515   17,929   14,423
Valu  of rbbr                                                           757    1,9      3,101    6,114    9,622   10,560   15,320   12,99
Total Valu  of prOdKtin                                        140    1,636   4,569    9,194   15,551   21,92   21,125   33,249   27,422
Cost strm
Agricultural Invntmnts a/         3,362    4,77    9,95    8,400    8,026   8,310    0,577    9,140   10,072   10,811   11,774   11,774
Aduinistratimn bh                   290      706      97       952      918      918      m        99     1,010    1,129      996      99*
I[frarstrcture:
Settler hbsing cJ                                            828    1,766    1,158   2,122      "9        332
hads                                                606    1,927    2,940    1,724      91
latrhks                                                               ISO      720    1,260    1,620    1,620    1,260
DI1 *    d/                                                            19       77      110      203      225      225      193      13
Total Cost                        3,642    5,315   10,590   12,107   13,849  13,107   14,021   12,947   13,309   13,425   13,455   13,455
llt Strm                             13,1421  15,M5) 110,5001 (11,97) (12,2131  19,038)  (4,027)   2,604    8,519   12,700   19,794   13,917
Economic Rate of etu'r: 15!
Mil6 Tim  ClULEI
huefit strm
Valu  of FFm                         34      231      717    1,668   3,384   5,493    7,905    9,790   12,124  13,643   15,079   11,311
Valu  of r'br                                         231      II4    1,%0    4,113    1,417   8,674   10,994  13,149  I,79   11,20
Total Value of prodution             34      231      m9    2,517    5,304    9,101   14,2    19,454  23,120  26,791   33,174   27,560
Cost stre
AgricLItural lnvetats el          7,41    5,441   6,m7    9,203    7,680   9,029    9,437    9,977   10,921   11,5t1  12,70   12,703
Administration bh                   732      962    1,191    1,181    1,218    1,217    1,211    ;,2      1,289   1,231    1.233    1,217
Infrstructwr.
Settler hasing ce                                   941    1,631    1,392   1,651    1,029       90       468      292
Rads                                     1,703   4,938   6,165    1,730    1,592    1,730
at eeruoks                                                   130      540        0    1,710    1,900   1,890    1,090
OlN d/                                                        12       52      108      141      172      205      205      79       79
Total Cost                        8,218    9,111   13,761   17,374   12,652  14,576   15,315   14,045   14,M    14,356  14,791   14,710
let Strm                             08,194J  (7,30) (12,768) .14,957)  (7,3491  14,970)  (1,0931   4,40     8,348   12,435   19,093   12,150
Economic Rate of Retwrns 14T
a/ Include  costs for land clearing & planting, plating materials, cover crop, fare roads, fwrtilizer & cheicais, frm  lbr ad other costs.
Ui Includes slarin, otbr rKurrent eupditurn, veidn   nd qpipmt costs.
cl lnludes site preparatin and house cots.
di leludns mintuance costs for roads ad atwrks.



- 48 -                           ANNEX 12
HALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1.  FELDA, Infrastructure Project Preparation Report, May 1984,
Bina Runding SDN. BHD. August 1984.
2.   FELDA Settlements Study to Assess Actual per Capita Water Consumption,
Final Report, August 1984.
3.   Bekalan Air LRTP Tenggaroh Negeri Johor, (Water Supply for Tenggaroh
Settlement Project). Final Report Jurutera Perunding Bersama, SDN,
BHD. October 1984.
4.   FELDA Settlements Study of River Bank Infiltration Wells, Bina Runding
SDN, BHD. August 1984.
5. Bekalan Air LKTD NITAR Negeri Johor and Bekalan Air LKTP Tersang/Sg.
Koyan, Negeri Pahang. (Water Supply for Nitar and Tersang Settlement
Complexes). Final Report Halaluddin, Ho & Yu, SDN, BDD. October 1984.
6.  Bukit Sagu Water Supply Investigation Report Angkasa-GHD Engineers SDN
BHD. April 1985.
7.   Malaysia Land Settlement Project-Pahang State Training Component
Preparation, A.M. Richards (British Water International Ltd.) May 1985.
8.   Malaysia, Land Settlement Infrastructure Project - Roads Component,
Working Paper H. Snel (Consultant). June 1985.
9.   Malaysia, Land Settlement Infrastructure Project Economic Analysis -
Computer Printouts. June 1985.
10. ERR and ADT calculations.



41!'S t~~~~         .             ii~~~WIM~ALAY.  IA           T
4 LAND SETTEET  NFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
e     THAILAND                         I-,                             JbiFMUto4Im
EOAH  I                           /                                          IM
¶0 OW  TEENGGANUWAU
ARINC.~~~~~~
OAFRA               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
C   .~~~~~~uai~~~~~~'L~~~~~ '   .'  if~~~,  HI    
CCfAA(ttJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                            0S    
U                                       *&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EA



