Docunet of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
g2cV 26"A'--4Wt
Rport No. P-4130-M
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$50.0 MILLION
TO MALAYSIA
FOR THE
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
November 19, 1985
TIs domam   ha a aQria  dIinu   d my be 1ad by rdpluuts eo  In the pifumm  of
tdher aScia dS   t. lub     my ea ohwewie be diwsmi wishes Wol Bak ahedihul.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Ringgit (M$)
Average 1984             October 1985
US$1.00   =   M$2.42       US$1 = K$2.50
M$1.00    =   US$0.41       M$1  = US$0.40
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.62 mile (m)
1 hectare (ha)             =   2.47 acre (ac)
1 square kilometer (sq km) =   0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 liter (1)                =   0.26 U.S. gallons (gal) = 0.22 Imp gallons
1 kilogram (kg)            =   2.2 pound (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)             1,000 kg = 2,200 lb
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DR           -   Federal Directorate of Roads
DWS          -   Federal Directorate of Water Supply
FELDA        -   Federal Land Development Authority
ffb          -   Fresh Fruit Bunch, of oil palm
FPWD         -   Federal Public Works Department
FRU          -   FPWD Regional Units for FELDA Works
NAP          -   National Agricultural Policy
O&M          -   Operation and Maintenance
PTU          -   Pahang (Water Supply) Training Unit
PWD          -   Public Works Department
PWSD         -   Pahang's Water Supply Division
SPWD         -   State Public Works Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
LOan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Malaysia
Beneficiaries:  Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) and Public Works
Department (PWD).
Loan Amount:    US$50.0 million
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years including 3 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description: The proposed project would continue to support the
Government's land development and settlement program. It
would assist FELDA and PWD in the provision of roads and water
supply works for existing land settlement schemes, and
strengthen PUD's construction a-d waterworks operation and
maintenance practices. The project would complement agricul-
tural development of some 105,000 ha and thereby raise living
standards and incomes of some 26,000 settler families in
Peninsular Malaysia. It would include: (a) construction of
about 840 km of access and village roads and 18 bridges;
(b) construction of seven water treatment plants, about 90 km
of distribution mains, and reservoirs and reticulation svstems
for 44 settlement villages; and (c) development and implemen-
tation of a training program and technical assistance for
improvement of waterworks operation and maintenance in the
State of Pahang. There are no major risks associated with the
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reapients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                    Local          Foreign    Total
(US$ million)    -
Road and bridge construction   24.5            25.6        50.1
Waterworks and equipment         8.3           10.0        18.3
Engineering and supervision      4.0            1.0         5.0
Training                         0.4            1.2         1.6
Base Cost                   37.2           37.8        75.0
Physical contingencies           4.9            5.1        10.0
Price contingencies              5.3            7.1        12.4
Total Project Cost /a       47.4           50.0        97.4
Financing PLan:
IBRD                            -              50.0        50.0
Government                      47.4           -           47.4
Total                       47.4           50.0        97.4
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY         1987  1988  1989  1990   1991   1992   1993
(US$ million)
Annual             1.1   6.5  13.0  13.1    9.8    5.4    1.1
Cumulative             1.1   7.6  20.6  33.7   43.5   48.9   50.0
Rate of Return:  14Z to 26Z, based on selected settlement complexes.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5804, dated November 15, 1985.
Map: IBRD 18997
la   Including taxes and duties of US$9.5 million.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR THE LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Malaysia., for the equivalent of US$50.0 million, to help finance the Land
Settlement Infrastructure ProjecE. The loan would have a term of 15 vears,
including 3 years of grace, at the standard variabLe interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia: Development Strategies and
their Financing" (No. 5560-MA), is dated September 3, 1985. This section
reflects also the findings of a Bank mission which visited Malaysia in July
1985 for a general economic review with particular emphasis on agriculture and
industry.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,990 in 1984 is among
the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita GDP growth has
averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.a. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors, including the country's wealth in natural resources, especi-
ally ample reserves of cultivable land and oil and gas; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; favorable developments in the world economy; good economic
and financial management; and, not least, stable social and political institu-
tions. Three specific elements have been important: first, substantial
attention and priority has been given to agriculture, resulting in high pro-
ductivity gains in the sector whirh have cushioned against occasional steep
price declines; second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12% per
annum, in the last two decades, following first an import substituting
pattern, but later increasingly oriented towards exports; third, in a very
open economy, with exports and imports recently averaging more than 50% of
GDP, exports have diversified from an initial large dependence on rubber, tin
and timber to include palm oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55% of the
population indigenous Malays, 35Z Chinese, and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income between
ethnic communities, and has also been struggling with a serious poverty
problem. The incidence of poverty covers all ethnic groups, but remains
1/  This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Industrial Training Project (Report No. P-4065-MA, dated May
7, 1985), approved by the Board of Executive Directors on July 2, 1985.



- 2 -
disproportionately high among Malays; their average per capita incomes were
only half those of the Chinese community. In 1971, the Government declared a
New Economic Policy (NEP), and accorded the highest priority to eradicating
poverty and reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment, and owner-
ship of assets. Specific quantitative targets, to be achieved by 1990, were
established for these objectives. Particular emphasis has been given to
accelerated growth of the modern sector (i.e., cutside traditional agricul-
ture), as about I million jobs (or 90X of all new employment) need to be
created in the non-agriculturaL sectors during l985-90.
5.        The Malaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes. Industry has replaced agriculture as the major contributor to GDP
and exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the cut-
ting edge of industrial growth. In particular, there has been a remarkable
and dominating increase in exports of electronic goods over the last 15
years. Export diversification (particularly through palm oil, petroleum, and
more recently liquid natural gas) has proved important, as some of Malaysia's
traditional major foreign exchange earners show signs of flagging vitality.
Tin production has steadily declined in the face of weak prices, the
exhaustion of many mines, and increasing costs of extraction. Although timber
production has recently been buoyant, exploitation of the resource has led to
detrimental environmental consequences, and the Government has recently
implemented measures for restricting logging in Peninsular Malaysia. Finally,
rubber production has been fluctuating across a declining trend for several
years. While factors specific to the cultivation of rubber have been at work,
an important reason has been the migration of the young and educated from the
farms to the towns. This has fostered a major structural change in the
Malaysian economy, as it appears that the agricultural labor force may now be
peaking in absolute numbers. In turn, this suggests rather different strate-
gies to be followed in the agricultural sector in years to come, both to
maintain agricultural production as well as to tackle the large extant problem
of rural poverty. In recognition of this, the Government has recently
published a policy document to guide future agricultural development which
takes into account the emerging trends in the sector.
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional diffi-
culty. This has been particularly true in the most recent international com-
modity price cycle. Between 1977 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber,
timber, and petroleum increased rapidly, and export receipts nearly doubled.
The terms of trade improved by about 25% in the same period, and real national
income grew by more than 11% p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually
all of Malaysia's export commodities began to fall and, over the next two
years, the terms of trade declined by more than 8%, representing a loss of
national income of about 5%. Anticipating, in 1980, a short international
recession, the Government introduced a countercyclical fiscal policy, compris-
ing large expenditure increases and tax cuts, in an attempt to maintain domes-
tic income levels. This combination of falling commodity prices and an expan-
sionary fiscal stance led, in 1981 and 1982, to very large fiscal and balance
of payments deficits; thus, in 1981-82, the current account deficit on the
balance of payments averaged 11% of GNP, while the overall public sector
deficit averaged 18% of GNP. Overall, GDP growth averaged 6% p.a., and infla-
tion initially accelerated before falling to 6% in 1982.



- 3-
7.        To finance these Large deficits, the Government had to borrow
heavily. Domestic borrowings were largely non-inflationary, from the
Employees Provident Fund, the national oil company and the commercial banks.
Even so, the ratio of domestic debt to GNP grew from about 37% t_ nearly 48Z
between 1980 and 1982. Increasing proportions of the deficits had to be
financed from abroad, and the level of disbursed pubLic external debt almost
doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16% to 32% of GNP); there was. in
addition, an important shift in the sources of borrowing, away from project
financing towards market borrowings. Because of the Low levels of external
borrowing of the previous decade, this surge in the 1980-82 period has not
given rise to a high burden of debt service. As a proportion of exports, debt
service on private, public and publicly-guaranteed medium and long-term debt
was 11.9% at the end of 1984.
8.        The unsustainability of deficits of the magnitude experienced in
1981 and 1982 was clearly recognized by the Government, and a policy of
expenditure restraint was implemented through 1983-84 and affirmed in the 1985
budget. In the course of 1983-84, development expenditures of the Federal
Government fell by 20%, and the federal deficit was reduced substantia'ly -
from 17.8X of GNP in 1982 to 7.1% in 1984. However, due to a continuing
expansion in expenditures by other parts of the public sector, the overall
public sector deficit did not decrease as sharply as the federal deficit. In
addition, private sector investment expenditures rose by 23Z in real terms,
reflecting largely the impact of higher outlays by quasi-public agen7ies
currently misclassified under the national accounts in this sector.- This
offset to an extent the adjustments being made by the Federal Government. As
a result, the balance of payments current account deficit registered only a
smaLl improvement - declining from 14.4% of GNP in 1982 to 11.7% in 1983. In
1984, the Government exerted greater control over the consolidated public
sector which, combined with continued restrictions on federal government
spending, helped to improve the current account deficit to the level of 5.8%
of GNP.
9.        Assuming a sustained international economic recovery and continued
expenditure restraint by the Government, the fiscal and external deficits of
Malaysia should reach manageable levels over the medium term. With the heavy
borrowing recently undertaken, and with anticipation of future, albeit lower,
external deficits, the debt service ratio will increase later in the decade.
It is expected, however, to stabilize at acceptable levels (between 15Z-20Z of
exports). At the same time, the present and ongoing expenditure retrenchment,
although starting from a high level, has placed the public investment budget
under strain, and is likely to affect future growth prospects. In this
regard, it is becoming increasingly important for the Government to ensure the
efficiency of the public sector investment program. Recognition has also been
given by the Government to the need to tackle some of the economy's structural
difficulties. As noted above, a National Agricultural Policy has been
2/   According to the classification of the Government, major off-budget
agencies like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICOM (the heavy
industry corporation) are not included in the public sector.



- 4 -
announced. A comprehensive review of development strategy is contained in the
Mid-Term Review of the Fourth Malaysia Plan released in April 1984; among the
initiatives already announced is proposed "privatization" of many public
sector activities. Industrial studies (on export and production incentives)
have been undertaken, in conjunction with the Bank, to ensure the continued
contribution of this important sector to the economy. A series of initiatives
to sustain development are being discussed in the context of preparations for
the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1981-85), albeit in more difficult financial circum-
stances than were foreseen before the onset of the recession.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA 3/
10.       The Bank has, to date, made 64 loans to Malaysia, totalling
US$1,665.68 million for prcjects in agriculture, education, population, power,
water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban
transport. As of September 30, 1985, the effective loans to Malaysia held by
the Bank amounted to US$1,289.50 million. A total of 43 loans to Malaysia,
have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IFC
investments.
11.       In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy towards Malaysia has
aimed at assisting the Government to alleviate poverty in the country. The
Government's thrust in this area has been two-fold: first, to maintain a high
overall rate of growth for the economy and thus facilitate and encourage a
labor shift from low to higher wage occupations; second, to raise the produc-
tivity and incomes of farmers directly through a variety of agricultural
projects and programs as most poverty is concentrated in the rural areas. The
Bank has been associated with both aspects of this strategy - by assisting the
Government to overcome impediments to growth (for example, by lending for
vocational education and for power) and also by lending for a long sequence of
agricultural projects. These have indeed enjoyed major success in raising the
incomes of beneficiaries, substantially increasing the foreign exchange earn-
ings of the country, and contributing to a high economy-wide growth.
12.       Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has not
diminished in the wake of the recent economic difficulties. As noted, these
difficulties are in part structural, fostered by very rapid and successful
development, and in part financial, resulting from the recession and internal
countercyclical policies. Tackling these problems, which entail tight fiscal
and foreign exchange constraints likely to persist for some time, has become
the dominant objective of economic management.
13.       In its lending strategy, the Bank intends to continue lending to
agriculture and thus tackle poverty directly. At the same time, recognizing
3/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Industrial Training Project (Report No. P-4065-MA, dated May
7, 1985) approved by the Board of Executive Directors on July 2, 1985.



the changed economic situation and prospects, and responding to a government
request, the Bank is also assisting in sectors where serious structural
problems or institutional deficiencies exist. Thus, the Bank plans to lend to
such sectors as education, transport, power, water supply, and industry, and
thus to make a more diversified as well as substantial contribution to
alleviating Malaysia's balance of payments and fiscal constraints over the
medium term.
14.       Although overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in
Malaysia has been satisfactory, it has recently been seriously affected by the
country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in project dis-
bursements, which dropped from US$111 million in FY82 and US$137 million in
FY83 to US$87 million in FY84 and to $99.9 million in FY85. Disbursement per-
formance, measured in terms of the rates of actual disbursements to cumuLative
undisbursed amounts, was 0.19 in FY82, 0.22 in FY83, 0.14 in FY84, and 0.17 in
FY85 (compared to regional averages of 0.19, 0.20, 0.21 and 0.22,
respectively, in the same years).
15.       Apart from lack of counterpart funding, the major problems causing
disbursement delays in Malaysia have been: delays in project start-up due to
manpower shortages, time-consuming land acquisition procedures, and slow
construction. To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project
implementation reviews with the central and implementing agencies in Kuala
Lumpur. These reviews and the corrective action taken by the agencies subse-
quently are having a positive impact on project implementation and disburse-
ments. Further reviews will be undertaken with the Malaysian authorities when
necessary. It is also proposed to reinforce the implementation reviews with
occasional seminars on disbursements and procurement (a procurement seminar
was arranged in March 1983 and the last disbursement seminar took place in
September 1985, both in Kuala Lumpur) for the benefit of the implementing
agencies.
16.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling US$21.19 mil-
lion. The total investments held by IFC, as of September 30, 1985, amounted
to US$12.50 million (Annex II).
17.       At end-1984, Malaysia's debt service ratio on public and publicly
guaranteed cebt was about 8X. In the same year, debt service on Bank
obligations constituted about 8% of total debt service. With the rapid
increase in market borrowings in the last three years, the proportion of Bank
disbursed debt in total disbursed debt has fallen from about 15% in 1979-80 to
less than 5% at end-1984. Various projections, on a variety of assumptions,
suggest that the Bank share in debt service and total disbursed debt of
Malaysia is likely to remain well below 10% through the rest of the decade.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR - LAND SETTLEMENT
18.       The agriculturaL sector pLays a dominant role in the Malaysian
economy, though its relative importance is declining as the country proceeds
toward industrialization. The sector currently accounts for about 23% of CDP,



-6-
40Z of merchandise exports and 35% of employment. In the 1960s and early
1970s, agriculture grew at 7Z p.a., but growth slowed to an average of 5.5Z
p.a. during 1976-80 and to 3.7Z p.a. during 1981-84. Malaysia is the world's
largest producer and exporter of rubber and palm oil, supplying about 40% of
the world's natural rubber output and more than half of palm oil production.
Its contribution to world exports is about 45% for natural rubber and 70% for
palm oil. Malaysia is also a major exporter of wood and timber.
19.       Malaysia has a strong comparative advantage for tree crop develop-
ment, particularly rubber and oil palm. About one-third of Peninsular
Malaysia and less than 5X of East Malaysia (Sabah and Sarawak) are under
cultivation. The total cultivated area is about 4.5 million ha, of which
about 2.0 million ha are under rubber, 1.3 million ha oil palm, 300,000 ha
coconut, 200,000 ha cocoa and 500,000 ha rice. Other crops include sugarcane,
pineapple, tobacco, coffee and pepper. The entire rice area and about two
thirds of the tree crop area are in smallholdings averaging 1.2 ha; the
remainder is mainly in commercial estates.
20.       With, until recentLy, the strong performance of the Malaysian
economy, poverty incidence has been reduced from about 49Z in 1970 to 29% in
1980. However, it remains high in the rural areas, particularly among rice,
rubber and coconut smallholders and fishermen, primarily because of small farm
sizes and low productivity. Because of low incomes, the rural youth are
migrating to urban areas, reducing the agricultural labor force and contribu-
ting to the slowdown of agricultural output.
Government Policies and Strategy
21.       Government efforts in agriculture have traditionally been oriented
to poverty alleviation in rural areas. In view of the downturn in agriculture
and increasing migration to urban areas, the Government recently reviewed its
sectoral objectives and announced a National Agricultural Policy (NAP). Main-
taining the emphasis on poverty alleviation, the NAP objectives are:
(a) maximization of farm incomes to retain productive labor in the sector; and
(b) expansion of production of traditional and new export and food crops to
revitalize the agricultural sector and to achieve food security.
22.       The Government's main objectives have been pursued through two basic
strategies: (a) land development and settlement to provide viable farm sizes
and adequate incomes, and to expand tree crop production for export through
well organized and managed settlement schemes; and (b) in situ development
projects designed to consolidate small farms, rehabilitate idle land-,
increase productivity and improve farm management. This has led to develop-
ment of large land settlement schemes by the state governments and the Federal
Land Development Authority (FELDA); irrigation projects by the Ministry of
Agriculture; land rehabilitation programs by the Federal Land Consolidation
and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA); and rubber replanting and mini-estate
development programs by the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
(RISDAi.  Under the NAP, these strategies will continue.  However, greater
attention will be given to the problems of uneconomic farm units, unremunera-
tive crops and low productivity in the in situ development projects. This
includes mechanization, promotion of group farming with centralized management



- 7 -
and the intensification of integrated support services and credit for selected
crops.
Bank Sector Strategy
23.       The Bank has consistently supported the Government's poverty alle-
viation objectives and institution building efforts in agriculture. Bank
lending in agriculture has concentrated on land development and irrigation.
More recently, emphasis has also been given to programs designed to raise pro-
ductivity in existing smallholder areas, such as irrigation and drainage
improvement, tree crop rehabilitation, land consolidation and agricultural
research and extension. To date, the Bank has made 25 agricultural loans to
Malaysia amounting to US$769.0 million. An important thrust of future Bank
assistance to Malaysia will continue to be for agriculture along the lines
proposed in the NAP. Particular attention will be paid to resolving struc-
tural problems facing the sector, especially through land consolidation and
improved management of smallholder agriculture, and to further strengthening
of the land deveLopment and settlement programs.
Land Development and Settlement
24.       Malaysia has a long and successful history of government sponsored
and organized land development and settlement. The factors behind this
success include the availability of large tracts of agriculturally suitable
forest land; the introduction of commercially valuabLe cash crops (rubber and
oil palm); well designed and profitable large-scale agricultural development
programs, and management models which allow effective settler participation.
The pacesetter and predominant agency has been FELDA.
FELDA Organization and Management
25.       FELDA, established in 1956 as a Federal Statutory Body, operates
within the Ministry of Land and Regional Development, under a Board of
13 members which includes Government and private sector representatives. Day-
to-day administration is under the Director General. At field level, FELDA is
organized by geographical area and development schemes. Since 1972, FELDA has
established eleven subsidiary corporations and entered into six joint ventures
with the private sector to provide development services and down-stream activ-
ities to the settlement program. Each of these undertakings is headed by a
General Manager and operates commercially, largely independent from FELDA.
with its own staff and resources. FELDA staff numbered nearly 8,000 at the
end of 1984, and total personnel in the FELDA group was 20,700.
FELDA's Development Strategy and Performance
26.       FELDA's land development and settlement strategy consists of an
integrated package comprising: basic infrastructure, agricultural services,
land clearing, planting; selection and emplacement of settlers; provision of
agricultural services such as credit, technical assistance, inputs, processing
and marketing; and community organization and social amenities. Agricultural
development is focussed on oil palm, rubber and cocoa. Development of large
settlement areas, called complexes, are divided into schemes, with their own



-8-
management, labor and settlement village. Each settler is provided with a
house on a 0.1 ha lot in the viLLage. To ensure efficient land use and
farming, oil palm settlers are not allocated individual farm lots, but receive
an unidentified 4.0 ha (10 ac) landholding within a 96 ha block shared by 24
settlers. The block is jointly farmed by the group which shares profits.
After repaying long-term agricultural development and housing loans, settlers
who joined schemes before December 31, 1984 will be gi-7en individual land
titles. Settlers joining after this date will not receive land titles, but
will become shareholders of large production units. This is exp':cted to
minimize differential incomes among settlers farming different crops, and
preserve the commercial estate farming system after settler loans are fully
repaid. FELDA and its subsidiary companies provide management and technical
assistance, agricultural services, inputs and credit. By processing and
marketing the product, and keeping settlers' accounts, FELDA ensures loan
repayments after settlers reach reasonable income levels.
27.       As of December 31, 1984, FELDA had settled about 88,000 families in
367 settlement schemes comprising some 615,000 ha (66% in oil palm, 30% in
rubber and 4% in cocoa and other minor crops). The total area currently in
production is over 370,000 ha. Basic infrastructure includes: construction
of 1,267 km of access roads, establishment of 214 settlement villages
comprising 2,300 km of village roads, and construction of water supply works
for some 127 villages and urban centers serving 210 settlement schemes.
During the 1981-1985 period of the Fourth Malaysia Plan, FELDA undertook
development of some 160,000 ha, or 30% of the national target under the Plan
for an annual average of 32,000 ha. Settler families are being emplaced at an
average rate of 6,000 per year.
Financing
28.       FELDA's main source of funds are grants and loans from the
Government, the Bank and other international lenders. Government grants cover
basic infrastructure investments and some administration costs. Borrowed
funds are used to finance agricultural development, settler housing and
processing facilities. FELDA's financial position is healthy, the result of
sound financial management. Government loans are for 20 to 25 years with 10
years of grace (five years interest free and five years accrued interest) at
51Z to 6½Z, which FELDA onlends at lZ-2Z above the borrowed interest rates for
periods or 13 to 15 years, with interest compounding during two to seven-year
grace periods. Additional surpluses have accrued from management levies,
replanting reserve funds and investment returns. FELDA's investments are
primarily in government bonds, fixed deposits, public companies and FELDA
subsidiaries.
29.       As FELDA's financial position improved, the Government has reduced
FELDA's dependence on Government funds. Since 1983, the Government grants for
administrative expenditures have been reduced to 80%. FELDA has also begun to
reduce its dependence on government loans for its commerical operations. The
recently approved FELDA Palm Oil Mills Project (Ln. 2530-MA), under which
FELDA borrowed directly from the Bank and bears the full cost of borrowing,
was a step in this direction.



- 9
Land Settlement Infrastructure
30.       The basic infrastructure provided under FELDA's integrated land
settlement package (para. 26) comprises access roads and settlement villages.
The latter includes village roads, water supply and treatment facilities,
schools, clinics and other pubLic buildings. Among these, timely provision of
roads and waterworks is particularly critical, since they must be completed
prior to settler arrival. Within the framework of its overall development
plans, FELDA determines infrastructure requirements and construction
schedules, ensures government funding, and coordinates and monitors implemen-
tation. The Federal Government finances construction through budgetary
allocations to FELDA for roads and waterworks, and to the specialized
ministries and departments for other wcrks.
Public Works Department
31.       All public works construction in Peninsular Malaysia is the joint
responsibility of the Federal and State Public Works Departments (PWDs).
Under the Directorates of Roads and Water in Kuala Lumpur, the Federal PWD
(FPWD) has two specialized units in charge of engineering planning, design and
procurement of FELDA roads and waterworks, which constitute the bulk of the
infrastructure. Planning and design of schools, hospitals and other buildings
'are the responsibility of other FPWD directorates. At field level, FPWD has
four Federal Regional Units (FRU) specifically responsible for all works con-
struction and road maintenance for FELDA's and other reg 1nal development
authorities' settlement schemes in the States of Pahang,-  Johor and Negeri
Sembilan, which have the largest concentrations of settlement projects. In
other states, all construction is carried out by state PWD (SPWD) construction
units. These institutional arrangements are generally satisfactory. However,
implementation of FELDA settlement projects is often affected by works con-
struction delays due to lack of planning and coordination shortcomings between
FELDA and PWD, delays in selecting village sites and layout designs by FELDA,
and slow implementation by PWD. These shortcomings will be addressed under
the proposed project through improved coordination, and by using private
consultants for engineering designs and construction supervision (para. 48).
Road Design, Construction and Maintenance
32.       FELDA settlement roads are designed and constructed to PWD rural
roads geometric design standards which have been used in FELDA and other Bank
projects in Malaysia and are satisfactory. Road engineering designs are
carried out by PWD staff and consultants. Construction is mostly carried out
by local contractors. Some roads are being constructed by force account by
FRUs, but it is PWD policy to phase out force account and to use only contrac-
tors in future. The local construction capacity is adequate and the quality
of construction is satisfactory, but requires adequate supervision. Road
construction supervision is generally carried out by PWD staff. However,
PWD's practice of periodic transfer of engineers among sectors, for promotion
4/   There are two FRU in the state of Pahang.



- 10 -
reasons, adversely affects construction supervision, particularLy at the state
level. Also, due to budgetary and administrative restrictions, PWD does not
always have the flexibility to create staff positions and provide supervisory
personnel. The problem of frequent staff transfers between sectors is common
to the Malaysian Civil Service. The proposed project would address the
quality of supervision by using consultants and providing on-the-job training
for junior staff (para. 48).
33.       SPWDs are responsibLe for road maintenance. except in the States of
Pahang, Johor, and Negeri Sembilan where FRUs are responsible. Maintenance is
carried out by force account but, as in the case of road construction, this is
being gradually replaced by maintenance contracts. Although road maintenance
is generally satisfactory, it has been affected by inadequate funding, par-
ticularly for state roads. In view of this, the Federal Government has
gradually assumed responsibility for funding FELDA roads maintenance. It is
the Government's stated intention that, beginning CY1986, all FELDA roads will
be gazetted as federal roads, and maintenance will be financed through annual
grants specifically earmarked for these roads.
Waterworks Design, Construction and O&M
34.       It is government policy to provide settlement villages with piped
water supply and household connections. Water demand is based on quasi-urban
service. Technical design parameters are conservative and include high
factors to allow for breakdowns and water losses due to deficient O&M.
Standard systems use surface sources and are designed to serve groups of
villages. Construction is carried out in accordance with village develop-
ment: initially, provisional intakes, partial treatment (chlorination) and
permanent reticulation systems and reservoirs are constructed for the first
villages to be established; permanent intakes, treatment and pumping
facilities are constructed later when additional villages are developed and
feasibility studies of the whole system are completed. Engineering designs of
permanent waterworks are usually carried out by consultants; construction is
by private contractors. Construction supervision is carried out by PWD staff
and is affected by the same constraints affecting roads (para. 32).
35.       Water management is a state responsibility.  Thus, after construc-
tion, FPWD transfers FELDA waterworks to the states, which then assume respon-
sibility for O&M and collect water charges through SPWD water divisions.
Water divisions are not autonomous and some are financially and managerially
weak, and O&M is deficient. The main constraints affecting O&M are shortages
of qualified staff and lack of clear operational and accounting procedures.
Professional staff (engineers and technicians) are FPWD seconded staff subject
to rotation outside the sector (para. 32) and often with little or no previous
water sector experience. Middle and lower level state-recruited technicians
are in short supply in Malaysia, have minimum qualifications, and their train-
ing is limited to short courses and informal on-the-job training. In response
to this, the Bank is supporting government efforts to improve manpower train-
ing and improve organization and management of state water entities. The
recently negotiated Johor Water Supply Project includes technical assistance
to expand FPWD training services for professional staff, and establishment of
training programs for lower level staff and technical assistance to improve



- 11 -
management and accounting systems in the State of Johor. The proposed project
includes a similar training program in the State of Pahang (see para. 51).
36.       FELDA settlers are required to pay water rates at the same level as
other users, but only after the initial settlement period, when farm incomes
permit. Prior to this, water is not metered and is used freely by settlers,
leading to considerable waste and overdesign of water systems (para. 34).
Moreover, due to lack of revenue during these years the states are reluctant
to operate and maintain the works. Alleviation of this problem would be
addressed under the proposed project (para. 56).
Experience with Past Lending for FELDA
37.       Since 1968, the Bank has made six loans to the Government for FELDA
(Loans 533, 672, 885, 967, 1044 and 1590-HA). A seventh loan directly to
FELDA (Loan 2530-MA) for construction of palm oil mills was signed in June
1985. Five of the first six projects have been successfully completed and the
sixth is proceeding well. These projects cover some 66 settlement schemes,
comprising development of 120,750 ha, construction of basic infrastructure and
settlement of 29,450 families, and establishment of rubber and oil palm
processing facilities. This represents about 20Z of FELDA's land develop-
ment. The Bank has assisted FELDA in its settlement program and institution
building through development of long-term integrated planning and implementa-
tion strategies; improvements in accounting, management and procurement
procedures; strengthening of staff and operations of palm oil mills; contain-
ment of settlement costs per family; introduction of improved planting
materials and wildlife preservation and control measures.
38.       Four Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR)5" and a Completion
Report on the first five projects state that they have all been successful in
meeting project objectives. Achievements in land development, crop yields,
settler emplacement and incomes, and economic returns have been well within
targets and in many cases surpassed them. Implementation, however, was some-
times delayed due to deficient planting techniques, crop damage by wild
animals. Also, settler entry has been delayed by slow construction of access
and village roads and water supply works, a shortcoming which would be
addressed under the project. A draft Impact Evaluation Report of the Jenka
Triangle Projects (Loans 553, 672 and 885-MA) confirms the PPARs'
assessments. The report highlights that the most important factors accounting
for project success and sustainability of benefits have been: project design,
government support, adequate organization and sound settlement systems. It
also indicates that the Project's impact on the environment was found to be
less severe than expected at project completion.
Future FELDA Plans
39.       FELDA plans, during the period of the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1986-90),
call for consolidation of ongoing settlement schemes covering some 92,000 ha,
5/ PPAR Nos. 2122, 3024, 3978 and 4221.



- 12 -
and initiating development of about 83,000 ha of new Land. While consoli-
dation will focus on Peninsular Malaysia, new land development will concen-
trate on Sabah, East Malaysia. About 30,000 new families are expected to be
settled during the Fifth Plan. Total investments during 1986-90 are projected
at about US$l biLlion. Consolidation of ongoing schemes will focus on the
completion of basic infrastructure and processing faciLities to accelerate
empLacement of settlers and production benefits. The FELDA Palm Oil Mills
project (Loan 2530-MA, approved on May 7, 1985) and the currently proposed
project wouLd support chese efforts. Development and settlement of new lands
wilL continue to be carried out under the existing strategy, which has been
successful. Agricultural developmenc will be primarily in oil paLm which is
more profitable and requires less Labor than rubber. Rubber planting will be
limited to steeper areas not suitabLe for oil palm.
40.       Although FELDA is one of the world's most experienced land develop-
ment agencies, it is now facing a change of circumstances which will require
different approaches. As plantings in early settlement schemes reach the end
of their useful life, replanting will become increasingly important, and
initially reduced settler incomes from palm oil and rubber will make farming,
at least temporarily, Less attractive. Similarly, as the original settlers
grow older and the younger generation migrates to urban areas, labor shortages
may become a problem. This would require development of new off-farm
activities to enhance income and keep young settlers on the schemes. Another
issue facing FELDA is the loss of direct control over agricultural production
and marketing, with the risk of reduced productivity, when land titles are
issued to settlers completing repayment of their development loans. Also to
be addressed is the decision to make new settlers shareholders, instead of
granting them individual land titles (para. 26). Finally, land development
and settlement in East Malaysia will require a different approach due to low
population densities, land issues, the geopolitical status of the two East
Malaysian states and the large influx of foreign labor from neighboring
countries. Bank involvement in the proposed project would permit continued
dialogue on these issues.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.       In the past, Bank assistance to FELDA's land settlement program has
been on a complex-by-complex basis. Also, Bank loans have been used to
finance agricultural investments, farm roads, settler houses and crop
processing facilities, leaving the financing of access and village roads,
water supply works and other settlement infrastructure to the Government; this
has limited the Bank's leverage for timely construction and to promote
improvements in planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of
these components. During Government-FELDA-Bank discussions in late-1982 and
early-1983, it was agreed that the Bank could more effectively provide
assistance to the overall settlement program on a time-slice basis, and by
shifting loan disbursements to the infrastructure components of the land
development and settlement package. This would permit continuance of the



- 13 -
dialogue on the overall program, focusing attention on these components.
FELDA and FPWD staff prepared the proposed project, assisted by local
consultants. Project processing was delayed due to the fiscal constraints
facing Malaysia but, in January 1984, the Covernment reinstated its request
for Bank assistance. Project appraisal took place in April 1985. Loan
negotiations were held at the Bank in earLy-November 1985, with the Government
delegation led by Mr. Yahya Yaacob, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5804-MA), dated November 15, 1985 is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data are given in Annex III of this report.
Objectives
42.       The project would support the Government's land settlement program
by assisting FELDA and PWD in providing basic infrastructure for existing land
settlement schemes during the Fifth Malaysia Plan. It would contribute the
following: (a) raising incomes and improving living standards of about 26,000
future settler families; (b) developing and realizing production from about
105,000 ha in Peninsular Malaysia; (c) providing drinking water to about
150,000 people in settlement villages; (d) improving PWD's civil works const-
ruction supervision and waterworks O&M practices; (e) improving water consump-
tion practices in FELDA settlement villages, and (f) assisting the Government
to overcome Malaysia's current fiscal and balance of payments constraints.
Description
43.       The project would include:  (a) construction of about 190 km of
access roads, 650 km of village roads and 18 bridges in FELDA settlement
schemes in Peninsular Malaysia; (b) construction of seven permanent water
supply systems, including intakes, treatment plants, conveyance mains, reser-
voirs and reticulation mains, and provision of operation and maintenance
vehicles for some 44 settlement villages and townships in the States of Johor
and Pahang; and (c) development and implementation of a training program to
improve operation and maintenance of water supply facilities in the State of
Pahang.
44.       Roads.  Settlement access and village roads would be constructed in
20 settlement complexes for some 25 villages serving 65 settlement schemes
with a total area of about 105,000 ha of oil palm, rubber and cocoa. Identi-
-fication of these schemes was based on FELDA's current development plans, but
could be subject to change during implementation. Project roads would be
constructed to PWD Rural Roads Geometric Design and construction standards
which are satisfactory, with some modifications agreed during project
appraisal. Access roads would link settlement schemes and villages with the
existing road network. Village roads would constitute the layout and internal
communication system of settler villages.
45.       Water Supply Works.  The project would not introduce major changes
to technical design parameters, but would place major emphasis on improving
O&M, as a preliminary step to bring about technical changes. The proposed
water supply systems are in different stages of development. All have
temporary intake structures; distribution mains, reservoirs and reticulation
systems have been constructed in some villages. The project would provide for



- 14 -
construction of permanent intake and treatment works and completion of mains,
reticulations and reservoirs for villages still lacking them. Reticulation
works would include household connections and water meters. Funds would also
be provided under the project for the purchase of vehicles and equipment for
waterworks O&M.
46.       Water Supply Training.  This component aims at establishing in-house
capabilities to satisfy present and future training needs of medium and junior
level staff for O&M of water supply facilities in the State of Pahang. It
would include: (a) establishment and staffing of a training unit; (b) identi-
fication of training needs, followed by development and implementation of a
training program for technicians and operators; (c) development and implemen-
tation of O&M procedures and management systems; (d) provision of about
48 man-months of experts to assist the Pahang Water Supply Division (PWSD) in
the implementation of (a) through (c) above; and (e) construction of training
and accommodation facilities for trainees and supply of related equipment and
furniture.
Implementation
47.       The project would be implemented during 1986-91, in accordance with
settlement schemes/village development plans. Detailed design of about 25% of
the roads is already completed. Feasibility studies of five of the seven
proposed water supply works have been completed, and a substantial part of the
detailed designs will be ready by the end of CY1985. Procurement of some of
the works has started in accordance with Bank Guidelines. To ensure timely
construction, the Bank would review annual FELDA/PWD works construction
programs in light of the respective schemes' land development and settler
emplacement progress.
48.       Project implementation would be the joint responsibility of FELDA
and PND. FELDA would be primarily responsible for overall planning and
monitoring of implementation and reporting through its Budget and Planning and
Engineering Departments. FPWD Directorates of Roads (DR) and Water Supply
(DWS), assisted by consultants, would carry out engineering designs and
oversee construction supervision. FPWD regional units (FRU) in the States of
Pahang, Johor and Negeri Sembilan would be responsible for construction of all
waterworks and about 65% of project roads. SPWDs would be responsible for
construction of the remaining roads in other states. Works construction would
be carried out by contractors. The project would seek to improve works
construction by strengthening construction supervision. DR and DWS would play
a more active role in monitoring construction progress and quality. PWD would
empLoy local engineering consultants to carry out construction supervision of
all waterworks and about 460 km of roads, including all roads under the SPWDs'
responsibility, and some 145 km in Pahang. Other road contracts in Pahang,
Johor and Negeri Sembilan would be supervised by FRU staff, assisted by an
advisory team, also to be employed under the project by June 30, 1986, for a
period of at least 24 months. At negotiations, assurances were obtained on
these supervision and consultancy arrangements.
49.       Road maintenance would be the responsibility of SPWDs and FRU under
existing arrangements which are adequate (para. 33). Assurances were obtained



- 15 -
that:  (a) after construction, all project roads would be gazetted as federal
roads and maintenance wouLd be financed by the Federal Government through
annual budgetary allocations to the states and FRUs responsible for their
maintenance; and (b) such allocations would be determined in accordance with
average routine and periodic maintenance costs of similar roads in Malaysia.
50.       After construction, FPWD would transfer responsibility for
waterworks O&M and financing to the States of Pahang and Johor. The states
would ensure that each system is adequatelv staffed. operated and maintained
in accordance with sound management and engineering practices. Assurances to
this effect have been obtained.
51.       Implementation of the Pahang training program for waterworks O&M
would be a joint Federal and State responsibility through DWS and the State of
Pahang's Water Supply Division (PWSD). FPWD would establish and staff the
Pahang Training Unit (PTU), employ consultants, construct training facilities
and operate the PTU during the initial three years; funding for investments
and the initial operating period would be by the Federal Government. The PWSD
would actively participate in the design and establishment of the unit and
after the establishment period would assume full management and financial
responsibility for its operation. The PTU would be managed by three
professionals and four middle level staff who would be trained as trainers
under the project. Two internationally recruited training and operational
advisors would be employed by June 30, 1986 for a two-year period to assist
FPWD in establishing the PTU and development and initial implementation of the
training programs. Assurances were obtained on the establishment, operational
and funding responsibilities of the PTU and appointment of local staff and
consultants.
Project Costs and Financing
52.       Total project costs amount to US$97.4 million, including a foreign
exchange component of US$50.0 million or 51Z. Project costs include about
US$9.5 million in identifiable taxes and duties. Agricultural development
expenditures are not included in total project costs. Base costs of 25% of
the roads have been estimated on the basis of detailed designs; for other
roads, costs have been estimated per km in accordance with terrain and based
on PWD historical costs; base costs for waterworks have been determined from
feasibility designs. All base costs are in December 1985 prices. A physical
contingency of 10% has been included for waterworks and roads with detailed
designs, engineering services and equipment, and 20% for roads not yet
designed. Price contingencies amount to 14% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies, based on the following expected price increases; for local
costs: 5% for 1986-1991; for foreign costs: 7% for 1986-87, 7.5% for 1988,
7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for 1990 and 4.5% for 1991.
53.       The Bank loan to Malaysia of US$50.0 million would finance the
project's foreign exchange cost, 57% of costs net of duties and taxes or about
51Z of total cost. The Government would finance US$47.4 million from its own
resources. Provision has been made for retroactive financing up to US$2
million for expenditures made after May 30, 1985 under contracts awarded in
accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 16 -
Agricultural Development
54.       Construction of project infrastructure, particularly roads, would
ensure settler empLacement and full agricultural development of an esti:.ated
105,500 ha comprising 65 ongoing settlement schemes in Peninsular Malaysia.
Initial development of these schemes started within the 1979/80 and 1985/86
planting seasons, and about 80% of the area has been cleared and partially
planted. Of this area, some 79,800 ha (76%) are being developed to oil palm,
24,100 ha (23%) to rubber and some 1,600 ha (1Z) to cocoa. The large
proportion of oil palm area reflects the strong shift from rubber cultivation
in recent years, due to higher profitability, faster returns and lower labor
requirements. This shift also reflects the fact that steeper areas which are
more suitable for rubber than for oil palm are increasingly being retained in
forest. Crop development is in accordance with standard FELDA agricultural
practices, developed since the late fifties, and comparable to the Malaysian
private estate sector. The combined annual fresh fruit bunch (ffb) production
from project-assisted schemes at full development is estimated at 1.7 million
tons, yielding some 350,000 tons of crude palm oil (CPO) and 70,000 tons of
palm kernel which would be about 3.7% of total Malaysian production in 1995.
The combined annual rubber production from project-assisted schemes at full
development is estimated at 43,000 tons of dry rubber, which is about 3Z of
total production in Malaysia in 1995. Crop processing and marketing are
efficiently carried out by the several FELDA subsidiary corporations. Most
natural rubber and palm oil would be exported through well established export
channels. International demand for these commodities is expected to grow and
market prospects are considered favorable.
Cost Recovery - Water Tariffs
55.       Investments in basic settlement infrastructure, including roads,
water supply and public buildings would not be directly recovered. However,
agricultural development expenditures, including those for farm roads and
FELDA's field management, totalling some US$338 million, would be financed by
settlers through long-term loans. In addition, settlers would pay a rubber
replanting cess, export duties and income tax. Water supply facilities for
land settlement schemes would be transferred by the Federal Government to the
states as grants. However, settlers would be required to pay residential
water tariffs after five years of initial settlement (para. 36) at the same
levels as urban dwellers. Uniform water tariffs are determined by each state
but differ for residentiaL and commercial users. Residential tariffs increase
with consumption. Although there is no prescribed federal policy on tariff6,
guidelines require that state tariffs fully cover O&M costs and contribute to
capital investment costs. Under these arrangements, operation of the water
supply systems financed under the p-oject is not expected to be a firancial
burden to the states, provided that free water to settlers during the initial
settlement period is limited and billing and collection are adequate.
56.       During project preparation, FPWD recommended that state governments
limit free ater to settlers during the initial settlement period to basic
needs. This is a positive step to control waste and reduce O&M costs.
Assurances were obtained that (a) the Federal Government would take steps to
ensure that the States of Pahang and Johor will limit free water to settlers



- 17 -
during the initial settlement period to a voLume sufficient to meet basic
needs, as determined by FPWD, and after December 31, 1986, such amount shall
not exceed 18,000 liters/month/family. It was also agreed that: (a) FPWD
would periodically review, and if necessary revise, free water allowance
levels to settlers and advise the states accordingly; (b) water meters would
be installed in each property at the time of construction of each village
reticulation system; and (c) FELDA would assist the states in collecting water
charges from settler households.
Procurement
57.       Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Item                 ICB          LCB     Other         Total cost
--- -    (US$ million) -
Civil works                  35.0          43.9        -             78.9
(16.4)/a     (20.7)        -           (37.1)
Equipment and vehicles        6.9           3.6        -             10.5
(5.2)        (2.7)        -            (7.9)
Engineering                                  -        8.0             8.0
and training services        -             -       (5.0)           (5.0)
Total                        41.9          47.5       8.0            97.4
(21.6)       (23.4)      (5.0)         (50.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses indicate amounts of Bank financing.
58.       Civil works construction contracts costing US$2.0 million or more,
and equipment, vehicles and pipe supply contracts costing US$200,000 or more
would be awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance
with Bank guidelines; other contracts may be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures, which are satisfactory, and under which
foreign contractors would be allowed to participate. The local construction
industry is well experienced in the type of works included in the project.
Several international contractors are established in the country and foreign
manufacturers of equipment are well represented through local suppliers, and
they are expected to participate in ICB and LCB. A margin of preference of
15Z of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the actual customs duty and
import taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed to domestic manufacturers.
To ensure efficient project implementation, adequate supervision and reason-
able competition, to the extent possible, contracts would be grouped in
packages of US$1.0 million or more for civil works and US$200,000 for goods.
Also, for efficiency, pipelaying works would be combined with village road
construction contracts by villages.  Consultants for engineering, supervision



- 18 -
and training wouLd be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines. Civil
works contracts over US$1.0 milLion and supply contracts over US$200,000 would
be subject to prior review. rhis would cover over 80X of the total value of
all contracts. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award
review. Advance contracting is foreseen for several civil works and supply
contracts for which final designs have been completed (para. 47). Tender
documents and advertising have been carried out in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
Disbursements
59.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against normal documentation as
follows: (a) 47% of civil works; (b) 100X of the foreign exchange cost of
directly imported equipment, vehicles and materials, or 100Z of the ex-factory
price net of taxes for items manufactured locally, or 75Z of local expendi-
tures for equipment and materials procured locally; and (c) 100% of expendi-
tures for consulting services. To the extent practical, withdrawal
applications would be aggregated in amounts of US$100,000 or more. The loan
is expected to be disbursed over seven years which is about two years faster
than the historical profile for Bank loans for agriculture in Malaysia, but is
comparable to disbursements under earlier FELDA land settlement projects.
Moreover, the project is a time-slice of an ongoing program, and engineering
designs and procurement of contracts for the first two years of implementation
is underway.
Accounts and Audit
60.       FELDA and PWD maintain detailed accounts which are subject to normal
government control and eudit procedures; FELDA accounts are audited by inde-
pendent private auditors. Assurances were obtained that separate project
accounts for FELDA and PWD would be maintained, and audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and the auditors' reports
furnished to the Bank within six months following the close of the
Government's fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
61.       The project would bring about social, economic and institution
building benefits. Construction of access and village roads would ensure
settlement of some 26,000 families and development of some 105,000 ha of oil
palm and rubber. Under the settlement program, each family would be entitled
to a 4 ha (10 ac) landholding or equivalent share in established oil palm or
rubber. During crop estabLishment before harvesting, settlers would receive
subsistence incomes. At full development, settler family incomes would range
from US$3,500 to US$6,600 p.a., compared with the poverty income level of
US$1,750 p.a. Construction of water supply facilities, housing and other
infrastructure provided under the land settlement package would improve the
living standard of settler families. By 1990, annual palm oil and rubber
production from project-assisted schemes would generate about US$234 million
in foreign exchange earnings per year. Provision of consulting services for
construction supervision and staff training would improve the quality of works
and reduce maintenance requirements. Establishment of the water supply



- 19 -
training program would support government efforts to improve O&M and manage-
ment operations of water supply facilities nationwide, and in the State of
Pahang in particular. Finally, the proposed loan would assist the Government
to overcome the country's balance of payments and fiscal constraints.
62.       Infrastructure investments are an integral part of the land
development and settlement package (para. 26), and their economic justifi-
cation is based on the overall performance of the package. Bank experience
has been that FELDA projects, without exception, are economically viable
(para. 38). The schemes to be assisted under the project would develop the
same crops (oil palm and rubber), have the same characteristics and are
expected to yield comparable economic returns as those financed in the past.
Accordingly, the economic evaluation of the proposed project was carried out
on the basis of five selected settlement complexes which, while being a
representative sample of all project-assisted complexes, are affected by less
favorable conditions in terms of cropping pattern and infrastructure costs.
The economic rates of return (ERR) of these complexes range from 14% to 26%,
with lower returns from complexes wich a higher proportion of the area in
rubber and long access roads. ERRs of other project-assisted settlement
complexes are expected to be higher. Moreover, Bank-financed project roads
would be subject to Bank review and acceptance of detailed engineering design,
and each settlement complex must show an ERR of at least 102, the opportunity
cost of capital in Malaysia. There are no major risks associated with the
project. FELDA's experience in implementing the integrated settlement package
ensures its timely implementation and sustained levels of agricultural produc-
tion and benefits to settler families. The selected settlement schemes can
suffer either cost increases or benefit decreases of 20% and still remain
economically viable. The ERR is more sensitive to changes in agricultural
benefits than to changes in production and total costs. Road costs would have
to increase substantially to cause significant reductions in the ERR.
Environmental Impact
63.       Planning and implementation of Malaysia's land settlement program is
carried out to minimize negative physical effects on the environment. The
Government, over the years, has issued a number of regulations to overcome and
prevent environmental problems. As confirmed by OED (para. 38), FELDA has
been very responsive to these regulations, and has developed practical
solutions to environmental issues. Learning from experience, it has corrected
planning and implementation shortcomings which affected early projects, such
as those in the Jengka area. Master development plans include national parks
and reserves for preservation of indigenous species. Tribal groups are
provided with compensatory land, and actions are taken to safeguard their
interests and enhance their well-being. Land with slopes above 200 is
excluded from cultivation, maintained in forest and protected; cleared land is
promptly planted with -rees and fast growing cover crops to prevent erosion;
water effluents from crop processing facilities are treated to reduce
biological and solid contamination to safe levels in accordance with strict
environmental standards. Provision of health services and potable water,
which would be supported under the project, prevent the occurrence of endemic
diseases. The existence of protected reserves notwithstanding, wild life,
particularly elephants, have caused destruction in plantation areas which



- 20 -
obstructed access to grazing areas. Also, up to now, the impact of land
clearing on wild life has not been fully assessed. However, the Government
recently submitted to Parliament a bill which would require, inter alia, the
carrying out of an Environmental Impact Assessment prior to undertaking any
new land development project. Gazetting of this bill is expected in early
1986. Furthermore, agreement was reached during negotiations that project
implementation would be carried out in accordance with appropriate
environmental standards.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
November 19, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
- 21 -
PWAVSIA         W         MAL IoIAtIS DTSHT
uALAYSIA                                    I"MROS (KIGI  AVEAB) lb
M3ST                     (HOST SQNT ESTMATE) /b
TBRN             mi1i   tmo              m 1 
s:8!       j97gJb  asTUINTb        ASIA A FACIFIC          LAT. AIItlCA 6 CAR
TOAL                               329.3       329.3       329.6
ACCIILHURAL                         34.3        394        43.'
-S  "C         CUsP                     ..          ..       300.0 01/          Wll.l                    1a75.p
_No    aewnu    tlln c.;a
CZILOCRAHS OF OIL "UJVALEr)       b13.0       *S5.0      089.0              Sm&.3                    "3.b
SP    SD VITAL STATISTIC
rWmanumn-D-ua (cums})   3205.0    t0603.0    14463.0
uBA   WULATIONI CZ or TOTAL)        25.2        27.0        30.7              35.j                      67.7
POPULATtON SOJCII0IS
POPULATU  in VEl 2000 CtLL)                              20.5
STATIONAIT POPULATION (MILL)                             33.0
PorULATIOIS !OPCI1V                                        1.6
POPULATIOMI oiuim
Ra 10. IN.                        24.9        32.9       45.1              331.9                      44.0
PMU SQ. 3M. ACRE. LAID           235.5       213.3       333.2            1591.2                      91.1
FOPFULATION AM  STRUCTIURE CZ)
0-14 135                         45.4        43.4h       37.7              36.2                      38.5
33*-0  16                         51.4       51.4        33.0               37.7                     37.1
65 AMD ASKM                        3.4         3.0         3.7               3.3                       4.2
POPULATION 0301111 RATE CI)
TOTA                               2.7         248         2.4               2.3                       2.4
UnmA                               4.9         3.4         3.4               4.1                       3.0
COWn  urn PATE CPES mans)           4.3         33.7       29.1               3041                     YAJ
WmeI  DEATH  A  CUE l TigOs)        34.9        9.2         6.4                9.4                      8.0
GROS aF3000CfIl0 SAtE                3.4         2.0         1.5               1.9                       2.u
VARILT PLAA31136
AGCPIOES. ANN"A  ClaOSs)           ..         56.0        51.1 IC
69535 CZ or NASRO  UdIMl)          ..         33.0 Id    42.0               56.5                      43.3
m011 -l  nuir
DISM OF MOD PRO. PER GRETA
(3969-71.100)                       05.0        99.0      133.0              124.4                     109.4
MR CAPITA. SWILl OF
cM=SI  CZ OF MCQtIURdIUl)        102.0       109.0       122.0             113.7                     113.2
fl01C3S (CRAMS PM DAT)            40.0        50.0        40.0              00.3                      09.4
OIP 111101 ANITMAL AND PULSE     17.0        16.0        23.0 la           14.1                      34.2
CWILD (AGm 1-4) DEA7N RATS           7.5        3.4         1.4                7.2                      04.
LIPS ElIO. AT 31351 ClEARS)         33.9        63.2       04.                60.0                      04.0
137A  M HO. RATE CIPU DUO)          72.0       43.5        29.0               64.9                     59.7
ACMSS TO) SAPS WSTR (29,)
TOTAL                              ..         29.0        03.u le           44.0                      65.3
UBNm                               ..        100.0        90.07 3e 7.0                                76.3
MURAL                              ..1.0                  49.0 7;           37.1                      44.2
ACCS TO COCAM DISPOSA
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          9.0        70.0 Ic           30.1                      5b.3
URBA                               ..        100.0       300.0 Jj           32.                       73.4
ROMEtAL                                       43.0        53.0 K            4497                      25.5
POPULATlION PER PHSCIAN           7000.0     4310.0      7910.0  .          17351.7                   1909.7
POP. PS HORSING P13505            1600.0      1120.0      940.0 7*          2064.3                    605.2
POP. PC 00691EAL MD
TOTAL                            270.0       290.0         ..1112.1                                  302.0
UNmA                             110.0       140.0         6. 31.4                                   422.0
RURAL.                          3710.0      1700.0         ..2596.9                                 2710.7
A6MISSIOIS PER HOSITAL 350 Q                    16.4                          4t 0.1                    27.3
OSAGSt2ur  IUNLn
TOTAL                              .            .0,it
133AM                              ..           .97
RURtAL                             .s.s7Y
AVERAGE HO. OF PSRSNS/UWI
TOTAL                              ..          2iff
U OMA                              ..          2.3 7W
RURAL                              ..          273S
1C5RrS Al. OF                                  5.UNS  5I ELEC5.
TOTAL                              .7         43.4 If
UR1                                 .         84.? 7*
A7US$1,990 In _    1984.



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                           Page 2of 6
MALAYSIA              -  I AL INDtCATORtS DATA 
HALa!iAo                           RZ?133N0 9U (cEo I1?  AVIRAGU7) /a
1115? lTCaoT RlECENT  SIMATE) /b
35ON3            MIDDLE INOME           aD        m IC
1960C:b   ! 7Ob i.w,              ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMCA & CM
ADJUD IJOLIJN  RATIOS
P6ILAT   TOTAL                  96.0        S7.0       92.0             100.7                    106.7
ALZ                   100.0       91.0       93.0             104.4                   106.5
73MALX                33.0       14.0        91.0              97.2                   104.6
sECOUDARYt TOTAL                 19.0       34.0       49.0              47.B                    44.2
Mi. 5                 25.0        40.0       50.0              50.6                    42.7
PMLE                  13.0        28.0       49.0              44..                    44.9
VOCATIONAL CZ 0 SEWUMAT)          4.6         2.9        1.4              18.4                    13.3
PUPL-TEACER RAIO
P13KA13                         2S.0        31.0       26.0              30.4                    29.9
SECONDUA                       25.0        26.0       21.0              22.2                     16.7
PASSIUN    CARSITNOJSADI POIP     11.3        21.9       42.8 la           10.1                    46.0
RADIO IECIWRTNDUSlA    POP        36.9        39.6      415.4 7c          172.9                   328.3
TV rZnIVmUTN oUSAII 101            3.2 /h    12.0        39.9              58.5                    112.4
MISASR  M"Afl.T GIUtAL
XErR8T") CIKU:LATI
Psi uouSAND POPULATICO           60.0        72.1      132.2              65.3                    81.1
cSINR  An"UAL ATTMAMCECAPITA      18.0         9.4        2.6 Ie            3.4                     2.4
TOTAL LBOR FORMC (TTOUS)        2800.0      3668.0     5431.0                *
131*1 (PEECUIT)                 27.2        31.4       31.8              33.6                    23.6
ACRICIIZE CPEtZlRW)             63.0        56.0       50.0 /c           52.2                     31.4
IEI1STR cpUORCnI)                12.0       14.0       i6.o 7c           17.9                    24.3
PARIICIPATI  RATE (PERCEM)
TOTAL                            34.1       33.6       36.S              3S.9                     33.5
MHLA                             48.        45.7       49.3              50.8                     51.3
F131LZ                           18.9       21.5       23.2              26.6                     1S.9
ECOSOHIC UDENDUNCI RATIO           1.4         1.4        1.2               1.1                     1.3
JUCnT 01 PRIVATE INCOME
T orr ntvD
IcuSr sE OF HOUSEDLDS            34.0       27.0
HIGES T 202 0 HOUSIJO S         61.2       56.6        ..               43.0
LOWEST 20S 0  OUB190LDS          3.2         3.3        ..                6.4
LOESr 40S or EODSZHDLDS           9.6       10.6        ..               15.5
ZSDSD   ABSOLUTE POVERn  DlOK
LZVIL (US$ PER CAin
onU."                             ..       123.6      314.4 Ic            ..                     23B.3
RURAL                             ..       111.6      239.2 7e          151.9                    185.3
ZSTDIAUD  Am        POVEnT? D1COME
LEEL (USW PMR CAPITA)
D6                                ..         ..         ..              177.9                    519.3
RUAL                              ..         ..         ..              164.7                    359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABS0I=
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
UR1Am                            ..         21.3       12.6 /c           23.5
mRomL                             *-        58.7       37.7 Qr           37.8
orT AVAILIBLE
WOr APPLICL
N O T Z 5
/a  The uoup ewerago for each indicator are populatiow-waegkted arLtbettc man. Caverag of contrtla
amosn thu Indicators dependa on evailabity of data and lc not uniforn.
lb  Unleau  otherrse noted. "Dta for 1960" refer to any year beween 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betrn
1969 and 1971; and data for "MHot Recent  atiwet" betwen 1981 and 1983.
/c  1980; /d 1974; /a 1977; /f Penalaular Malaysia; L  1978; /b 1964.
JUNE, 1935



ANNEX I
- 23-                                           Page  3 of 6
DOIEMMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note: Althouh lhedam andrawnfrom sougenmeallyjudgd thematautioritative ndrelible, it should also be noted that they may mmol be internatmondly
comparbe becme of the tack of sandardizd dedintiou  and conpt sud by diffnt countrics in colhecting she data. The ds ae ronectheleaks uslul to
decribc oders orlmaitude, indicate trenda and crbacerize oertin mq  diffeecs betwen ceounties.
The refieree groups are (1) the mc country grup of the ubject country and (2) a eountry group with somewhat higher average ince ne than the country
gmupoherb sieet countrs (ecept for High Inecome Oil Expoter  rup where Mdiddle Income North Afria and Middk East is chots because ot stronger
ascio-culal aids).  s reference group data the savps ame population weighted arithmetic means for ach indicator and shown only when majonny
fih countries in agup has data for that indiktor. Since the coverge ofcountries among the indicators depends on the avabmbilityord staaid is not uniforr
caution mumt be ercicd in relating ave*ges done indicator to annocr. Thec averge an only umeful in comparing the valiuc urac indiator t a stin aosung
the country and refrece groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         Crude Rink Rate (per rkoesand)-Number of livc births in the year
Toni-Total surface aea comprising land area and inland waters  per thousand of naid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Cdrd Deatr Rate (per thoeaadJ-Number of deaths in the ycar
Agrlcuh'IEstim ate of agricultural area used tenporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pennanendy for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Cress Repreaio Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period if she expericnces
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages erding
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market prices, calculated by s-e  conversion method as World   F       Pl.ning-Accepors, Annal (rheusmlkl-Annual num-
Bank Aras (1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices olfnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   amnily planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    Fan* Planning-Users (prcent of married weaen)tep-The percen-
petroleum, atural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dce-  tage of married women or child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricdy) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any fornt of contrscepLion. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearnng age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Tad Populan, Mid-1Yea (dataJ s)-As ofJuly 1; 1960. 1970,       FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
URInd  ofFeedProducion Per Capita (1969-T1 = 1lO)t- Indcx ofper
Uron 11eai  adif   (per ent i ri l-Rtio of urban to total      capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
poulation: different definitons of urban areas may affect compar-  e*ue anmlfe  n  edfrariutr.Fo   omdte
ability of data amOng countris; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     incdudes aimal fed anditieed f(g asugarcane instead of sugar)
Papdltx Poetions                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popdadtirn in year 2000-The projection of population for 20M.0,    excludedk thev comptise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetabes. fruits. nuts. sugrcane and supr beets. livestock. and
total population by age and s, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. thee parameters  on national average producer price weights: ;961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            Per Capita Supply of CaG s fpercent f-reqiiresnr- -Coomput-
Stati "aypopulazion-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertilty rates have simultaneously remained at replacement levd  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is    exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. q uantitles used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and sCx distribuuon of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household levdl; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momnenum-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capita Sply of oPtein (gros per duy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacamen-level fertili!y has been  per capita net supply of rood per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which I) granm
the year tr given the assumption that fertilty remains at replace-  should be animal protein. Thesc standards are lower than ihose of
meat level from year t onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protcin as an
Populatin, Dena*y                                              average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World F'ood
Per sq.ka-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total arean 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Capita Protein Sepply  wfn AniknaandPalse-Proein supply
Per sqkm. agricularal land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived frim animals and pulses in grams per day: 19ol-65.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Populaio  Age Strucure (peretJ)--Children (0-14 yeas). work-   CAid (ages 1-4) Death Rae (pertkausadj -Number ofdeaths of
iig age (l5-64 yars. and retird (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countrics data derived
Ptp.fati.n Growth RAte (percent)-toeafl-Annual growth rates of  from life tables. 1960. 1976 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
Popr   Growth Ra(pr t)h Annual growth rates                    Lif Expectany at link (yrsj-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197043 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
- 24 -
at the time of or its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire;  Pupit-eacher Ratio - primary. and wcemdry*-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 19R3 data,                                     rolled in primary and secondary klvels divided by numbers of
lIfa- Manahy Rate (per thmmdt)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                CONSUMPTION
Am   -o Sale Wher (percwot  AI p    tle)-4etdo, wham, od      Passeng  Car (per themE pqltie.j-Pausenger cas comr
and-Number of people (totaL urban. and rural) with reasonable  pnse motor cars seating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
acces to safe watr supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances, hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as tht from protcd    Rado Receies (per tSeassadppulaionj-All types or receiver
borehols, springs   sannitry wels) a percentages of their rcpe-  fror radio broadcasts to general public per thousard or population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensd receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meter from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect: data ror recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural ares  not be comparble since most countries abolished liesng.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the  uecvipers (per             -TV reclvsh fo broadcas
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate pan of the day  TVRecls (per meh pu    la-TV  receiv for broadt
in fetching the famnily's water eeds.                         to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicesed TV
Am -o a.rct Di_pml (pexrcent   p,  s                          receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
and rmwl-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspr Crcmftn (per thesatpepulaeaion)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of 'daily geneal interest newspaper.' defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primanrily to recording geera news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and sirnitar installations.  It is considered to be "daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Popalaoxep r  Pflsklms-Ppulation divided by number of prac-   CGem  Axm! Anenam   pe Capiea pw Yar-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university levcl.    number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
A _p.l.tbu per Nsikg Parson-Population divided by number of   drive-in cinemRs and mobile units.
practicing male and femak graduate nurses, assistant nurses,O
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
1qkk   g lSpie_  Be  4td, Wb,  awt rmn-Population             Tretd LA&    FoDrc r   t_isJb-lconomically active persons. in-
'totaL urba , and Isial) d-ead by tha, respecuiae number Of   cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,
(tosntal urbesan,p and prural)dividedy theiera redspective mber o students etc.. covering population of al agcs Deinitions in
hospital beds available in public and private. general and 7CauC  aiu  onre  r  o  oprbe  90  90ad18  aa
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  varous countnes arr not cmpamble. 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
pmanenty staffed by at kast one physician. Establishments prov-  Fek (percent-Fenmalc labor fore as percentage O otal labor
Wding principally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals.    force.
howevr. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Apicubae (prcent-Labor force in farming. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommnodation and provide a limited range  data.
of meical facities.                                           lndry (peceawj-Labor force in wining, construction, manu-
Admission per Hospa Red-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity. water and gas as perentage of total labor
dichbarges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force. 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pare      r Je R  (peranej-teal. mule, madJAle-Paricipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. male, and fenale labor force
Avrae Sie of HeehuW  (prsu per howslheMj-te4 wrhn,           as perentages of total, male and female population of all ages
aadramw-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectivly; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quaters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structur ofthe population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Av;        NuMber Of Person pr ROO-seal, uran, and rral- -    Economic Dependeny Rate-Ratio of population under 1S. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DlSTRIBtUTON
Percewage of DweMup with Elecricity-total, wrha, ad rura--    Perc ge of Tot D;_psabkle  nw (bet is cas md kind)--
Conventional dwelings with eectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tape of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Ausred EuroAmeat Ratios                                       The following estimates are very approximate measures of powerty
Pnuary school - total, nme and fentie-Gro  total, male and    levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary klvel as percentages of  Estnated Absolute Popery Incom  Leed ($ per cap_a-w6m
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rra-Absolute poverty income levd is that income levd
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirments is not affordabl.
are reflected in the ratios givaL For some countries with universal  Esmisted Reltire Poerty Incom  Leved (5 per capybaJ_-ra
educatio  gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rur-Rura  relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
agt-                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondy scool - towa, mwae and female-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Est,iusaed Pqpalto Belw Absolute Poverty IncJomr Leve (per-
mary insruction; provides general, vocationaL or teacdr training  cet)-rhw and rua- Prent of population (urban and rural
instructons for pupils usuany of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.
ence courses are geneay exduded.
Vocatioa Enrollrme  (percet of secodaryi-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technial, industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as deparnments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



_ 25 -
COtNTAS  DATA - MALAYSIA
COMI NATIONAL PIIOBICT N1 19294t                                              UAL RATE OF GcVl
Ct C's emoteat pries and NS)
US n ML.         I            1961-70        1971-77       2973     1279        2960     lost      19S2      1933      I94
GNP at tibet Pricas                 30.621        I0D.0           0.4            7.6          5.9       9.0       6.0       7.2       4.3       4.4       h. I
Ceas Dometic Irnveewat             10,183          33.1           6.7           11.4          6.1      13.5       6.0      22.1      14.6       6.6       3.2
ra   Natimenl Sevin                  7.959         20.0            a                           A         a         a              a         a   4          5
beprte of c.s. 46 MPs              18i399          b0.I           6.0            7.5          7.6      17.5       2.7       0.5       6.1 11     .11     14.7
I_prts of  end. 06 PS              16.473          60.3           2.9            6.5         12.9      26.5      11.1       7.2      11.2       7.6       9.3
4111U1. LABOR Pl    AND
PUI0UCTVITt 11N 1963 b             gf~L                    .2!!
1MMUCIvlYrim l9ilm             utpt              RIMPt90st               cutput pr worker
Agriculture                        3.0t4    21.3            2.0  37.0               1.556       56.7
latestry                          4.491     31.3            1.3  24.1               3.545      133.0
elaiess                            6,801    47.4            2.1   36.9              3.122      117.6
7ltal/Awr ee                 14.345    100.0            5.4  200.0             2.654      IIIO.0
COWD2NENT FIUAME
Ce_erul Covernsent
ns nl% Sof COP
5ilr        1971-75     1970-SO     1961    8192      lost    1964
QArr.st Mselapta                      20.620         20.6        24.4      26.2    21.3    27.2    29.0
Currant Cemadiwrs.                     19.141        :4.9        30.3      24.4    20.0    23.6    26.7
Orreut Serplus                          1,679         0.6         1.2       3.8      1.3      3.6      2.3
Olrect tiaelnpmnt tupeeditures          S.]0          5.1         7.3      15.6    11.6       7.7      7.4
but tleding                             3.592         1.0         3.4       4.1      6.7      5.3      5.0
braiga lBrrowing (not)                 4.226          2.1         1.3       5.2      7.6      6.4      3.9
lWY r°IMIT ASe O r NiCES
2974     1975      1976      1971      1978      1979      1980      1981      1962      19163     O9RA
NULL.L. HNS outstading and pertod)
nony and qusi-ony                6,734    1001   12.771    34601    11,4h7    21.616    27.652    32.171    37J046    41.193    .5.070
lank Credit to itAlic
Sector (net)                    959     1,3113       22     1.213     1,017      -742       549     2.'92     3.902     3*.31     4.146
snk Credit to Prste
Sector                         5.275    6.07-    7.471      R.971    11,644    14.982    20.936    25,716    79,916    16.417    42.974
(Parcentage  or Index Iebaral
Homey and Q-eci-J_ny
as % of CDP                     31.1      44.6     05.5      46.n       4.1      47.9      53.1      51.7       1.S      00.6      599.4
Consawr Price Index
(150 - 100)                    69.8      32.0      65.7      67.9      92.0      96.5    200.0    109.7       116.1    120.4    125.1
AnuaL Phercantage
*-_.8. In Consumsr
Price Indet                     17.4       4.5      2.6       4.7       4.9       3.4       6.7       9.7       5.8       1.7       3.9
Seek Credit to PubLic
sector Cowt)                   69.4       30.9    -37.4      67.6     -16.2         *               317.5      73.7    -11.P       1 211.0
Sok  Credit to  rivter Serror     25.2     15.1      Z2.9      20.1      32.0      26.5      39.7      22.6      30.J      21.7      16.6
a  Hot applicable.
In In 1o70 prics.
lat:  All converlons to dollars In thLs table are at the overage erhanse rate presetting during the psrld covered.
Saptember 1985



ANNEX I
-.26 -                                    Page 6 of 6
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1982      1983       1984                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1934)
- -(US$ mlion)---                                           USS millLon       Z
Exports f.o.b.                 11,952    13,863    16,250         Rubber                         1,565         9.6
Imports f.o.b.                 12,464    13,160    14,233         Timber                         1,539         9.5
Nonfactor Services (net)       -1,616    -3,027    -2,177         Petroleum                      3,729        23.0
Resource Gap (deficit - -)    -2,218    -1,324        -160        Tln                              479         3.0
Factor Services (net)            -958    -1,548    -2,042         Palm Oil                       2,268        14.0
Net Transfers                     -33       -22        -22        All Other Goods                6,670        40.9
Balance on Current Account
(deficit - -)                -3,119    -2,894    -2,224                Total                  16,250      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       1,256     1,206        898
Net MLT Borrowing /a            2,597     2,133      2,063        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1984
Disbursements                   2,838     2,391      2,617
Amortization                      241       258        554                                                US$ Mln
Subtotal                     3,853     3,339      2,961        Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed            [1,872
Nonguaranteed Private Debt                3,933
Other Items n.e.i.               -931      -396       -657        Total Outstanding L Disbursed             15,805
Increase in Reserves (-)          197       -49        -80
International Reserves
(end year)                  4,021     4,102     4,109         DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 /b               Z
Fuel and Related Materials                                        Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed                7.9
Imports                             *         *          *        Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  4.0
Exports                             *         *          *        Total Outstanding & Disbursed               11.9
Of which:  Crude Petroleum   3,288      3,393      3,729
IBRD/IDA LENDING (SEPTEMBER 30, 1985)
(US$ mLllion)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                              IBRD
Average rate during period:                                       Outstanding & Disbursed                  807.04
Undisbursed                              482.46
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          1,289.50
M$ per USS            USS per MS
1974                    2.41                  0.41
1975                    2.40                  0.42
1976                    2.54                  0.39
1977                    2.46                  0.41
1978                    2.32                  0.43
1979                    2.19                  0.46
1980                    2.18                  0.46
1981                    2.10                  0.43
1982                    2.34                  0.43
1983                    2.12                  0.43
1984                    2.34                  0.43
* not available.
/a Public/publicly guaranteed debt only.
/b  Incerest and amortization payments as a proportion of total earnings from exports or goods and services.
September 1985



ANNEX II
- 27-                              Page-  o  2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS /a
As of September 30, 1985
Amount in US$ million
Loan                                                                    (less cancellations)
no.    Year       Borrower                  Purpose                    Bank      Undisbursed
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                         867.66
1376    1977   Malaysia              Highway (III)                        35.00        4.79
1444    1977   Malaysia              Nat'l Small-Scale Irrigation         39.00        1.84
1493    1978   Malaysia              National Extension                   19.00        1.89
1590    1978   Malaysia              FELDA VI Land Settlement             28.00        3.67
1632    1978   Malaysia              Krian-Sungei Nanik Agri. Dev.        26.50        0.27
1717    1979   Malaysia              Muda II Irrigation                   31.00       10.83
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (IX)                            50.00        4.41
1899    1980   Malaysia              Kelantan Land Scheme Rehab.          25.00       21.03
1957    1981   Malaysia              Rompin-Endau Area Dev.               40.00       24.74
1960    1981   Malaysia              Trans-Perak Area Dev.                50.00       39.58
2013    1981   Malaysia               FELCRA I                             37.00      24.60
2145    1982   Malaysia               Industrial Training (Educ VI)       40.60       34.45
2146    1982   Nat'l Elec. Board    Rural Electrification (Pover X)    86.30          39.85
2147    1982   Malaysia              Malacca Agri. Development            25.40       19.05
2220    1983   Malaysia               Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    56.90        47.57
2291    1983   Malaysia              Sabah-Saravak Road                   86.22       86.00
2438    1984   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (XI)                            70.00       69.78
2471    1985   Malaysia               Small-Scale Enterprises             52.10       48.11
Total Loans (less cancellation) /b                             1,665.68
of which has been repaid                                       332.29
Total now outstanding                                          1,333.39
Amount sold                     43.89
of which has been repaid                                        43.89
Total loans now held by Bank /b                                1,289.50
Total undisbursed                                                            482.46
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Excludes Loan 2530-MA, FELDA Palm Oil Mills Project, US$31.2 million approved on
May 7, 1985; Loan 2550-MA, Sabah Forestry Technical Assistance Project, US$6.5 million
approved on May 21, 1985; and Loan 2601-MA, Second Industrial Training Project,
US$73.3 million approved on July 2, 1985. None of these loans were effective as of
September 30, 1985. Subsequently, Loan 2530-MA became effective on October 28, 1985
and Loan 2601-MA on November 1, 1985.



-28-                          ANNEX II
-Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
As of September 30, 1985
Amount in
Type of            US$ million
Year             Obligor                   business       Loan    Equity  Total
1964-74   Malysian Industrial Devel-       Financing          -    1.94    1.94
opment Finance Ltd. (MIDF)
1985      SEAVI-MA                         Money and          -    1.00    1.00
Capital Mkt.
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.                Cement          1.28    0.28    1.56
1968-69   Malayawata Steel Ltd.            Steel           2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.   Textiles         1.25    0.25    1.50
1985      Pacific Hardwoods                Pulp and        9.97    1.53   11.50
Paper Prod.
Total Gross Commitment                          14.95    6.24   21.19
Less: repayments, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off               4.98    3.71    8.69
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                9.97    2.53   12.50
Total Undisbursed                                4.97    0.41    5.38



ANNEX III
-29 -                            Page I
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section r: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                      2 years
(b)  Project preparation agency:                       FELDA/FPWD
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and
Bank consideration thereof:                     November 1982
td)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission            April 1, 1985
ze)  Date of completion of negotiations:               November 5, 1985
Cf)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    March 24, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) FPWD would employ consultants, under terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank (i) to assist SPWDs and FRUs in construction supervision
of waterworks and roads and (ii) by June 30, 1986 to assist in the
organization of FRU construction supervision units and training of
SPWD supervisory staff (para. 48);
(b) After construction all project roads would be gazetted as federal
roads and maintenance would be financed by the Federal Government
through Annual budgetary allocations to the states and FRUs
responsible for their maintenance (para. 49);
(c) The Government would ensure that (i) promptly after construction,
water supply works and equipment would be transferred to the
respective state governments for operation, maintenance and finance;
and (ii) the states would adequately staff the systems and operate
and maintain them (para. 50);
(d) The Government would: Ci) establish a training unit for operators
and technicians of water supply systems in the State of Pahang;
(ii) staff, fund and operate the unit during the first three years
after establishment; (iii) by June 30, 1987, employ under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, two internationally recruited



ANNEX III
- 30 -                          Page 2
advisors each for a period of at Least 24 months, to assist ini the
establishment and initial operation of the training unit; and
(iv) cause the State of Pahang to participate in the establishment
and initial operation of the unic, and to assume full management and
financial responsibility after the third year of operations
(para. 51);
(e) The Federal Government would take steps to obtain that for schemes
settled after December 31, 1986, the States of Pahang and Johor
would limit the amount of free water to settlers during the early
settlement period to a volume sufficient to meet basic needs, as
determined by FPWD, and such amount shall not exceed 18,000
liters/month/family (para. 56); and
(f) The Federal Government would implement the project in accordance
with appropriate environmental standards (para. 63).



r da.                 ii..                  idr                   'Jr                    ukd
~~ - ,  >\       .. <                                   ~~~~~~~~~~M A L A Y S I A
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
AK. iA:                                                               PmOPMDMabNO.CWATEFtfMU
AW             __ THAILAND                                                   CI J PAU ZOOM
~MM OLAWAZ1
>   w@3KED^H |    ;   t?\ T                        z~~~~~~~~~~~ cocoA aMini
t. PINAN                                                                   R !  t A- \O UN A
^    /     /   K~~IEIANtAN                                 W om\ --- blN^nt  s
; s </ / PERK                                M 9cu)lENCCN 
/ t~~~~~G >          -ooA                    C2Al  K-oA M M
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A r,.,AH
INDONESI\ AI;AkA
ER^U~~~~~~~~Kh
-... -.2-  ;                                                                      0 94/
,INDON;E§...                               b_         _  ,_k-  A__._           _  _  _ \  _  _ _   _ _.-
-    ' '- ' -: -: . .   -.  t                       X t5S/.JO O
*c  ,  L  s-ll ;' 4 ' -' ' ' ' e 1 . /< ;o, \ tla
, ,§ ~~~~i _0   ._.._:I tfS 
:c






