Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15188
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 2642-MA )
DECEMBER 22, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department 1
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
(Malaysian Ringgit per US$)
Year                 Exchange Rate
1985 (Appraisal)          2.50
1986                      2.58
1987                      2.52
1988                      2.62
1989                      2.71
1990                      2.70
1991                      2.75
1992                      2.55
1993 (Completion)         2.57
ABBREVIATIONS
EMS             -         Estate Management System
FELDA           -         Federal Land Development Authority
FRU             -         Federal PWD Regional Units for FELDA Works
O&M             -         Operation and Maintenance
PWD (JKR)       -         Public Works Department (Jabatan Kerja Raya)
SPWD            -         State Public Works Department
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLYV
The World Bank
Washington, D C 20433
USA
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 22, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malaysia
Land Settlement Infrastructure Project (Loan 2642-MA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Malaysia Land Settlement Infrastructure
project (Loan 2642-MA, approved in FY86). Parts I and Ill were prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office and Part II by the Borrower.
The objective of the project was to assist the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) and
the Public Works Department (PWD) provide basic infrastructure for FELDA's land development program,
whichi settled low income rural households on land planted to oil paln and rubber. The project financed a
five vear (1986-91 ) time slice of FELDA's development program comprising 292 km of access roads, 436
km of village roads and 14 bridges to serve schemes comprising 218.000 ha of oil palm and 57.000 ha of
rubber, accommodatinig about 26,000 settler and worker families. Six water supply systems wcre also
developed. The project also included funding for a training center for water supply workers in the two
principal states covered by the project (Johor and Pahanig). and technical assistance to PWD to hielp improve
the design and maintenance of rural roads.
The construction program was completed withi some delay, primarily as a result of the construction
boom in Malaysia in the late 1980s, which rapidly increased the demand for skilled labor and materials in
the major cities and placed contractors operating in remote rural areas at a disadvantage. Several contracts
collapsed and had to be retendered. As a result of general econoinic growthi and increased opportunities.
there was diminished interest amonig the rural poor in resettling in the areas FELDA was developing, and
the Government, therefore, decided to terminate the program of land development. FELDA reduced the
size of some planned settlemenlts and decided to operate some areas as plantations. The water supply
schemes were successfully installed and the technical assistance had a significanit institutional impact.
Settler incomes are reported to average almost US$5,000 per year, close to appraisal estimates. The re-
estimated economic rates of return (ERRs) for a sample of the schemes range from zero to 50 percent
(weighted average 1 7 percent), compared to 14-26 percent (weighted average 19 percent) estimated at
appraisal. Sustainability is rated as likely, institutionial development as modest and the outcome of the
project as satisfactory.
The PCR does not comment on the environimelntal impact of the project. but otherwvise provides an
adequate account of project implementation. The Borrower, in Part 11, emphasizes the problems resulting
from the construction boom. No audit is planied.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
Land Settlement Infrastructure Project (Loan 2642-MA)
Table of Contents
Pacre
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project  Identity   .1....          .      ..  .   ..  .   .  ..  .   ..  .   .  ..  .   .     . .
Background   ......                                           .                                 1
Project Objectives and Description   ....  .                    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   2
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Project  Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Project Sustainability ...................... . 10
Bank Performance ......................... . 10
Borrower Performance ....................... . 10
Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Consulting Services ........................ . 11
Project Documentation and Data .................. . 11
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
PART III:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Related Bank Loans   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Project Timetable  .....            ..   .      ..  .   ..  .   ..  .    ..  .   .  ..  .   .   .  21
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . 22
Project  Implementation   ....  .               .  .  ..  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 23
Project Cost and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Project Results  .....            ..    ..   .      ..   .   ..   ..   .   ..   ..   .   ..   .   .  27
Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
MAP IBRD 18997R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






Protect Completion Report
MALAYSIA
Land Settlement Infrastructure Protect (Loan 2642-MA)
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the Land
Settlement Infrastructure Project in Malaysia, for which Loan 2642-MA in the
amount of US$50.0 million was approved on December 10, 1985. The Loan closed
as scheduled on June 30, 1993.   The last disbursement was made on November
17, 1993, and the undisbursed balance of US$3.5 million was cancelled on that
date.
The Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by
the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division of the Country Department
I, East Asia and Pacific Region. Preparation of Parts I and III by the Bank
was based, inter alia, on the findings of a PCR mission in September 1993;
data on project implementation and agricultural development furnished by the
Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) and Public Works Department (PWD);
the Staff Appraisal Report No 5804-MA dated November 15, 1985; the Loan
Agreement dated January 10, 1986; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower; and Bank supervision reports and project files. Part II of the PCR
was prepared by FELDA and PWD, the implementing agencies for the project.
The Bank wishes to thank the management and staff of FELDA and PWD for
their cooperation and assistance in preparing this PCR.






-iii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (LOAN 2642-MA)
Evaluation Summarv
Project Obiectives
1.   The project was to help the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA)
and the Public Works Department (PWD) provide basic infrastructure (roads and
water supply) for the Government's land settlement schemes. It was expected
that the infrastructure would: (a) raise incomes and improve the living
standards of about 26,000 settler families; (b) bring about agricultural
development of and production from about 105,000 ha of tree crops in
Peninsular Malaysia; (c) provide drinking water to about 150,000 people in
settlement villages; (d) improve PWD's civil works construction supervision
and O&M practices; (e) improve water consumption practices in FELDA settlement
villages; and (f) help the Government overcome fiscal and balance of payments
constraints.
Implementation Experience
2.   Project implementation was generally satisfactory but was delayed by
about two years due to budget constraints and poor contractor performance.
Changes in Government land settlement policy also affected project scope and
development impact. Due to rapid industrialization drawing labor away from
the rural areas with the consequent reduction in the availability of settlers,
the Government decided in 1989 that FELDA settlement schemes, where settler
emplacement had not begun by December 31, 1989, would remain with FELDA and be
managed on a commercial basis, rather than be transferred to settler families.
The land/man ratio was also increased three fold with a reduction of
settler/worker families on about 50% of the schemes served by project works.
As a result, construction of villages was scaled down and fewer village roads
and other infrastructure facilities were built under the project. Water
production and distribution mains wer(, however, substantially unchanged.
Further, construction and commissioning of a training center for water supply
operators was delayed considerably due to budget constraints and continuous
changes in the Government's training policy.
3.   Some 728 km of roads and 14 bridges were financed under the project.
Of the road total, 292 km were access roads and 436 km village roads. While
the total road length was 14% less than projected at appraisal (843 km),
access roads increased by 54% and village roads decreased by about one third.
Additional access roads were made possible principally due to lower
construction costs in 1986 and 1987. The decrease in village roads was due to
the new settlement policy adopted in 1989 (para. 2). PWD hired two road
construction specialists, each for 36 months, to assist in enhancing road
construction standards and construction supervision with satisfactory results.



- iv-
4.   Except for fewer village reticulation works, the water supply component
remained substantially unchanged as seven treatment plants, 90 km of
distribution mains and a training center were completed as expected at
appraisal. However, PWD did not hire water supply training specialists because
completion and commissioning of the training center took place after loan
closing.
5.   Actual project costs of US$ 95.6 million were close to the appraisal
estimate of US$ 97.4 million. Of the total, US$ 73.6 million, or 77%, was for
road construction, compared to US$ 71.7 million estimated at appraisal, and
US$ 22.1 million, or 14.2%, was for water supply, compared to US$ 25.7 million
estimated at appraisal. Water supply construction expenditures were lower
than estimated at appraisal due to a reduction in village reticulation works.
Results
6.   Overall the project was satisfactory, and project re-ults were in line
with appraisal expectations, except for a reduced social impact due to lower
number of settlers. The project's institutional impact was partial. Because
of substantially more access roads constructed under the project than expected
at appraisal (para. 3), the agricultural area in FELDA schemes served by
access roads (277,000 ha) is much larger than that envisaged at appraisal
(105,000 ha). Of the total area, 218,500 ha (79%) are planted with oil palm,
56,700 ha (20%) with rubber and 1,800 ha (1%) with cocoa. Most plantations
are reaching maturity and generally have good stands. Oil palm yields, while
lower than those projected at appraisal, are satisfactory. However, they tend
to be lower in hilly areas such as the Sungai Aring complex in Kelantan.
Development of the agricultural areas served by the project is benefiting some
21,800 settler and worker families (compared to 26,000 expected at appraisal)
by providing land and employment. Water treatment and distribution works are
providing drinking water to some 75,000 settlers, workers, Government
officials and others living in the six settlement complexes served by these
works. The number of beneficiaries (75,000) for water works is much less than
that expected at appraisal (150,000) due to the change in settlement policy in
1989 (para. 2). With the high palm oil and rubber prices in 1994 and early
1995, net incomes for settlers in FELDA schemes average over RM1,000
(US$400)/month, ranging from RM700 to [,500/month, which is close to appraisal
estimates.   Water consumption practices are expected to be considerably
improved as settlers are required to pay water charges at the same level as
other users. Water meters were already in place in two of the six complexes
by the end of the project and actions were being taken to install meters in
the other complexes. The improvement in O&M standards of water works sought
by the project is expected to be facilitated by the training center
established under the project. Technical assistance provided to the PWD for
raising civil works construction standards had a significant institutional
impact.
7.   Overall, the project at completion is considered economically viable.
However, the economic rate of return (ERR) varies considerably among
complexes. Of the 31 complexes served by project access and village roads and
water works, five with the least favorable agronomic and infrastructure
conditions were chosen for economic re-evaluation, following appraisal



- v
methodology. The ERR ranged from over 50% for one complex (Bukit Sagu) to
over 20%- for two others (Chiku and Tembangau), 2% for Bera Selatan, and
negative for Sungai Aring. These results show that appraisal expectations
were overly optimistic for Sungai Aring (21%) and Bera Selatan (15%) and
conservative for Bukit Sagu (26%) While Sungai Aring has the least favorable
agronomic conditions, Bera Selatan required relatively high infrastructure
construction and had delayed agricultural development. The economic analysis
of these complexes points to the fact that FELDA was increasingly moving into
marginal areas in the last years of its development program. New land
development by FELDA was stopped about three years ago.
Sustainabilitv
8.   Project sustainability is likely.  In addition to competent management,
efficient production and marketing, and favorabxe prices, an efficient road
network is a key factor for sustainabilitv of FELDA schemes. FELDA's
management, production and marketing systems have proven lo be successful.
While world prices for rubber and palm oil are projected by the Bank to be
much lower in the long term compared to those at appraisal, those prices
should be adequate to sustain most of the complexes. However, FELDA should
carefully review the financial viability of complexes such as Sungai Aring and
Bera Selatan, and take appropriate actior.s. Sustainability of the road
network would depend on the establishment of adequate financial and O&M
mechanisms, which Malaysia should have no difficulty achieving. Provision of
high quality water supply to settlers, plantation workers and staf. will be an
important factor in maintaining adequate living standards and sustainability
of FELDA schemes. This will depend on the commitment and efficiency of State
water authorities in improving operations and maintenance of these facilities,
as O&M and collection of water charges is a State responsibility. With the
installation of water meters in all six complexes and payment of water charges
by settlers at the same rates as other users (para. 6), revenues are expected
to accrue to the States. However, it is not clear at this stage whether these
revenues will be sufficient to ensure an appropriate level of O&M or State
subsidies will be required.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.        The main findings and lessons learned are as follows:
(a) Adjustment in project design in line with changes in economic and
social circumstances is beneficial: with rapid industrialization
and outmigration of the rural population of Malaysia, there was an
appropriate change in FELDA'S land development and settlement
policies and adjustment of infrastructure construction (PCR, para.
5.2).
(b) Construction of rural water supply treatment plants, which are
relatively small, should be contracted under a single civil works
and equipment supply and erection contract for better coordination
and timely project implementation (PCR, para. 5.9).



-vi-
(c) Performance of consulting firms hired under the project to raise
construction standards was not satisfactory in all cases because
some of them were not fully qualified for the job. Improved
selection procedures and better financial terms should help to
overcome this problem (PCR, para. 11.1).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (LOAN 2642-MA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identitv
Name           Land Settlement Infrastructure Project
Loan Number   2642-MA
RVP Unit       East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country        Malaysia
Sector         Agriculture and Infrastructure
2.    Background
2.1       FELDA.  The Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) was
established in 1956 as a statutory body attached to the Ministry of Lands.
Since its inception, FELDA played a major role in addressing the Government's
poverty alleviation program through the development and planting of State
lands primarily with rubber and oil palm for settlement by poor rural
families. FELDA's integrated program involved land development and
smallholder settlement in group farming schemes that included community
organization, management, roads, village infrastructure, water supply
facilities, agricultural extension, inputs, credit, processing, marketing and
other services. For its development services and downstream activities (such
as palm oil fruit processing, transport and marketing) FELDA established
several subsidiary corporations and entered into joint venture arrangements
with the private sector since 1972. To construct access roads and village
infrastructure, which are financed by Federal grants, FELDA relied on the
Public Works Department (PWD).
2.2       By the time of project apprnisal in 1984, FELDA had developed and
planted around 404,000 ha with oil palm (66W), 188,00 ha with rubber (30%) and
some 23,000 ha (4%) with cocoa and sugar cane. It had also emplaced about
88,000 settler families. However, delays in the construction of access roads
and village infrastructure needed to transport inputs and produce and to
settle families in newly developed schemes were a significant constraint.
2.3       Management of the FELDA infrastructure program was the
responsibility of special units within the PWD's Roads, Water Supply and other
branches at the central level. In addition, the PWD established four regional
units (FRU) to construct access and village roads, water supply and other
rural infrastructure for FELDA, the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA) and other statutory agencies' land
development schemes. State PWDs (SPWD) and FRUs were responsible for
maintaining roads with Federal funding, while the State PWD water divisions
were responsible for operating, maintaining and financing water supply
systems.



-2-
2.4       Design and construction standards of FELDA works were generally
satisfactory and often above what was required. On the other hand, the
supervision of construction was not very tight due to PWD administrative
constraints in finding the required number of qualified staff for the job.
Road maintenance, while much better than in many countries, was affected by
inadequate funding. Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of FELDA water supply
facilities was less than satisfactory due to the lack of qualified middle and
lower level technicians and financial weakness of State water divisions.
FELDA settlers were given unlimited amounts of free drinking water which
resulted in considerable water waste, and State water divisions received
little or no revenue from water fees.
2.5       Bank Involvement and Project Origin.  As of 1984, the Bank had
supported FELDA through six loans for tree crop development (primarily oil
palm and rubber). Those projects had been highly satisfactory, and through
their implementation the Bank significantly contr:buted to FELDA's
institutional development. Land development was frequentlv hindered by delays
in the construction of access and village roads and permanent water supply
systems, which in previous projects had not been financed by the Bank. During
FELDA-Bank discussions in 1983, it was agreed that the most effective way for
the Bank to further support FELDA was by providing assistance to critical
components (palm oil mills, roads and water supply facilities) in its
settlement program on a time-slice basis, rather than financing individual
schemes. The FELDA Palm Oil Mills Project (Loan 2530-MA), which closed in
June 1991, was a first step in this direction. The Land Settlement
Infrastructure Project provided complementary support for roads and water
supply facilities.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1       Project Objectives.  The project objectives were to support the
Government's land settlement program by assisting FELDA and PWD in providing
basic infrastructure for ongoing land settlement schemes. The project was
expected to: (a) raise incomes and living standards of about 26,000 settler
families; (b) bring about agricultural development of and production from
about 105,000 ha of tree crops, primarily oil palm and rubber, in Peninsular
Malaysia; (c) provide drinking water t) about 150,000 people in settlement
villages; (d) improve PWD's civil works construction supervision and water
works O&M standards; (e) improve water consumption practices in FELDA
settlement villages; and (f) assist the Government in overcoming fiscal and
balance of payments constraints.
3.2       Project Components.  The Project included:  (a) construction of 190
km of access roads, 650 km of village roads and 18 bridges in FELDA schemes in
Peninsular Malaysia; (b) completion of seven permanent rural water supply
systems, including intakes, treatment plants, conveyance mains, reservoirs and
reticulation mains, in six large settlement complexes, and provision of
operation and maintenance vehicles for some 44 settlement schemes in the
States of Johor and Pahang; and (c) construction of a training center and
development and implementation of a training program and technical assistance
for rural water supply operators.



3.3       The project was to be implemented over a five-year period from
early 1986 to early 1992. The closing date was set at June 30, 1993.
3.4       Road Construction.  The project included construction of access and
village roads and bridges in twenty settlement complexes 1/ comprising some
110,000 ha and 25 settler villages. At appraisal, project roads were
tentatively identified on the basis of FELDA plans, but were subject to change
during implementation. Roads were to be constructed to PWD rural road
standards. Access roads were to link agricultural areas and villages with
processing facilities and the national road network. The average daily traffic
(ADT) of access roads at full development was estimated at 100 to 250
vehicles--primarily passenger and service vehicl2s; trucks transporting
agricultural inputs, oil palm fruits and rubber; and palm oil tankers.
Village roads provided the transport system within settler villages. A
typical 2000 ha settlement scheme required about 10 km of village roads,
considering some 500 houselots of 0.1 ha, staff housing and public areas.
Settler villages usually grouped together settler familie-1 from four or more
settlement schemes from the same settlement complex. Village roads had an
estimated ADT of less than 100 vehicles. All roads were to be laterite
surfaced.
3.5       The project sought to: (a) reduce road formation width and improve
road alignments to reduce earthworks, minimize environmental damage and reduce
cost; (b) improve road surface drainage; and (c) improve road construction
practices and maintenance. To improve maintenance, all FELDA roads were to be
gazetted as Federal roads making them eligible for Federal maintenance grants.
3.6       Road Technical Assistance and Training.  The project included the
hiring of two specialists in Road Construction and Construction Materials to
assist PWD in the organization of road construction supervision and laboratory
units and supervision of construction of project roads.   In addition, PWD was
required to employ local engineering consultants for design and construction
supervision of roads outside the responsibility of the FRUs.
3.7       Water Supply Works.  The project included replacement of temporary
works and completion of partially constructed rural water supply systems for
six FELDA settlement complexes with a projected population close to 150,000
people (five of those settlement complexes were also to be provided with road
works under the project). The project was not expected to introduce major
changes to design parameters but was to focus on improving O&M through
training and elimination of water waste.  The water supply divisions of the
States of Johor and Pahang were to limit free water supply to settlers during
the development period of the settlement schemes (para. 2.4) to an amount
sufficient to meet basic needs not to exceed 18,000 liters per month per
family. Moreover, all household connections were to be equipped with water
meters. Village roads and water reticulation pipes were to be constructed
simultaneously by the same contractor to avoid destruction of road embankments
and to reduce costs.
1/ A settlement complex is a large land development area comprising 5 to 15
schemes each with an average area of 2,000 ha.



-4-
3.8       The water supply works to be constructed included: (a) seven
permanent water intakes, treatment and pumping plants and associated works
with a combined capacity of 32.3 million liters per day; (b) 90 km of
distribution mains with diameters ranging from 150 mm to 400 mm; (c) eight
service and balancing reservoirs with a total volume of 76.4 million liters;
(d) one booster pumping station; and (e) reticulation systems, household
connections and water meters for nine villages. The project also provided
funds for vehicles for water works' operation and maintenance.
3.9       Water Supply Training.  This component aimed at establishing PWD
in-house capability to satisfy training needs of medium and junior level staff
on O&M of water supply facilities in the State of Pahang. Similar
complementary training facilities were to be provided for the State of Johor
under the Johor Water Supply Project (Loan 2654-MA). The project included
construction of a Training Center in Pahang for water supply operators and 48
staff-months of technical assistance for training of trainers and initial
operation of the Center. The Federal Government was to f nd construction of
the Center through FELDA's budget and the State of Pahang was to operate it.
4.    Project DesiQn and OrQanization
4.1       Overall, the project concept and objectives were clear, and the
design and scope of project components were well suited to the prevailing
needs of FELDA settlement schemes. As this was a time slice operation and
Bank experience with FELDA's development approach had been very satisfactory,
the project did not attempt to introduce major planning, technical or
managerial changes. From the planning perspective, it was designed to
accelerate the construction of basic infrastructure required to bring about
agricultural benefits and provide suitable conditions for settler emplacement.
Technically, the project focused on enhancing design and construction
standards to alleviate environmental damage and to reduce costs. Project
preparation, which spanned a period of two years, was adequate. Considerable
time was devoted to the review of engineering design criteria and preparation
of construction drawings. Bank staff and consultants were involved in project
preparation and appraisal.
4.2       Organization.  PWD was made responsible for design and construction
of engineering works under existing arrangements. Special units at the Road
and Water Supplies branches were made responsible for planning, design and
procurement of construction contracts at the central level. FRUs at Temerloh
(Pahang), Bahau (Negeri Sembilan) and Kota Tingi (Johor) were to carry out
construction of all water works and the bulk of the road program. State PWDs
(SPWD) were responsible for construction of minor road projects in schemes not
served by FRUs. PWD was required to employ consultants for engineering design
and construction supervision of all water works and roads outside federal PWD
regional offices. This organization was maintained over the life of the
project and worked well.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1       Project implementation was affected by several factors.  A decrease
in public investment in Malaysia in the recessionary years of 1986 and 1987



-5-
resulted in lower budgetary allocations for the project and slowdown in
implementation. However, the recession also resulted in lower construction
prices, which allowed the inclusion of additional access roads in the project
making use of cost savings. Due to the recession, the number of contractors
seeking work with public agencies increased significantly. Many contracts
were awarded to unqualified and poorly equipped and financed contractors, who
relied almost exclusively on subcontractors .2/ With the economic recovery
of 1988 and the starting of construction of the North-South Highway,
construction costs rose and unqualified contractors were unable to perform,
which resulted in a large number of contract failures. Due to legal and
administrative constraints, termination of failed contracts took a long time,
which delayed retendering and adversely affected the pace of project
implementation.
5.2       In 1989, the Government fundamentally changed FELDA's land
development policy and program. All FELDA schemes that had not been settled
by December 31, 1989 were to remain with FELDA under a newly established
Estate Management System (EMS). Under this system, settlers would no longer
be granted land ownership. Settler workers would earn daily wages or be paid
on a piecework basis. The land/man ratio was increased three fold from 4
ha/family to 12 ha/family. The housing lot size was reduced from 1,000
m2/settler family to 450 M2. This new policy drastically reduced the required
village size and length of village roads. Village road construction in 10
schemes operating under EMS was excluded from the project.
5.3       Road Construction.   Implementation of the road construction
program was substantially completed by the end of 1992, although four
contracts spilled over to 1993. As a result of the factors described in para.
5.2, the mix of access and village roads changed. When construction prices
fell in 1987, an additional 120 km of primarily access roads in additional
settlement schemes were identified for inclusion in the project. At the
introduction of EMS, about 180 km of village road projects were excluded.
Other roads were dropped for economic reasons, or because construction would
have begun at a time close to project completion. In the end, the total
length of roads financed by the project decreased by 14% from 843 km projected
at appraisal to 728 km. While access roads increased by 54%, from 189 km to
292 km, village roads decreased by ab_ut one third from 654 km to 436 km. The
number of long-span bridges decreased by four to 14.
5.4       Implementation of the road program entailed significant procurement
work and Bank involvement therein. Construction contracts ranging in value
from US$2 million to US$5 million were procured under ICB procedures but
foreign bidders, although eligible, did not participate. ICB standard
documents for civil works prepared under the project were eventually adopted
for use in all Bank projects in Malaysia. The majority of road works were
carried out through small contracts procured under LCB procedures. LCB
usually attracted a significant number of bids (up to 25) with a wide range of
prices. This, coupled with the lack of consistent bid evaluation and contract
2/ PWD disagrees with this statement. For details, see Part II, paras. 17-19
and tabular clarifications/explanations.



-6-
award criteria, led to contract award problems and contract failures, and was
a source of disagreement between PWD and the Bank. A continued PWD-Bank
dialogue on this matter led PWD to develop a bidder postqualification system
currently being tested in locally-financed projects.
5.5       Road Maintenance.  Road maintenance continued to be affected by
lack of adequate funding, and this problem was not resolved during project
implementation. In line with the Loan Agreement, some 4,560 km of FELDA roads
were gazetted as Federal roads by project completion, making them eligible for
Federal maintenance grants, but road maintenance grants did not increase
correspondingly. As PWD gives priority to highway maintenance, funds for
FELDA roads have been generally insufficient and maintenance is generally
lacking. In general, roads under the responsibility of FRUs are better
maintained than those under SPWDs, as these units can draw on development
funds for maintenance, and are also better equipped to carry out the work. In
retrospect, gazetting FELDA roads as Federal roads did not resolve the funding
problem. FELDA and PWD are studying other options such as sharing
responsibilities between the two agencies. This would make PWD responsible
for maintenance of major access roads serving large settlement complexes and
FELDA for minor access and village roads. A major factor causing destruction
of access roads, which requires control by FELDA and PWD, has been unchecked
traffic of overloaded timber trucks. At project completion, FELDA and PWD
carried out independent field inspections to ascertain the status of road
maintenance. FELDA concluded that about 36% of the road length was generally
in good condition (design speed could be maintained 90% of the time), 53% were
in fair condition (design speed could be maintained 60% of the time), and 11t
in poor condition (design speed could not be consistently maintained;
frequent slow down and stops required). PWD results using the same parameters
were respectively 83%, 17% and 0%. The difference in results is a reflection
of the respective road user and constructor roles of the two agencies. The
underlying conclusion is that despite budget constraints, not less than 90% of
project financed roads are in operating condition.
5.6       At appraisal, asphalt pavement of FELDA roads was not justifiable
on the basis of traffic. However, FELDA opted for gradually providing asphalt
pavement to access and selected village roads, when plantations generated
traffic peaks. About 213 km of projec--financed roads were asphalt paved,
mostly with local funds. In view of severe weather conditions and the fact
that reliable maintenance is seldom available, asphalt pavement and higher
construction standards contribute to greater road stability, less maintenance
requirement and traffic cost savings. These factors, while not easily
quantifiable, should be considered in the design of future projects.
5.7       Road Technical Assistance and Training.  Implementation of this
component was very satisfactory. PWD retained two specialists on Road
Construction and Road Materials, each for an initial two-year period, from May
1987 to May 1989, which was later extended for another year. The Road
Construction specialist focused on construction supervision. The Road
Materials Specialist focused on testing and quality control. Their
assignments covered the whole spectrum of PWD roads with emphasis on
implementation of the FELDA road program. The specialists reviewed existing
PWD design standards and specifications, made recommendations and drafted a



"Construction Supervision Manual" and "Guidelines for Inspection and Testing
of Road Works". They also trained PWD staff on the application of the
manuals, assisted PWD in redrafting construction specifications, and carried
out field inspections to the project and other road construction sites. PWD
has adopted the two manuals for use in all road projects.
5.8       Water Supply Works.  The scope of the water works component was not
substantially changed by the reduction in the number of settler villages. As
construction was already underway, it was not possible to adjust the design
capacity of water intakes, treatment plants and other main structures to the
reduced water demand, but the length of village reticulation system and mains
decreased. The water supply systems included in Lhe project were substantially
completed by the end of 1993, and were commissioned and transferred, or were
in the process of being transferred, to the States for operation and
maintenance. As a result of the reduction in the number of settler villages,
some of the treatment plants and water works will have surplus installed
capacity, but this surplus could be used to meet other de-ands in rural areas.
5.9       Implementation of the water supply component was particularly
affected by the factors mentioned in para. 5.1, and it was completed about
three years behind schedule. While procurement and award of works
construction and equipment supply contracts started early during project
implementation, some contracts were not implemented due to budget constraints
and had to be retendered. Another major cause of delay was the lack of a
mechanism to coordinate construction of civil works and supply of equipment
for treatment plants. As construction contracts failed and equipment could
not be installed and/or commissioned, suppliers were neither paid on delivery,
nor compensated for protection, storage and other expenses. Equipment
installed in partially completed buildings was exposed to weather and
vandalism. These factors resulted in default of some suppliers and further
delays. In retrospect, it would have been more effective to combine the
construction of works and supply, erection and commissioning of equipment for
water treatment plants and subsidiary installations into one contract.
Another problem causing delay was that the termination and, consequently,
retendering of failed construction and supply contracts took a long time
(para. 5.1). One reason for this could have been the high turnover of water
supplies staff, which affected decision making.
5.10      Water Supply Traininq.  Implementation of this component was
affected by changes in national training policy. The focus of the Pahang
Center was changed from training of medium and junior level water supply
operators in the State of Pahang to a regional facility for training water
production operators from the States of Pahang, Kelantan and Trengganu. As a
result, the training center was expanded to a capacity several times greater
than that envisaged at project appraisal. Construction was delayed by about
two years and the Center was completed only in late 1993. Due to this delay,
technical assistance under this component was not implemented. In December
1993, PWD's Federal Training and Research Institute (IKRAM) took over the
center, and 12 personnel were officially deployed to the Center. The first
training course began in April 1994. It is expected that IKRAM will continue
to make use of experienced PWD water supplies specialists as guest trainers



-8-
and draw from the experience and expertise available at the Johor Training
Center established under the Johor Water Supply Project (Loan 2654-MA).
5.11      Project Costs.  Actual Project costs were US$ 95.6 million (RM
193.9 million) compared to US$ 97.4 million (RM 243.4 million) estimated at
appraisal. of the total, US$ 73.6 million was for road construction (77%),
compared to US$ 71.7 million estimated at appraisal, and US$ 22.1 million was
for water supply (23%), compared to US$ 25.7 million estimated at appraisal.
5.12      Loan Amendments/Cancellations.  The Loan Agreement was amended
three times. The first amendment (August 1987) expanded the project
description to include studies related to settlement projects in Malaysia.
Under this amendment, the Loan financed consulting services for the
environmental impact assessment (EIA) of the Sabah Land Settlement and
Environmental Management Project (Loan 3039-MA). The EIA provided the basis
for the environmental component included in that project. The other two
amendments were for reallocation of Loan proceeds.
6.    Project Results
6.1       Although implementation was delayed, overall project results were
satisfactory. The economic development objective of providing infrastructure
to land development schemes was achieved. The social objective of providing
land to poor farmers under FELDA's land settlement program was only partially
met, as some of the schemes will be commercial plantations where land will not
be alienated to settler workers (para. 5.2). This difference was primarily in
response to Malaysia's changing economic and social environment, and did not
entail a shift of Government policy away from poverty alleviation. The
project also made technical contributions to the FELDA rural roads and water
supply programs.
6.2       For road construction, the project contributed to the improvement
of design and construction standards. Vertical and horizontal road alignments
in rolling areas were determined, where possible, with the objective of
minimizing earth movement and erosion. The employment of consultants for
construction supervision generally contributed to quality. The work carried
out by the two road construction specialists made a valuable contribution as
regards specifications, supervision practices and road materials testing.
6.3       For water works, the project contributed primarily to the
improvement of construction methods. For example, in contrast with previous
practice, which entailed separate contracts for village roads and water
reticulation works, these two items were constructed simultaneously under a
single contract. This eliminated unnecessary destruction of road formation and
lowered costs. Water consumption practices are expected to be considerably
improved as settlers are required to pay water charges at the same level as
other users. Water meters were already in place in two of the six complexes
by the end of the project and actions were being taken to install meters in
the other complexes. The improvement in O&M standards of water works sought
by the project is expected to be facilitated by the Pahang Training Center for
water supply operators, established under the project. The Center will
enhance water treatment and distribution practices in Northeast Malaysia.



- 9-
6.4       Project Benefits.  Because of the substantially more access roads
constructed under the project than expected at appraisal (para. 5.3), the
agricultural area in FELDA schemes served by access roads (277,000 ha) is much
larger than that envisaged at appraisal (105,000 ha). Of the total area,
218,500 ha (79%) are planted with oil palm, 56,700 ha (20%) with rubber and
1,800 (1%) with cocoa. Most plantations are reaching maturity and generally
have good stands. Oil palm yields, while lower than those projected at
appraisal, are satisfactory. However, they tend to be lower in hilly areas
such as the Sungai Aring complex in Kelantan. Development of the agricultural
areas served by the project is benefiting some 21,800 settler and worker
families (compared to 26,000 expected at appraisal) by providing land and
employment. Water treatment and distribution works are providing drinking
water to some 75,000 settlers, workers, Government officials and others living
in the six settlement complexes served by these works. The number of
beneficiaries (75,000) is much less than that expected at appraisal (150,000)
due to the change in settlement policy in 1989 (para. 5.2). With the high
palm oil and rubber prices in 1994 and early 1995, net incomes of settlers in
FELDA schemes average over RM1,000 (US$400)/month, ranging from RM700 to
1,500/month, which is close to appraisal estimates.
6.5       Cost Recoverv.  No direct capital cost recovery of investments in
roads and water supply was envisaged under the project. The States are
expected to recover water supply O&M costs through water charges. However, it
is not clear at this stage whether collections from FELDA schemes will be
sufficient to cover the full O&M cost. The government policy is to provide
and, if necessary, subsidize high quality drinking water for the rural
population.
6.6       Economic Rate of Return.  Overall, the project at completion is
considered economically viable. However, the economic rate of return (ERR)
varies widely among complexes. Of the 31 complexes served by project access
and village roads and water works, five were selected for economic
reevaluation, following the appraisal methodology. At appraisal, the
complexes selected were Bukit Sagu, Sungai Aring Barat, Sungai Aring Timur,
Lepang Nenering, and Bera Selatan. These were then considered a
representative sample of all project-assisted complexes but were affected by
the least favorable conditions in ter,is of cropping pattern and infrastructure
costs. The ERRs of these complexes ranged from 14% to 26% at appraisal, with
lower returns from complexes with a higher proportion of area in rubber and
long access roads. The ERRs of other project-assisted settlement complexes
were expected to be higher. At project completion, Sungai Aring was
considered as one complex, Lepang Nenering was dropped as it was too small
(2,622 ha), and two bigger complexes were included: Sungai Chiku (10,427 ha)
and Tembangau (14,790 ha). These five complexes together account for about
75,000 ha or 27% of the total area served by project infrastructure. The ERRs
at project completion ranged from over 50% for Bukit Sagu to over 20% for
Chiku and Tembangau, 2% for Bera Selatan, and negative for Sungai Aring.
These results show that the appraisal expectations were overly optimistic for
Sungai Aring (21% for Aring Barat and 14% for Aring Timur) and Bera Selatan
(15%) and conservative for Bukit Sagu (26%). While the agronomic conditions
are the least favorable in Sungai Aring, the problem in Bera Selatan was the
delay in agricultural development and relatively high infrastructure



-10-
requirements (only 235 ha served per km of access road, compared to 787 ha in
Bukit Sagu and 709 ha in Chiku). The economic analysis of these complexes
points to the fact that FELDA was increasingly moving into marginal areas in
the last years of its development program. New land development by FELDA was
stopped about three years ago.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1       Project sustainability is likely.  In addition to competent
management, efficient production and marketing, and favorable prices, an
efficient road network is a key factor for sustainability of FELDA schemes.
FELDA's management, production and marketing systems have proven to be
successful. Although world prices for rubber and palm oil are projected by
the Bank to be much lower in the long term compared to those at appraisal,
those prices should be adequate to sustain most of the complexes.   However,
FELDA should carefully review the financial viability of complexes such as
Sungai Aring and Bera Selatan, and take appropriate actions. Sustainability
of the road network would depend on the establishment of adequate financial
and O&M mechanisms, which Malaysia should have no difficulty achieving.
Provision of high quality water supply to settlers, plantation workers and
staff will be an important factor in maintaining adequate living standards and
sustainability of FELDA schemes. This will depend on the commitment and
efficiency of State water authorities in improving operations and maintenance
of these facilities, as O&M and collection of water charges is a State
responsibility. With the installation of water meters in all six complexes
and payment of water charges by settlers at the same rates as other users
(para. 6.3), revenues are expected to accrue to the States. However, it is
not clear at this stage whether these revenues will be sufficient to ensure an
appropriate level of O&M or subsidies will be required.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1       Bank performance and contribution to the project were, in general,
satisfactory. During the initial years, the Bank focused on improving
engineering design and construction standards, procurement procedures and
tender documents. A substantial amount of time was devoted to the review of
several versions of the water supply training policy and its implications for
the training center financed under the project. This was a joint effort
between the Bank's infrastructure and agricultural operations divisions. In
later years, the Bank concentrated mainly on monitoring construction.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1       PWD and FELDA are very strong organizations and their performance
under the project was satisfactory. However, some problems which affected
implementation included: (i) slow administrative decisions to terminate non-
performing contracts, which resulted in project implementation delay; and (ii)
excessive intervention by the central agencies in determining the composition
and remuneration of engineering consultant teams, which resulted in under-
staffing and difficulties in recruiting qualified engineers at a time of high
market demand for engineering services in Malaysia.



10.   Project Relationship
10.1      working relations among Bank staff on the one hand and staff from
FELDA, PWD and Treasury on the other were always very positive and cordial.
Differences of opinion were dealt with in a professional manner, and
agreements satisfactory to the involved parties were usually reached.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1      PWD employed local surveyors and engineering consulting firms to
design and supervise construction of project works. These consultants were
employed primarily to overcome PWD's administrative constraints in deploying
its own field staff in the numbers and qualifications required, and to provide
logistic support to supervision teams. The various consulting firms fulfilled
this objective to a large extent, and their participation improved works
standards.   However, some consulting firms, particularly small ones, lacked a
core of competent staff and relied primarily on the employment of outside
professionals. As a result, the quality of staff was inconsistent and there
were delays in filling field positions. In some instances, the firms, owners
and directors failed to provide leadership and technical support to resident
engineers. Improved selection procedures and better financial terms should
help to overcome this problem.
11.2      The two road construction advisors employed by PWD (para. 5.7) were
well qualified and had the relevant experience for the job, including prior
road construction work in Malaysia. Their technical views and recommendations
were generally sound. Taking the risk of being controversial, they usually
let their technical views known and made their best effort to introduce
advanced road construction practices. The two manuals they prepared made a
valuable contribution to road construction and materials testing practices in
Malaysia.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The SAR and legal documents provided an adequate framework for the
project. Project reporting by FELDA and PWD included comprehensive
information on project's physical and financial progress, but was usually
short on analysis. Progress reports were usually delayed due to the
difficulty of compiling information from many sources. The information
provided by PWD and FELDA for this report was adequate.



-12-
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Comments by FELDA
1.    The main objective of this project was to provide basic infrastructure
for FELDA schemes in order to improve the living standards of some 26,000
settler families. It has been the government's policy that all infrastructure
works in FELDA schemes is to be carried out by PWD. As such, FELDA has made
it a point that project briefs are forwarded to PWD as soon as identification
of the schemes is made. A period of 4 to 5 years is normally given to PWD to
plan, design, construct, and complete the basic infrastructure so as to meet
the settler emplacement target.
2.    PWD's performance, generally, has been satisfactory.  Despite several
cases of delay due to non-performing contractors, the target of emplacing
settlers was generally achieved. Temporary access and village roads were
constructed by FELDA itself to overcome this problem. Similarly, temporary
water systems were also built to ensure this basic amenity was provided to the
settlement villages while waiting for PWD's system to be completed.
3.    Close rapport with PWD officials, both at Headquarters and the
States/Units, eased coordination. FELDA engineers were also very much
involved in the initial planning of these projects whereby route selections
were carried jointly with PWD engineers, consultants and surveyors. Regular
field visits were also made to ensure smooth implementation. Problems
encountered were discussed and resolved in coordination meetings held monthly.
4.    Despite the slight delay on the part of the PWD, the project as a whole
can be considered successful in achieving its main objective. Towards the end
of the project, a total length of 728 km of roads were completed, which
comprised 292 km access roads serving 57 schemes, 436 km village roads in 54
schemes, and 14 bridges. In addition, 6 settlement complexes covering 42
schemes also benefitted with the completion of water supply projects.
B. Comments by JKR Water SupplV Branch3!
Ref: Evaluation Summary, para. 9 (b)
5.    The reasons for separate civil works and equipment contracts were as
follows:
(a)   Civil works contractors and equipment contractors are classified
separately during registration by Government.
3/ A detailed PCR on the water supply component of the project was prepared by
JKR Water Supplies Branch in November 1993 and is available in the Bank's Asia
Information Center.



- 13 -
(b)   Notwithstanding the above, the practice of contracting the two under
one contract had been tried in other projects but this led to some
problems and resulted in limiting works to only a few contractors.
(c)   Usually, detailed design and drawings of civil works, especially
reinforced concrete detailing, takes a longer time to complete. In
contrast, the drawings and document for procurement of pipe materials
and fittings are completed earlier and, to save time, these tenders are
called separately.
Ref: Evaluation Summary. para 9 (c); and PCR, para 11.1
6.    All consultant firms vying for Government projects must register with
the Government and have to meet the necessary professional, technical and
financial requirements, and once registered, are deemed to be qualified to
perform the works entrusted to them.
Ref: PCR. para 5.10
7.    Prior to completion of Training Center, IKRAM had already taken
concrete steps to emplace personnel and was actively involved in the equipping
and furnishing of all facilities and amenities for the Center. In
November/December 1993, 12 personnel were officially deployed to the Training
Center, including the head.  IKRAM officially took over the Center on
16/12/93. In January 1994, a 10 member planning committee, headed by a Senior
Executive Engineer was formed to plan and coordinate the training courses. A
member from the Johore Training Center was also co-opted into the committee.
C. Comments by JKR Roads Branch
8.    The role of JKR in providing road infrastructure facilities for FELDA
under the project and the relevant problems faced by JKR in carrying out its
role with respect to the various phases of project implementation are
discussed below.
9.    Planning and Project Identification. This phase of the project
implementation process refers to the administrative work carried out by the
various government agencies involved in screening and identifying the list of
projects to be implemented. Basically, JKR has no direct involvement during
the planning stage to determine the list of projects to be launched. The role
of JKR commenced only after FELDA furnished the list of projects to be
implemented.
10.   JKR was facing a hard time during the early part of the loan period
because of its inability to secure a firm commitment from FELDA pertaining to
the actual list of projects to be implemented. There were cases where
proposed projects in the original list were omitted and later replaced with
new ones. It was unfortunate that during the initial stage resources were
wasted in making preparation for the proposed project to be implemented, which
was eventually discarded.



-14-
11.   Technical/Engineering Design.  In so far as JKR is concerned, the
technical input required to implement the project was not a totally new
experience. For example, the design criteria adopted for the road network was
somewhat similar to JKR's practice in implementing projects of a similar
nature.
12.   It was in line with JKR's objective that the technical package planned
and adopted should take into consideration the needs and constraints imposed
by the various parties involved pertaining to the implementation of the
project. Attention was given especially to the development needs of the
various FELDA schemes and its intended users. Some of the decisions made by
JKR with respect to the design criteria for the FELDA road projects are as
follows:
i)       All roads would be constructed up to the level of lateritic
pavement only. Upgrading of the road to metal pavement could
be done later based on needs, and if required funds were
available.
ii)      Some stretches especially along the main access road having a
gradient of more than five percent would be built to metal
pavement.
iii)     The pavement width for the access road to the scheme and the
village roads within the scheme would be built at 5 meters and
4.5 meters respectively.
13.   JKR would commence with engineering design activities upon receiving
the list of projects from FELDA. These activities would include land survey,
soil investigation works, and detailed engineering design up to the point of
preparing the relevant tender documents. Activities involving survey and soil
investigation works were totally handed over to specialist contractors. In
view of the limited resources available to JKR, engineering consultant firms
were appointed to carry out the detailed engineering design for most of the
major projects.
14.   During this period, JKR faced difficulty due to the proposed projects
in the original list being cancelled and replaced with new ones. In some
cases, appointment of soil investigation contractor, surveyor and engineering
consultant had been made and fees for their services paid for.
15.   Tendering.  Generally, the department did not face major problems in
making the necessary preparations for the calling of tender. Up to that
stage, the JKR's practice was somewhat similar to the requirements of the
World Bank. However, problems started to surface during the process of
evaluating and awarding the various tenders. The practice of JKR in
evaluating and awarding the tender then was not in total agreement with the
criteria of the World Bank, i.e. tender should be awarded to the qualified
bidder whose price is evaluated to be the lowest. However, due to the close
rapport between officers of the World Bank and the JKR counterparts involved,
most of the problems originally encountered were ironed out. The two parties
managed to blend the requirements of the World Bank with JKR's practice.



-15-
16.   As stated earlier, during the first half of the project period, calling
of tenders was late due to changes in the list of projects to be implemented.
17.   Pro-ect Implementation/Construction.   Physical implementation of the
project could only be carried out smoothly towards the second half of the
project period. Many of the projects were tendered and subsequently awarded
between 1986 and 1988. That was the time when the country was facing an
economic downturn. Public and private sector investments including those in
the construction sector were curtailed due to the sluggish economy. Most of
the contractors were out of work during the period. The majority of those who
tendered for the FELDA projects put up fairly low prices during bidding with
the hope of securing the contracts.
18.   Around 1989, the economy started to pick up from the earlier recession.
This was the time when many of the projects tendered earlier were being
implemented. During construction, many contractors faced numerous problems
that led to nonperformance and finally termination of contracts. This was
partly due to the fact that their contract prices were low and did not reflect
the prevailing market rates.
19.   During the same period, both the government and private sector launched
many infrastructure projects nation wide such as the construction of the North
South Highway. However, the boom in the construction sector was creating
problems for JKR and the consultants and contractors who were involved in
implementing the FELDA road projects. The technical professionals, skilled
workers and even general laborers needed for FELDA road projects were hard to
come by because of the market demand. Contractors were facing difficulty in
obtaining machineries, equipments and construction related services such as
those of specialised sub-contractors to carry out prestressing works for
concrete bridge girders. During the same period, the country was facing the
shortage of cement. This was another big problem for the construction
industry in general.
20.   Prior to January 1989, many of the FELDA road projects funded by the
World Bank were under the direct supervision of JKR staff during construction.
Since JKR was also involved with many other government projects, it was
realised that the department could not cope with the amount of work in hand.
If this problem was not resolved, it was anticipated that the quality of
supervision works would suffer. Finally, it was decided that most of the
FELDA road projects be handed over to the consultants for supervision.
21.   One of the major problems faced during the implementation stage was the
change in policy by the government and FELDA regarding the size of certain
land schemes. In some cases, villages were made smaller. JKR had to respond
to this change such as by taking out the construction of village roads
altogether from certain contracts.
22.   One problem faced by all parties involved with the implementation of
FELDA road projects was the remoteness of the site. Practically all the work
sites were far from built up settlement areas. Project supervision staff and
workers had a tough time having to deal with the basic daily requirements



-16-
including food and accommodation. This was also true for the contractors who
had to manage the logistical supplies required by the projects.
23.   Financial Management/Funding.  To ensure that funds were sufficient for
the execution of the ongoing projects and the projects planned to be called
for tender in any particular year, JKR prepared a comprehensive physical and
financial report every quarter. The report included significant financial
details indicating the estimated cost and the work progress achieved on each
project.
24.   Preparation of vouchers for payment for projects financed by the World
Bank were made at JKR Headquarters. The main reason for establishing this
procedure was to facilitate the disbursement process especially in getting all
the necessary documents for every individual project. However, there were
problems faced in the disbursement process:
i)       The World Bank required evidence from JKR that the projects
were actually being implemented before any disbursement could
be done. Initially the World Bank insisted on the submission
of perforated vouchers but JKR had difficulties in obtaining
these vouchers from Sub-Treasury Account (STA). Having
realised the problems, the World Bank finally agreed to accept
vouchers and JKR66 forms for disbursements.
ii)      Some of the vouchers and JKR66 forms could not be found due to
the late decision made by the World Bank, as mentioned above.
25.   Subsequently, it was noticed that a few projects implemented under the
World Bank loan were not fully disbursed. Nevertheless, JKR managed to
forward almost all the required documents to FELDA for disbursement purposes.
26.    Maintenance of Completed Projects.  Generally, the condition of the
FELDA roads was satisfactory in the first few years after completion of the
contracts. As usual, the cost of maintenance of a road depends to a great
deal on the design parameters adopted together with the types and frequency of
vehicles operating on the road. The department believes that the design
criteria adopted and the quality of cc.istruction works are acceptable and in
line with the needs. However, heavy vehicles mainly timber lorries that
operate along the FELDA road network do a lot of damage. Basically, all the
roads were constructed to the status of laterite pavement only. As expected,
the abnormal vehicle loads coupled with heavy rains affected the condition of
the roads tremendously.
27.   The department is aware that it has not been able to carry out
maintenance works on the road network in a truly satisfactory manner. The
main reason is the limited financial resource available. The annual financial
allocation set aside for road maintenance activities has not matched up with
the burden of works in hand. In addition to the funding constraint,
maintenance operations have also suffered from a significant shortage of
qualified staff. Shortage of staff has limited the amount of maintenance that
JKR can carry out itself and also its effectiveness in supervising maintenance
works carried out by contractors.



-17-
CLARIFICATIONS/EXPLANATIONS TO THE ISSUES MENTIONED IN THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
2CR REFERENCE                              Clarifications/Explanations
Evaluation Summary  Consultants' Performance
Para 9(c)
Generally all design works which had been awarded to selected
consultants were closely monitored by JKR to ensure that works produced
conformed to JKR standards. Appointment of consultants was based on
the list initially recognised and approved by JKR's design section.
The performance of these consultants on the list would be evaluated and
if any consultants failed to comply with the JKR requirements, the
department would delist the consultants concerned. Hence, the high
quality of consulting firms selected was being ensured.
Project Review       Contractors' Performance
From The Bank's
Perspective          Recently JKR took a decision that the chosen consultants had to
Paras 2.4 & 11.1     supervise the projects which they designed.  The main objective of this
policy was to speed up the execution of the projects. The advantage of
engaging the relevant consultants to look after the projects was that
they were in a better position to solve any problems, especially
technical ones, which occur on site during project implementation. In
most cases the supervision team is headed by senior personnel from the
consultant firm itself but under certain circumstances the consultants
are forced to employ external experts to lead this team. However, full
assistance is provided to the team by the consultants, especially the
designers. In order to ensure competent personnel being selected, they
have to undergo a series of interviews and finally get the approval
from JKR and the Treasury. The number of site personnel appointed
entirely depends on the work progress achieved. However, under certain
conditions, when requested by JKR, the number would be increased or
reduced depending on the progress on site. Thus the whole process
explained above ensured that only a group of competent personnel would
form a supervision team and adequate number of personnel would be
deployed throughout the Lroject course.



-18-
CLARIFICATIONS/EXPLANATIONS TO THE ISSUES MENTIONED IN THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
t PCR REFERENCE                             Clarifications/Explanations
Paras 5.1 &    Appointment of Contractors/Tender Evaluation
5.4
The tender evaluation method practiced by JKR was to determine the most
qualified contractor in all aspects including financial and technical
capability. In other words, there was no doubt at all about the
credibility of the contractor recommenced by JKR. Recently, JKR reviewed
the tender evaluation procedures. The parameters that were taken into
consideration were as follows:
i)    The contractor making excellent progress on the works in hand.
ii)   Qualified both technically and financially:  the current
financial standing, number of technical staff employed and
the availability of machineries would be verified. The past
5 years' experience in the construction field was also taken
into consideration.
iii)  Offering justified tender price.  The tender price will be
rationalised based on the respective contract duration with
the objective to obtain the best workable tender sum given
market conditions.
As explained in detail in paras 17-19 of the Project Review From
Borrower's Perspective, the main reason for the contractors' non-
performance was the abrupt economic change leading to the substantial
increase in prices of construction materials, higher cost of hiring or
purchasing of machineries, difficulty in engaging skilled workers, etc.
With this economic change, most of the contractors found themselves in
great difficulties to complete the works as scheduled. JKR had no choice
but to terminate some of the contracts. Therefore, the point about
awarding the contracts to the unqualified,ill equipped and poorly
financed contractors was totally incorrect based on the above facts.



-19-
CLARIFICATIONS/EXPLANATIONS TO THE ISSUES MENTIONED IN THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
PCR Reference                             Clarifi,cations/Explanations
Paras 5.1 & 9.1   Termination cf Contracts
Initially the termination process took time but lately this problem was
overcome by appointing JKR States Directors as the Superintending
Officers of the pro]ects implemented in their respective States.
Asphalt Pavement & Higher Construction Standards
Due to limited funds and time available to execute all the projects in
the approved list forwarded to JKR by FELDA, it was decided to adopt
lateritic roads with reduced formation width for FELDA roads.
Stretches having gradient exceeding 5% were paved to avoid further
scouring of the road pavement.
JKR established a design secticn and a project coordination unit
specifically to undertake the above task and managed to complete almost
all the projects indicated in the list.
All FELDA roads constructed were to be finally paved after being opened
for 2-3 years using local funds. FELDA roads are categorised as
federal roads and the maintenance cost will be met from the allocation
by the central government annually. Currently all the roads
constructed under this program are in motorable condition.
Progress Report
The format of the physical and financial progress report was designed
by the World Bank officer. There were no amendments or modifications
to these reports requeste by the World Bank throughout the program
period. Thus JKR is in full agreement that the reports submitted were
satisfactory and adequate.



-20-
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Title               Purpose              Year of             Status
and Number                                   approval
Jenka I         Land development of 12,150       1968      Successfully
533-MA          ha and settlement of 2,770                completed.  PPAR No.
families                                  2122 issued 06/30/78.
Jenka II        Land development of 12,065       1970      Successfully
672-MA          ha and settlement of 2,770                completed.  PPAR No.
families                                  3024 issued 07/18/80.
Jenka III       Land development of 16,475       1973      Successfully
885-MA          ha and settlement of 3,848                completed.  PPAR No.
families                                  3978 issued 06/18/82.
Johor           Land development of 30,301       1974     Successfully
Tenggara        ha and settlement of 7,500                completed.  PPAR
967-MA          families                                  No.4221 issued
12/13/82.
Keratong        Land development of 20,960       1974     Successfully
1044-MA         ha and settlement of 5,100                completed.  PPAR No.
families                                  5780 issued 06/85.
FELDA VI        Land development of 28,300       1978     Successfully
1590-MA         ha and settlement of 7,400                completed.  PCR issued
families  1978                            10/30/87.
FELDA Palm      Construction and                 1985     Succesfully completed.
Oil Mills       commissioning of seven                    PCR issued 3/13/92.
2530-MA         palm oil mills.
Sabah Land      Complete agricultural            1989     The project was
Settlement      development of 61,000 ha                  satisfactorily
and             and settlement of 3,560                   completed in 1993.
Environmen-    families, and protection                   PCR under preparation.
tal             of a 120,500 ha Wildlife
Management      Reserve
3039-MA



-21-
2. Project Timetable
Item                       Date                Date
Planned             Actual
Identification                 12/82               1 C'82
Preparation                 01/83-12/84         06'83-04/85
Appraisal Mission 1/           04/85               04/85
Loan Negotiations 2/          10/28/85           11/04/85
Board Approval                12/10/85           12/10/85
Loan Signature                01/10/86           01/10/86
Loan Effectiveness            04/10/86           04/10/86
1/    It was agreed at the Decision Meeting that the proje-t's
economic evaluation would be carried out on the basis of two
selected subprojects representative of oil palm and rubber
crops, instead of calculating ERRs for all schemes included in
the project. This was decided on the basis of good experience
of the Bank with FELDA projects. It was also decided that the
strengthening of PWD's road maintenance organization was
outside the scope of the project and would be dealt with under
other highways projects. Finally, it was agreed to include in
the project a water supply O&M training component
complementary to a similar component included in the Johor
Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan 2654-MA'.
2/    The Malaysia delegation did not accept the inclusion of an
environmental component in the project.   The delegation
informed the Bank that a law requiring environmental impact
assessments for all new land development projects was to be
approved by the Malaysian Parliament in February 1986. Thus,
in view of the politically sensitive nature of the subject,
the explicit intervention of the Bank could be counter-
productive. It was agreed instead to include a covenant in
the Loan Agreement (Section 3.03) requiring the Government to
use appropriate environmental controls in the implementation
of the project. Also, the Malaysian delegation did not agree
to the use of a special account because they did not consider
project funding to he a major issue.



-22-
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements
US$ Million
FY   Quarter              Appraisal          Actual          Actual as
Estimate                         % of Estimate
87   Dec 31, 1986             0.5               .43              86
Mar 31, 1987             0.8             1.69             211
Jun 30, 1987             1.1             2.15             195
88   Sep 30, 1987             1.6              2.41             151
Dec 31, 1987             2.2             4.21             191
Mar 31, 1988             4.9             4.39              90
Jun 30, 1988             7.6             5.97              79
89   Sep 30, 1988            10.3              7.15              69
Dec 31, 1988            13.0             8.96              69
Mar 31, 1989            16.8             9.37              56
Jun 30, 1989            20.6            10.39              50
90   Sep 30, 1989            24.4             10.39              43
Dec 31, 1989            28.2            10.39              37
Mar 31, 1990            30.6            11.92              39
Jun 30, ].990           33.0            12.27              37
91   Sep 30, 1990            36.1             13.15              36
Dec 31, 1990            39.2            15.60              40
Mar 31, 1991            41.3            21.89              53
Jun 30, 1991            43.5            25.81              59
92   Sep 30, 1991            45.6            26.25               58
Dec 31, 1991            47.8            29.27              61
Mar 31, 1992            48.8            30.95              63
Jun 30, 1992            48.9            33.27              68
93   Sep 30, 1992            49.4             33.54              68
Dec 31, 1992            50.0            41.99              84
Mar 31, 1993            50.0            41.99              84
Jun 30, 1993            50.0            45.04              90
94   Sep 30, 1993            50.0            46.25               92
Dec 31, 1993            50.0            46.49              93
The date of the last disbursement was November 17, 1993. Total loan
disbursements at closing were US$ 46.49 million. The undisbursed balance of
US$ 3.51 million was cancelled.



-23-
4. Project Implementation
4.1 Summary of Project Indicators
Appraisal      Actual
Indicator                      Unit     Estimate   at completion
Roads
Access Roads                    Km          190            292
Bridges                         No          18              14
Village Roads                   Km         650             436
Training/T. Assistance          s/m         48              72
Water Supply Works
Treatment Plants                 No.          7              7
Distribution Mains               km          90             94
Reservoirs                       Ml       16.7              11
Training Center                  No.          1             1
Training/T. Assistance          s/m         48               0



- 24 -
4.2 Water Sucply Component - Technical Parameters
Lepar Hilir          Lepar Utara             Bukit Sagu          Tersang (Koyan)         Tenggaroh            Nitar
(Pahang)               (Pahang)               (Pahang)               (Pahang)             (Johor)             (Johor)
Water Source                     Sg. Lepar             Sg. Lepar               Sg. Kuantan         Sg. Jelai               Sg. Sedili           Sg. Lenggor
Sg. Tekam
Dry Weather                       1:25 years            1:25 years             1:50 years           1:25 years             1:25 years           1:25 years
Flow            Mld       254.6                 14.8 & 17.5            181.8                222.8                  60.2                 60.2
Intake                Type       River Bank            River Bank             River Bank           River Bank              River Bank          River Bank
Size      2x demand             2x demand               2x demand           2x demand               2x demand            2x demand
Raw Water              Type       Submersible          Submersible             Submersible         Submersible             Submersible          Submersible
Pump                   Size       2x demand             2x demand              2x demand            2x demand              2x demand            2x demand
Raw Water Main          mm        375                  300                     300                 300                     375                  250
Length         km        0.565 (0.65) /c       0.3                    1.3                  0.4                    0.3                  0.4
Treatment              Mid       6.25 (6.4) L          4.1 /b & 3.2 Lb         5.5 /a              3.7 (3.2) /b            7.7 /a               3.11 (2.3)  /b
Staff Houses           No.       9                      14                     12 (7)               12 (7)                 11                   7
Access roads            km        1.5                   6.5                    9.6 (5.2)            0.6 (0.4))             8.0 (2.0)            0.4
Power Supply                      Generator             Generator              Generator            Generator              Generator            Main (Gen)
Reservoirs Total        Ml        5.7                  9.6                     6.4                 3.6                     10.9                 2.3
Of which,
constructed            Ml        2.8 (3.2)            4.51 (4.4)               3.68 (5.9)          -                      3.2                  -
under the project
Distribution mains
total, of which        km       30.0                  37.4                    37.3                30.7                    48.0                 9.0
constructed under
the project            km       8.6                   30.0                    37.3 (26.3)          -                      18.0                 -
/a Operational for 18 hours/day
/b Operational for 16 hours/day
/ Figures in parenthesis indicate original plan when different from actual



-25-
4.3 SETTLEMENT COMPLEXES AND CROP AREAS SERVED BY PROJECT ROADS
S6t And -                                              [-Initiat     Number               Agricultural Area WHa)
GStIherant     .    .   . Actess  V1igu Midge   Oevelopment           of
Km      Km       a.,    Year            Settlers     Oil Palm     Rubber   Cocoa      Total
KEDAH
Laks Selatan                 0.00   17.68       0      82/83               85        191       1,776        0     1,967
,8;ub-Totaft                      17.68      0                           35        191       1.776       0      1,67
SELANGOR
Sg. Tengi                    3.53    7.02       0      82183              140       1,712          0        0     1,712
Corakah                      6.10   10.20       0      82/83              285       2.042          0        0     2,042
Sub4ToWa.    -        .    9,.6  17.22       0                          426      3.754          0        0      3,7S4
KELANTAN
Sg. Chiku                   14.70   45.28       1      80181             1,592     10.134        293        0    10.427
Sg. Aring                   57.50   21.94       6      80/81              185      19,39.      1,060        0    20,452
Sub.Total         .        7220.  67.22       7                        1,777     29.526      1,353        0    30,879
PAHANG
Lapar Utars                  0.00   10.00       0      78/79              942      19,020               1,754    20,774
LeparHilir                   1.00    0.00       0      82183             1.380     11,752      2,399        0    14.151
Kecau                       13.50   14.00       0      80/81              133     18,294       1,730        0    20,024
Krau I - Mempaga            17.39    0.00       0      77178             1.060     6,921           0        0     6,921
Bkt. Sagu                   20.00   16.40       4      76/77              735      15,743          0        0    15,743
Cegar Perah                  0.00   17.13       0      80/81              151       2.169      1.036        0     3.205
Mangkarak                   10.67    0.00       0      88/89                0      5.388           0        0     5.388
Triang 1 & 2                 15.23   10.30      0      82/83              419      4,074        434         0     4,508
Tembangau - Palong 16       27.00    0.00       0      81/82             6.021     13,405     30,191        0   43,596
Bera Salatan                57.60    0.00       3      83/84                0      12,842       694         0    13,536
Tembangau                    0.00   31.05       0      81/82              546       9,250      5,540        0    14,790
Selancar4.5,6                0.00   31.31       0      80181              388      12,547          0        0    12.547
Selendang 2                  0.00   11.28       0      75/76             1.285     3.531           0        0     3,531
Sub-Total                 182.39  141.47       7                       13,060    134,936     42.024    1.754   178.714
N. SEMBILAN
Serting Hilir                0.00   40.72       0      79180             1,233     6,062       1.904        0     7,966
Palong Timur                13.00   31.21       0      81/82              850      10,100       331       107    10.538
Titi                         2.80    0.00       0      81/82              125          0         958        0       958
Sub-Total                  15.80   71.93      0                        2.208     16,152      3.193      107    19,462
JOHOR
Maokil                       2.10   24.00       0      83184              753      6,338        318         0     6.656
Tenggaroh                    0.00   24.70       0      77178             1,994    11,180        600         0    11,780
Tenggaroh Timur              0.00    6.21       0      84185              201      4.018         604        0     4.622
Tenggaroh Selatan            13.99    7.27      0      83/84               88       1,547          0        0     1.547
Ulu Belitong-Bkt.Tongkat     0.00   29.94       0      77/78              650      3,437          0         0     3,437
Nitar Timur                 10.50    0.00       0      87188                0      2,155          0         0     2,155
Sub-Total                 _26.S    2.12       0                       368S6    28.675        1.522        0    30.197
PERAK
Lepang Nenering              0.00   14.20       0      82183              145      1,616       1.006        0     2.622
Lawin Utara                  0.90    8.64       0      79180              127        239        387         0       626
Sub-Total                   0.90Q  22.84       0                         272      1,855       1.393        0     3,248
TERENGGANU
Sg. Cador                    4.22    0.00       0      86/87                0      2.349       5,220        0     7.569
Tenang Besut                 0.00    6.19       0      63/65              326      1.027        199         0     1.226
Sub-Toftv                   4,22   16, s       0                         326      3,876       5,A19
TOTAL                     291.73  436.67      14                      21,83     218.475      56,6B00   1,861  277,01f



- 26 -
5. Project Cost and Financing
5.1 Project Cost
(US$ Million)
AppraisaL Estimate                              ActuaL
Local      Foreign                       Local        Foreign
Item                                   Costs      Exchange      TotaL            Costs        Exchage    Total
Roads
Construction                          24.5        25.6        50.1              31.6          32.9        64.5
Engineering & Supervision              2.6         1.6         3.2               8.0           0.4         8.4
Training                               0.2         0.6         0.8               0.1           0.6         0.7
Subtotal Roads                     27.3        26.8         54.1             39.7          33.9         73.6
Water Supply
Waterworks                             8.2         9.8        18.0               8.8          10.7        19.5
Engineering & supervision              1.4         0.4         1.8               1.6           0.5         2.2
Vehicles and Equipment                 0.3         0.6         0.9               0.1           0.3         0.4
Training                               0.7         1.6         2.3               0.0           0.0         0.0
Subtotal Water SuppLy               9.9         11.0        20.9             10.5           11.6        22.1
TotaL Basetine Cost                     37.2         37.8        75.0
PhysicaL Contingencies                 4.9         5.1        10.0
Price Contingencies                    5.3         7.1        12.4
TotaL Project Cost                      47.4         50.0        97.4             50.2           45.4        95.6
5.2 Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Source                           Planned                       Actual
IBRD                          50.0      51.3%             46.5      48.6%
MALAYSIA                      47.4      48.7/             49.1      51.4%
TotaL Project                 97.4                        95.6



-27-
6. Proiect ResuLts
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                           AppraisaL Estimate                 Estimate at Project
Completion
Planted Area (ha)
Oil Palm                                               79,800                            218,500
Rubber                                                 24,100                             56,700
Cocoa                                                   1,600                               1,800
No. of Beneficiaries (families)                            26,000                              21,800
B.  Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate                 Estimate at Project
Completion
Economic Rate of Return                                   14% to 26%                     Negative to > 50%
Underlying Assumptions
Project Life                                                25                                 25
Commodity Prices:
Rubber (MYR/kg) /a                                                                           2.30
Oil PaLm (MYR/ton ffb) /a                                                                  114
Peak Yields:
Rubber (kg/ha)                                          1,800                           1800-1836 Lb
OiL PaLm (ton ffb/ha)                                     22                               18-25 b
/a   Farmgate prices for year 2000 in 1994 constant terms.  The appraisaL figures were in 1984 constant
terms and have been converted to 1994 constant terms.
b   The yieLd profiLes vary for different compLexes and even for the same compLex between those managed by
FELDA (settler schemes) and the others managed by the FELDA PLantations Sdn. Bhd. (non-settLer
schemes). The yieLds, in generaL, are higher on FELDA-managed schemes, as these have better agronomic
conditions than the non-settLer schemes.
C. FinanciaL Impact
Indicators                                          AppraisaL Estimate                 Estimate at Project
CompLetion
Net Farm Income
(Average Monthly in MYR)/a
From Rubber                                              1,000b                                 700
From OiL PaLm                                            1,830Lb                               1,500
/a    In 1994 constant terms.
/b    The appraisaL estimate was MYR 750 for rubber and MYR 1,375 for oiL paLm average monthLy income in
1984 constant terms. This has been converted to 1994 constant terms using the consumer price index.



-28-
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant                                Comments
Construction Supervision
1. JKR to employ Road Construction and Test-    PWD hired two specialists
ing Materials Specialist to assist in or-    each for three years.
ganization of road construction supervi-       Their work was completed
sion by State and Regional units and staff   in August 1990.
training, by June 30 1986.
2. JKR to employ consultants for supervision:   PWD employed local consul-
(i) of selected roads in the states of         tants as required, and
Johor and Pahang; and (ii) of all roads in  also for construction
States other than Johor, Pahang and Negeri   supervision of major road
Sembilan.                                      contracts in Pahang and
Negeri Sembilan.
3. JKR to employ consultants for supervision    Complied with. Performance
of all water works construction.               of some of these consul-
tants was not fully satis-
factory.
Pahanq Training ProQram
4. GOM to employ two training specialists to   As construction of the
assist in the establishment and initial        center was delayed the two
operation of the Pahang Water Supply Trai-   specialists were not em-
ning Unit by June 30, 1987.                    ployed.
Water Rates
5. GOM to take steps to obtain the agreement    Complied with. Further-
of the States of Johor and Pahang that for  more, the two States have
FELDA settlers emplaced after December 31,   taken steps to totally
1986, free water shall be limited to a         phase out free water al-
quantity sufficient to meet basic needs        lowances to FELDA set-
not exceeding 18,000 liters per month per    tlers.
family.



-29-
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff-Weeks)
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE        TOTAL    FY83-   FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93   FY94    FY9'
85
Ident./Preparation            24.0      24.0      -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -       -       -
AppraisaL                     32.8      24.0    8.8
Negotiations/Board             5.1        -      5.1
Supervision                   77.1        -      7.4    13.3      9.4      9.1      9.1      7.0     9.3      9.5    3.0       -
Completion                     7.0        -       -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -     3.0      4.0
TOTAL:                      146.0    48.0    21.3    13.3       9.4      9.1      9.1      7.0     9.3     9.5     6.0      4.0
SOURCE: MIS Project Staffing Detail



-30-
8. Use of Bank Resources
B. Missioins
Number       Total                          Overall
of       days in                        Performance
Project Cycle      Mo/Year    Persons        Field      Specialization      Rating
Identification 1   10/82          1            2               D
Identification 2   11/82          2            4              E/B
Preparation 1       02/83         1            10              A
Preparation 2       06/83         2            10             A/C
Preparation 3       11/83         2            6              A/C
Preparation 4       03/84         3            20            A/C/C
Preparation 5       06/84         2            2              A/C
Preparation 6       10/84         1            1               G
Preparation 7       12/84         1            2               C
Preappraisal        01/85         3            35            A/C/E
Appraisal           04/85         5            63          A/C/D/E/H
Post-Appraisal      09/85         1            4               A
Supervision 1       02/86         3           15             A/B/C             1
Supervision 2       06/86         1            3               A             none
Supervision 3       10/86         2            9              A/C              1
Supervision 4       09/87         2           25              A/E              2
Supervision 5       11/88         1            7               A               3
Supervision 6       06/89         1            5               A               2
Supervision 7       02/90         1           10               A               2
Supervision 8       10/90         1            7               A               2
Supervision 9a/    05/91          1            4               H             none
Supervision 10      12/91         1            7               A               2
Supervision lla/   01/92          1            2               H             none
Supervision 12      10/92         1            9               A               2
Supervision 13b/   09/93          2           15              A/F              2
Completion
Follow-up           07/94         1            5               E             n.a.
SPECIALTY:                                             PERFORMANCE RATING:
A =  Rural Development Engineer                         1 = No problems
B =  Financial Analyst                                  2 = Minor problems
C =  Water Supply and Sanitation Engineer               3 = Major problems
D =  Road Engineer
E =  Economist
F =  Tree Crops Specialist
G =  Transport Economist
H =  Training Specialist
a/ Supervision of water supply training component only.
b/ Combined with Completion Mission.



100'                                 2' 10]102'                                                            I o'r                              10
M MA L AYS I A
it.e                                                                                   LAND SETTLEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT
-,   ,)PE t     ,E I    I PROJECT ROAD WORKS
LAKA IfPRIOJECT WATER WORKS
EongoltS|lAEA nFLAI                                                                                                         *   FEDERAL PWD REGIONAL OFFICE
Y--                                                                                        - U_ RURRER SCHEMES
Alor S.                                    THAILAND                 !        olo Rk                                    _    OIL PALM SCHEMES
>    >KEDAH  |                                                                                     COCOA SCHEMES
*      SUGAR SCHEME AND MlIl
P.- P.I.h                  ~~~~0 RESEARCH CENTER
U PALM OIL MILLS
sg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUBRRER FACTORY
KuLle.w*t <                                      p G.> 17 l , I \ = 1  *A CCOCOA MIlS
R~4-:OIL'WSAY
GeorgUlo_O lQX      \t/  yI^#NIrIAA   fJ\                               )>RIVERS
11. -PIN                                                        ~~                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Koo  Tq4f  STATE ROUDNARIES
// 4   Z   /   KELANTAN    /                                     -  INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
0     20    4      0     R      0
~~~~~   ' ~ ~    ~      .     ?     -
>X=4p=n/   j   Gup  MoipagX  i        '] '''         Ab\                     KILOMEtERS
AREA OF MAP~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
L~~,00                                                  /SrNPAHAGPORE
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00UT
8                                                                                    03.                                TO4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     N 
C    ;,                                OR Ilu   J
/                ~~~~~~KUAY,\KA              A_                             1  
INDONESIA                                                                            \                           l                                rmg-
/hw bowndo|ze, eoBb o~~|_oro_ md OA db_ L~6~=,m  MeLSs      2>         >      '                 /              SL TENGGAROH
.,;, RE OF MA                                                                                                      uu,/SN AO E   
' ~~~~~~~I  N   D    O   N   E   S  I  A                                                                                          up  !/<*   
%         .f                                                   a                                                          r                                   o 
103-                                        '4~~~~~~~~~~~~~:









IMAGING
Report No:      15188
Type: 2CR



