Report No. PID11531
Project Name             CENTRAL AMERICA-GEF Indigenous&...
Community Biodiversity
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   General agriculture; fishing and
forestry sector (100%)
Project ID               P075219
Borrower(s)              CCAD AND CICAFOC
Implementing Agency
Address THE MINISTRIES OF ENVIRONMENT
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        December 19, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      May 27, 2003
Bank Approval Date       October 7, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Indigenous Peoples and Natural Resource Management
Central America is one of the world's richer regions in culture and
tradition. Since 1992, the countries of the Central American isthmus have
participated in a regional initiative to maintain the genetic viability
and existing natural resources of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
(MBC), a continuous ecosystem extending from southern Mexico to northern
Colombia. The MBC initiative provides a framework to promote the
coordination of policies and actions that contribute to its sustainable
development, to attract resources and to launch an important number of
projects. The Central American portion of the MBC is of extremely high
value as a home to rich biological diversity, with large numbers of
endemic species, and as a store of carbon that is under strong pressure
from the agricultural frontier. Central American natural richness is
evident considering that this small tropical region has 20 life zones
ranging from semi-desert to cloud forest, with 8% of the world's known
plant species and 10W of its vertebrates.   It has a distinct,
heterogeneous nature with areas of extremely steep terrain, ample variety
of climate and high propensity for natural disasters.
There are 14 distinct ethnic groups of indigenous peoples in Central
America speaking 39 languages, totaling 6.7 million people and making up
about 24% of the total population in the seven countries in the region
(Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and
Panama). The distribution is highly skewed, with Guatemala having the
largest concentration of indigenous peoples (66%), mainly of Mayan
descent, followed by Belize (20%) and Honduras (15%) (International Labor
Organization figures). Indigenous peoples in Central America include: (a)
various ethnicities of Mayan descent who have settled in Guatemala and
eastern Honduras, (b) descendents of ethnic groups that lived in
subsistence economies in more remote traditional territories where
cultural practices developed in relation to the natural resource base, and



(c) the Afro-Caribbean peoples who settled along the coastal and island
reefs. The distribution of indigenous peoples in Central America varies
widely throughout the region. Not surprisingly, outside of Guatemala,
indigenous peoples are concentrated in the less populated areas and the
areas with the remaining concentrations of intact natural forests and
ecosystems. About 85t of the region's nationally protected areas overlap
with indigenous populations.
Historically, the economic and development model for rural areas in
Central America was based on a belief in the superiority of individual,
private land tenure to foster efficient resource use. The communal
systems of the indigenous peoples and the cultural values underpinning
their land use were actively undermined through i) private land
acquisition in the agricultural frontier, ii) rural development and trade
policies, iii) land registration systems, and iv) educational policies.
Over hundreds of years, some indigenous peoples integrated into the
mainstream, abandoning their cultural identity, traditional institutions
and changing sustainable cultural uses of the land. Others adopted the
outward characteristics of the non-indigenous society, speaking only
Spanish and making communal decisions out of the public eye. A subset
retreated to areas of refuge where there was geographic and political
space to maintain their cultural identity and practices, keeping local
systems of governance and social organization alive and evolving. The
coastal Afro-Caribbean peoples ensured their economic survival by
extensive patterns of labor migration, establishing permanent ties to
Caribbean and North American cities providing jobs. Most of the countries
in the region initiated ambitious land reform and land redistribution
programs, but with the implicit goal of creating private holdings in
non-government lands and with a bias against preserving communal or
municipal forest management systems, which were seen as more risky than
state or individual tenure. Communal titling existed legally only in
Honduras and for the comarca territories in Panama.
The strong overlap between indigenous peoples and natural resources is not
coincidental. Historically, indigenous peoples have had a strong
relationship with the natural resource base in their culture, livelihood
strategies, and value systems. The ecosystems of many areas of high
biodiversity have been shaped by human management practices related to
subsistence agriculture, home gardens, forest extraction, hunting or
gathering practices, and the use of forest as a refuge from mainstream
society and as sacred sites. It is also known that under certain
circumstances population densities foster biological diversity, and do not
necessarily destroy it, as in the case of Sri Lanka, the Caribbean islands
or the Indo-Burman region. Some inter-disciplinary approaches, such as
those employed by E. Ostrom 1/ suggest that traditional community
governance mechanisms may help develop sustainable systems. Even in parts
of Central America with supposedly "assimilated" Mayan populations, a
recent study of municipal forest management comparing communities in
historically Mayan areas and non-Mayan areas in Western Honduras
documented significantly better managed forests in Mayan areas. (Tucker,
Catherine M. 1999. "Private Versus Common Property Forests: Forest
Conditions and Tenure in a Honduran Community". Human Ecology 27:
201-230.)
Over the past two decades, there has been a continually evolving shift in
-2 -



the policy mindset on the relationship between individual land holdings
and economic progress, and on the role of government in managing natural
resources. Land regularization and registration initiatives are being
shaped by a more open environmental policy dialogue, and as a result, more
respectful property regimes that focus on common property and
co-management principles are emerging through local action. Still, none of
the countries in the region have created an adequate legal framework for
establishing tenure rights of indigenous peoples over their remaining
traditional territories. There is partial recognition of communal
indigenous rights, such as the comarcas in Panama, the autonomous region
in Nicaragua with multi-ethnic governance, the peace accord principles in
Guatemala, and the expansion of communal titling options in Honduras.
Various countries provide either co-management rights in nationally
declared protected areas or define long-term usufruct rights in lands
contiguous to individually claimed indigenous lands. There is growing
recognition that viable ecosystem management systems still exist in
indigenous lands under land use categories associated with a system of
land tenure, inheritance, and a traditional normative framework for
specific uses of each category, without the environmental community having
to "create" them.
In parallel, indigenous communities have themselves become more aware of
their constitutional rights and of their international political space,
including the ILO convention 169 and Article 8(j) of the Convention of
Biological Diversity (CBD). They have begun to take a public stance on
the values of community resource management of resources important to
indigenous peoples and the need to secure their tenure and control over
those resources. A growing number of indigenous communities have
developed modern land-use plans for their titled lands or those parts of
protected areas established in their historical territories, increasingly
based on their traditional values and normative systems. These plans aim
to enhance and sustain the natural resource base and conserve a portion
for its permanent ecological, cultural, and biodiversity values. These
efforts draw from traditional knowledge, the same knowledge that
established traditional land use mosaics around different types of
biodiversity, soil, water, and--implicitly--forests that sequester
carbon. NGOs have supported pilot projects that rely on a blend of
indigenous knowledge of resource management and product use with
principles of scientific management. From an indigenous people's
perspective, the persistence of healthy and diverse ecosystems within
their territories or areas of influence is due precisely to their
relationship with these ecosystems--they are a fundamental element in the
maintenance of these ecosystems. Where indigenous peoples have maintained
access and control over these ecosystems, there are new challenges and
pressures to ensure sustainability, but indigenous peoples seek to be the
stewards, rather than enforcers of state or global environmental community
policies.
Despite these positive developments, there are serious threats to
indigenous ecosystem management throughout Central America. Poverty and
the need for immediate income streams leads to continued clearing of
agricultural plots by the indigenous peoples themselves, and shorter
rotation cycles, resulting in less diversification of crops, plants and
forest products. It has also frequently led to sell their timber
resources to outsiders for negligible sums of money, as a form of cash
-3 -



resource. Outside settlers move into areas of traditional rotation
agriculture and clear permanently for pasture and agro-pasture, further
displacing indigenous systems. Cleared lands are being farmed
unsustainably for longer periods and there are no resources to restore
degraded soils. For a summary of the environmental issues related to
biodiversity conservation in indigenous areas of Central America, see
Annex 1. For more detailed discussions, refer to the following documents:
1) A Conservation Assessment of the Terrestrial Ecoregions of Latin
America and the Caribbean, The World Bank/The World Wildlife Fund,
Washington, D.C., 1995.
2) Evaluaci6n del Potencial de los Servicios Ambientales en Pueblos
IndUgenas, RUTA, San Jose, Costa Rica, 2000.
3) Perfil Indigena de Panama/Eligio Alvarado; Unidad Regional de
Asistencia Tecnica (RUTA) y Ministerio de Gobierno y Justicia (MGJ) -
Panama, 2001.
2. Objectives
The overall goal of the proposed project is to support an emerging network
of indigenous communities engaged in integrated ecosystem management (IEM)
in the following Central American countries of Guatemala, Belize,
Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama. The project
would support actions to enhance the sustainability of key human-managed
systems that have been evolving for centuries in Central America,
conserving high levels of biodiversity, but that are under increasing
threat. It will assist to build community networks across the region that
would facilitate links between communities with established best practice
examples of IEM and those with comparable environmental characteristics
and similar potential for IEM. The project will incorporate traditional
indigenous knowledge (TK) in IEM through the mapping of indigenous
cultural uses of the land, the assessing of their sustainability and
participatory approaches to foster management plans that will assure
cultural and environmental sustainability. The long-term outcomes of the
project would be successful and proven regional models that are
effectively adopted in local and national initiatives, including World
Bank and IDB-assisted projects, and the emergence of a common vision among
indigenous communities on how best to manage their traditional resources.
Consistent with the MBC's strategic framework of actions and business plan
for the next five years, the project will support and expand the
initiatives of indigenous communities who inhabit priority areas of high
biodiversity and whose livelihoods are centrally linked to integrated
ecosystem management within the MBC. Accordingly, project activities will
focus on: (a) strengthening the capacity of these communities by promoting
an exchange of indigenous traditional knowledge and experience among them,
(b) consolidating cultural based management practices and standards across
the region to promote an institutional framework for the payment for
environmental services and conservation actions, and (c) encouraging
improved cultural based management practices in relation to government
protected areas.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The project is expected to contribute to a number of stategic areas which
are central to the Bank's poverty reduction mission. First, it would
build upon the experience in Central America and elsewhere in Latin
- 4 -



America regarding indigenous capacity-building, financed by the World Bank
through the IDF window. These funds have been highly successful in
transferring resources directly to indigenous community networks to
organize participatory training events and processes that accelerated
technical innovation and institutional development among indigenous
peoples, while building institutional capacity. The project therefore is
based on the experience that linkages among indigenous organizations are
an effective learning tool and addresses the fact that community members
lack trust in Government officials and some outside NGO agents that are
perceived as being opposed to their culture and way of life. Knowledge
and information-sharing across communities is efficient and creates
long-term networks for inter-community initiatives in Central America as
well as the MBC in Mexico.
Second, making indigenous communities and their networks the implementing
agents of a regional integrated ecosystem management initiative would
develop indigenous ownership and create synergies with the range of
ongoing national and local projects of sustainable development and
environment. This ownership enables action around an indigenous vision of
development, which contrasts to the dominant development model in that
quality of life is defined in terms of a specific ecological space and
according to specific cultural values towards resource management.
Third, by working regionally throughout the Central American MBC, the
project enables indigenous communities to work on a common IEM agenda with
more efficient use of financial and human resources that will enable them
to develop the perception of a Mesoamerican Cultural Corridor
complementary to MBC. The GEF alternative includes the regional studies
and networking necessary to develop institutional capacity for indigenous
IEM, and to create standards and criteria for activities that have a
potential or nascent market for payment of environmental services. There
are ample opportunities for capturing private sector resources for
sustainable resource management in indigenous regions by promoting the
certification of sustainable management and production through traditional
forestry and agro-forestry systems. This includes coffee, timber,
firewood, cacao, and other non-timber forest projects, the incorporation
of entrepreneurial skills to secondary transform raw materials to increase
income, as well as payment for environmental services through carbon
sequestration and water conservation regimes. These markets can be
complemented by ethno-tourism markets for adventure tourism, sale of
indigenous handicraft products in tourist markets, and small-scale
cultural tourism and through the finding of energy alternatives to replace
firewood cooking practices.
Fourth, the GEF alternative would provide information to adapt on-going
investment projects at the national level through tailoring community
subproject investments and protected areas management models to the
lessons emerging in the regional initiative. In the land tenure arena,
the regional dialogue and experiences would complement national land
modernization administration projects and help participating communities
make their choices within national frameworks based on wider knowledge.
In sum, the proposed regional project seeks to create an indigenous IEM
network in the region that complements the interchange among individual
communities at the local and national level, and which promotes an
- 5 -



exchange of technical services and models among indigenous professionals
within the region. It would strengthen the ability of baseline projects
to work in accordance with indigenous development and cultural interests,
as well as mobilize additional resources for the payment for environmental
services. It would complement national programs by financing support to
the emerging network of indigenous communities with common participatory
IEM goals and fostering a more systematic development of indigenous
standards and exchange of best practice models in similar ecosystems.
Careful attention would be paid to the selection of activities in specific
communities and regions to avoid duplication of effort and to partner with
other projects and programs for training, land tenure assistance, land-use
planning, standards setting and buffer zone activities. The project would
work in tandem with the land adjudication and policies for indigenous
lands that are being developed within national projects so that the
proposals being financed are in communities where tenure rights are clear
or can be clarified in the future. Parallel legal assistance will be
included for lands under public domain having indigenous management and
uses. The proposed project will also provide a forum for sharing
experiences and discussing possible solutions to specific issues, such as
land tenure or inter-ethnic issues, that are easier and less politically
sensitive to discuss on a regional level. The matrix in the table under
"Related Projects" outlines the relationship between the activities
included in the proposed regional project and those in the national MBC
GEF projects, land administration projects and medium-sized GEF projects
in the region.
4. Description
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (US$4.0
million, including contributions from other projects)
This component will support strengthening the capacity of participating
communities to assess the sustainability of their land use categories,
participate in conservation activities, both internally and in the
networks that they form to transfer skills, experience, and technical
knowledge across regions and countries in the MBC. The activities in this
component would be implemented by the Coordinadora IndUgena y Campesina de
AgroforesterUa Comunitaria (CICAFOC), the Consejo IndUgena de Centro
America (CICA), and the indigenous national federations and/or leader
communities in the project area. The component would support the
organization of inter-community training, internships from one community
to another in support of component 3 of the project, and on-line fora and
dissemination of information through written pamphlets and newsletters.
Technical assistance would also be provided on procurement and financial
management and accounting skills, when not covered by other projects, to
enable communities to develop the credibility needed for longer-term fund
management. This component would be co-financed by activities in the
projects with institutional strengthening components, such as the
municipal and social funds projects. Activities would include:
Output 1.1: Networks of indigenous communities engaged in sustainable IEM
formed across the region ($2 million)
Training for land mapping, zoning and regularization.
Training for community organizations and regional networks of
organizations holding their own inter-community experiential learning
events
On-line fora and training in software and internet connections.
- 6 -



Study tours and exchanges between communities with conservation and
sustainable use activities to exchange best practices and disseminate
models for participating in markets for environmental services.
Output 1.2: Standards and criteria for harmonization of management and
legal/policy frameworks ($1.0 million)
Legal studies analyzing the framework for land tenure rights in
community-managed lands, demarcation of lands and forests, demarcation and
regularization of cultural land use categories and delimitation of
community conservation reserves.
Technical assistance on land use planning, ecosystems management
standards and criteria, and monitoring and evaluation of resource status
and biodiversity.
Output 1.3: Technical assistance capacity and coordination capacity
developed in CICAFOC and its advisory "Wayib" council (see Project
Management section) ($1 million)
Technical assistance organized through CICAFOC, CICA and indigenous
national federations on financial management and accounting skills for
communities and their members.
Administration of the project and financial reporting.
Component 2: Community Conservation Areas and Management Plans ($2.0
million)
Under this component, communities would submit proposals for establishing
new community conservation areas in ecosystems which are of high priority
and where it is possible to replicate best practices from communities in
similar ecosystems in the MBC. The component will apply the standards and
criteria that have emerged from the Dutch Trust Fund for the Environment
initiative for human-managed ecosystems and will support technical
assistance by professionals from successful communities and through
consultation with involved communities, priority sites to be identified
during PDF B implementation and based on the estimated demand. Selection
criteria include: the characteristics and scope of communal areas,
vegetation, ecological importance as to the richness and number of endemic
species, coverage by other projects and financing, and the range of
indigenous knowledge for management and sustainable use. There would be
no geographic overlap with the GEF Protected Areas projects.
Participatory processes would be utilized in order to determine the most
effective types of protection or human management for each area (i.e.
management category), as well as the exact boundaries of the conservation
areas. Activities would include:
Output 2.1: Creation of community conservation systems (US$1.0 million)
Cultural land use plans for ecosystems, including mapping, demarcation,
participatory regularization processes and studies of resources and
biodiversity
Consultation and demarcation of community conservation areas, including
signs and physical markers for identification.
Legal assistance on cultural land tenure and collaboration with land
modernization and national titling initiatives.
- 7 -



Output 2.2: Development of management plans and biological zones (US$1.0
million)
Financing of small equipment or works for facilitating community
protection and guarding activities, i.e. fire towers, radio
communication, etc.
Studies of presence, extent and extractive potential of non-timber
forest products, including traditional hunting and gathering patterns and
their implications for management.
Monitoring studies to evaluate recuperation of resources over time and
develop management indicators, including monitoring of indicator species
Biological zoning within community territories and within ecozones
shared by communities within a specific region.
Component 3: Buffer Zone Activities and Establishment of Sustainable
Financial Mechanisms ($ 2.5 million)
This componet would finance on demand subroject investments for
sustainable use of ecological goods, according to clear criteria and
through participatory processes based on community interest. There are
previous experiences in Central America regarding sustainable community
biodiversity uses (i.e., Bio-Itza in Peten, Guatemala; Miskitos in Rio
Platano; Honduras, Bri-Bri in Talamanca, Costa Rica; and others). A few
of the options that seem promising based on background studies of cases in
Mexico and Central America include wildlife breeding, orchids, ethno
tourism, agro-forestry, bioprospecting, carbon sequestration, product
transformation, ethno and eco-tourism. It is expected that this component
would result in long-term benefits to communities and that it would be the
foundation of social sustainability as well as a major impulse for
conservation. This component would also finance studies, training and
preliminary efforts to establish markets for environmental services, such
as water or carbon, derived from community lands and to assess their
impact on indigenous traditional systems of reciprocity and
redistribution. During project implementation, biprospecting
guidelines/framework consistent with CBD policies would be developed to
formulate contract agreements between participant indigenous communities.
Drawing upon the experience in the design of the Mexico Biodiversity
Conservation in Indigenous and Community Lands project (COINBIO) and the
action plans developed by communities in the IDF-financed
capacity-building initiatives, the proposed regional project would
establish a window of indigenous community subproject financing by
channeling the project resources to a fund administered by an indigenous
council. Decision-making and monitoring of the fund would contribute to
build the capacity of indigenous communities in the region to
transparently absorb financial resources, develop capacity in elaborating
and monitoring subproject priorities and selection criteria, and
demonstrate that communities in the region are capable of developing and
managing their own initiatives. Drawing upon the Mexico indigenous and
community conservation model , the fund would provide small grants, but by
the end of the project it is expected that communities would begin to
leverage their own funds and attract new funding or payment of
environmental services and green enterprises.
While CICAFOC, CICA and indigenous national federations would coordinate
the technical assistance and training initiatives in components 1 y 2 (and
- 8-



4), a private financial agent would be identified during preparation to
administer the regional fund. The fund would match investments by
communities as well as provide matching funds for strategic subprojects
being partially financed by other projects. Component activities would
include:
Output 3.1: Development of pilot projects for sustainable use of
biodiversity and markets for ecological services (US$1.5 million)
Reforestation or afforestation with native species in areas contiguous
to priority ecological areas to increase carbon storage and restore areas
of priority biodiversity.
Sustainable management of natural forests.
Wildlife breeding and ex-situ cultivation of non-timber forest products;
bioprospecting.
Agro-forestry systems such as shade cocoa, coffee, organic cultivation,
with soil and water conservation measures.
Studies and other activities to facilitate certification of any of the
above or related activities.
Product secondary transformation alternatives.
Sustainable energy alternatives to firewood cooking.
Ethno and eco-tourism
Crafts
Output 3.2: Establishment of a Regional Community Conservation and
Sustainable Investment Fund ($1 million)
Implementation of an institutional structure and administrative
management system for creating the fund.
Establishing the decision-making council
Component 4: Participatory Project Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.5
million)
This component would include support for scientifically sound monitoring
and evaluation of biodiversity to follow project execution as well as
biodiversity changes over time. Baseline biological information would be
determined through in-depth biological assessments, but collaboration with
other complementary initiatives would be also sought. Evaluation
activities would include mid-term reviews and the documentation of lessons
learned to facilitate the dissemination of project findings to other
communities throughout the region
Output 4.1: Increased capacity in Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation
($0.5 million).
Networking studies to see how well information is being disseminated in
component.
Biological assessments and dissemination of assessment methodology.
Teams of project participants from other locations that monitor project
components.
Output 4.2: Market standards and criteria of payment for environmental
services and recurrent costs of IEM activities ($0.5 million).
-9-



Field tests for standards development.
Certification follow-up studies.
Output 4.3: Formulation and implementation of a M&E plan to measure and
evaluate project impacts associated with global benefits ($0.5 million).
development of indicators and methodology for M&E Plan training of users
of M&E system and implementation of the structure
Preliminary Project Cost and Financing Plan
Total project cost is estimated at US$28 million, of which GEF would
provide US$10 million, indigenous organizations would provide US$1.5
million, and Governments would provide US$1.5 million. The remaining US$15
million will be provided through World Bank and Inter-American Development
Bank co-financing from associated projects (US$10 and 5 million,
respectively) (see Table 1 below). The co-financing contributions from
the World Bank and the IDB will come from already approved projects which
support similar objectives although are being implemented separately. The
proposed project will build upon these parallel experiences and support
the replication of successful models of resource management and
biodiversity conservation. Therefore, the parallel financing will be
carefully identified to ensure that the maximum possible replicability
takes place via each of the 4 proposed project components. The Table on
"Related Projects" in section D.2. explains these linkages in greater
detail.
These figures are preliminary and include counterpart funding from the
current and soon to be approved land administration and land
regularization projects in the region, the upland agricultural programs
for producers settled in areas of forest vocation, the indigenous
institutional strengthening activities including legal assistance for land
rights included in the two possible indigenous LILs and complementary land
investments of the IDB. Overall, Government and World Bank/IDB financing
is expected to increase as the baseline is defined more clearly during
preparation.
Table 1: Project Financing
Component       Year 1 Year 2    Year 3 Year 4   Year 5   Total
GEF     Associated Financing (WB/IDB)
1. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building      800,000     800,000     800,000
800,000          800,000         4,000,000       2,000,000 (a)
2. Community Conservation Areas and Management Plans      400,000     400,000     400,000
400,000         400,000          2,000,000       3,000,000 (b)
3. Buffer Zone Activities and Establishment of Sustainable Financial
Mechanisms       500,000         500,000          500,000     500,000     500,000
2,500,000        6,000,000 (c)
4. Participatory Project Monitoring and Evaluation        300,000     300,000     300,000
300,000 300,000          1,500,000       4,000,000 (d)
Total   2,000,000        2,000,000       2,000,000        2,000,000   2,000,000   10,000,000
15,000,000
(a) Associated financing will come from World Bank and IDB land
administration and rural development projects in Guatemala, El Salvador,
Nicaragua, Honduras and Panama as well as decentralized municipal programs
- 10 -



under the social funds in these countries which include administrative
strengthening of indigenous communities. Linkages with the CEPF program
will also be explored.
(b) Associated financing will come from the Land Administration projects
in Honduras, Panama, Nicaragua, Guatemala and El Salvador which would
finance indigenous land delimitation and/or studies related to communal
land delimitation.
(c) Associated financing will come from World Bank and IDB natural
resource management projects working on buffer zone activities. The
proposed regional project would complement these by promoting exchanges
between model communities and other communities in the region.
(d) Associated financing will come from national rural development
projects in Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama
and from IDB projects in the region.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $1.50
IBRD $10.00
IDA
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $1.50
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $10.00
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK $5.00
Total Project Cost $28.00
6. Implementation
Overall responsibility for the GEF portfolio in Central America lies with
the GEF National Focal Points and the Central American Commission on
Environment and Development (CCAD). Oversight responsibility for
biodiversity, climate change and for the fight against desertification
also lies within CCAD. In the case of this project, legal responsibility
for natural resources lies with the customary laws of each indigenous
community as legitimated within the framework of national legislation and
land policies. As the regional technical voice of the indigenous
communities, CICAFOC's collaboration in all phases of preparation,
implementation and evaluation is crucial to the sustainability of the
activities. Micro-regional indigenous organizations' outreach and
technical capacity varies widely, requiring programs to develop flexible
operating mechanisms which permit working with both local, national and
regional indigenous organizations. During the inter-institutional meetings
held on the elaboration of the project proposal, the indigenous
representatives of the national indigenous councils (mesas) and the leader
indigenous communities agreed to form a permanent advisory council, or
"Wayib" in Mayan terminology, that would oversee and guide the proposed
regional project. The "Wayib" will include indigenous representation (to
be determined by the national councils), CICAFOC and CICA.
On a technical assistance level, a number of universities,
non-governmental organizations, producer organizations and private
researchers and service providers provide technical knowledge and services
within the MBC and will be incorporated through their relationship with
specific communities and subregions and with CICAFOC and the indigenous
council structure.
7. Sustainability



The proposed project strategy is intended to maximize the sustainability
of GEF-supported activities beyond the GEF funding period by focusing
capacity building on indigenous communities with IEM in Central America
and recognizing and capitalizing on the crucial role of regional
networking to expand the initiatives of national and local indigenous
organizations and indigenous producers. The project is based on
experience that training and capacity building have a more long-term
impact when communities themselves are the catalysts to transfer knowledge
and skills. Leader communities can maintain a training role that can be
sustained after project financing. Educational and training activities
will be complemented by a review of the legal and regulatory incentive
frameworks and a certification process piloted to provide indigenous
communities who engage in good ecosystem management with direct financial
returns. The project also builds long-term sustainability of cultural
based IEM in indigenous communities by supporting traditional institutions
and practices (i.e. traditional authorities, inter-community
associations, and adaptive technologies). This strategy reflects the
lessons learned from World Bank, IDB and GEF supported projects in Central
America which have attempted to introduce new technical approaches in
rural areas rather than relying on traditional institutions and
practices. Another important lesson learned for sustainability is the key
role of regional organizations (CICAFOC and CICA and national federations)
in mobilizing communities. For example, in the Bio-Itza Reserve, the
indigenous Bio-Itza Association has been instrumental in mobilizing and
organizing local communities to develop and implement biodiversity and
ecosystem management plans.
Financial sustainability of community conservation should be reasonable
since much of the community investment required is in the form of
community labor which is consistent with long-standing, traditional
indigenous systems of labor exchange for community maintenance. The
support of projects for sustainable use of ecological goods and services
that can be certified for marketing purposes increases the economic return
and market scope of these activities for communities. In addition,
administering the regional community conservation fund would increase the
capacity of indigenous communities to manage financial resources and
prepare and monitor subprojects, as well as demonstrate that communities
in the region are capable of developing and managing their own
initiatives. By the end of the project it is expected that communities
would begin to leverage their own funds and attract new funding or payment
of environmental services and other investments.
The following specific activities and outcomes would ensure sustainability
beyond the project period: (i) the improvement of local, national and
regional institutional capacity of indigenous peoples to assess and
integrate natural resource, biodiversity and carbon sequestration values
into development planning; (ii) the dissemination of strategic activities
at regional, national and community levels and demonstrated investments in
specific ecosystems to show the value of integrated management; (iii)
enabling indigenous communities to adapt their traditional indigenous
management systems to new needs and demands so that these can be sustained
into the future; (iv) creating an economy of scale at the regional level
among communities for private sector investment in products and services
in IEM; and (vi) disseminating lessons to national programs and the
general public within the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, so that the
- 12 -



indigenous IEM model is more widely understood. Sustainability is also
ensured by the fact that all project activities are consistent with the
MBC's strategic framework of actions and business plan for the next five
years.
Replicability
It is expected that some indigenous community integrated ecosystems would
be replicated within and between the countries participating in the MBC.
Specifically, experiences gained and best practices relating to
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources in these production
ecosystems, improved land and water management and soil fertility
techniques, enhanced productivity, and micro-watershed planning and
management would be disseminated to local (e.g. indigenous communities
organizations), national and international indigenous organizations. The
latter will be accomplished through the sharing of experiences that would
be conveyed by those directly involved in project development and
implementation (i.e., project personnel). Project support for the
dissemination of lessons learned envisioned under the proposed Component 1
would be consistent with the GEF Outreach Strategy and will help the
implementation of Article 8 (j) of the CBD. Specific resources would be
allocated to communicate the project's objectives, activities and results
to a wider regional audience. This would occur specifically through: (i)
community focused consultations and outreach to community, national and
regional level indigenous organizations and other stakeholders; (ii)
project staff (including indigenous professionals) to participate in
outreach within country and internationally; (iii) preparation of material
for the general public; and (iv) preparation of material for media.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Important lessons learned from activities associated with the regional MBC
initiative include the importance of involving local populations and
institutions (i.e., NGOs, local government, community and sectoral
organizations) in the design, implementation and distribution of benefits
of the project to ensure the long-term conservation of biodiversity, and
viewing the "biological corridor" concept within the broader context of
socio-cultural sustainable development in the region as a "cultural
corridor". These experiences have shown that conservation of natural
resources is only possible through integration of the local users of these
resources and support to their sustainable resource management. Any pure
conservation programs which do not consider and assure the participation
of the local population would give limited results and could even cause
negative environmental impacts due to adverse reactions from this
population. For this reason the participation of both the indigenous
peoples and the farmers living in the MBC is essential for the success of
this operation and other projects currently under implementation and
preparation in the region. To reach sustainable management of the natural
resources in the MBC, the subprojects and activities to be supported
within this framework must consider sustainability in a broader sense,
which means integrating environmental, socio-cultural , economic and
institutional sustainability.
Communal areas tend to achieve a higher level of sustainability than areas
that have been created through federal decrees because communities can use
- 13 -



their customary legal framework to establish long-term, legally binding
conservation areas supported by community sanctions. This community
conservation strategy is being fostered within the integrated forest
management strategy in the PROCyMAF project in Mexico, which has shown the
effectiveness and sustainability of biodiversity conservation planned
through participatory rural appraisals, participatory land use planning,
inter-community information sharing, forest management plans, and market
studies for non-timber forest products. Given appropriate support, many
communities throughout the region would be able to establish community
conservation areas and achieve greater biodiversity protection than would
likely occur under governmental management.
The World Bank IDF indigenous peoples training programs were highly
successful in transferring resources directly to indigenous community
networks to organize training events and in building their institutional
capacity. Horizontal learning among indigenous organizations has proven
to be very effective and has shown to work faster and create longer-term
networks for inter-community initiatives in Central America as well as
into the MBC in Mexico. Indigenous-led initiatives also address the issue
concerning indigenous communities' lack of trust in outside government and
NGO agents that are perceived as opposed to their culture and way of
life.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No major environmental impacts are envisioned in
this project. Specific issues and objectives will be determined during
preparation with PDF funds.
Endnote:
1. (Ostrom, 1999 Ostrom, E. 1999. Principios de diseno de sistemas
sostenibles de recursos gobernados por la comunidad. Santiago de Chile,
Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y TecnologUa, V Conferencia electr6nica y
exposici6n virtual en internet "De cara a la globalizaci6n: Organizaciones
econ6micas campesinas en America latina y el Caribe".
- 14 -



Annex 1
Environmental Issues Related to Biodiversity Conservation
in Indigenous Areas of the Central American Isthmus
Ecological Zones of Central America 1/
Countries and Main Indigenous Groups related to Ecozones       Biological Distinctiveness
(BD) at Regional Level and Regional Priority (RP) for Biodiversity Conservation
Environmental Issues     Interventions Needed to Reduce Environmental Problems in
Indigenous Communities Moist Forests of Tehuantepec
Area: 146,752 kmy        Mexico (Itza, Q'eqchi)
Guatemala (Itza, Q'eqchi, Mopan)
Belize (Q'eqchi, Mopan) Status: Endangered
BD: Regionally Outstanding
RP: Highest Priority at Regional Scale Threats: Oil exploration,
road building, national security road construction, expansion
of cattle ranching
This ecozone is the second largest in the region and is predominantly
inhabited by indigenous groups. In Mexico and Guatemala, it includes areas
of both agricultural and cattle raising expansion and ecotourism
investment, an obvious possibility for conflicting policies, strategies
and procedures. While ecotourism would need biodiversity, the present
economic situation of indigenous farmers puts pressures on production
systems which could certainly harm the environment and biodiversity.
In Belize, hillside agriculture poses serious threat to the environment
and biodiversity.        A, B, C, D, E, F, G, J, K, L. (See footnotes)
Pilot projects and/or plots to test sustainable ecosystem management
including agroforestry productions methods. Identification of cash crops
(like cocoa, banano, etc) with good market potential to alleviate pressure
on expanding crop lands. Identification of non-agricultural economic
activities. Coordination of bi- and tri-national project activities.
Central American Atlantic Moist Forest
Area: 155,020 kmy        Guatemala (Itza, Q'eqchi)
Honduras (Garifuna, Tol, Pesh, Miskito, Sumu)
Nicaragua (Sumu, Miskito, Garifuna)
Costa Rica (Bribri, Cabecar, Guaymi)
Panama (Bribri, Teribe, Guaymi, Embera-Wounaan) Status: Vulnerable
BD: Regionally Outstanding
RP: Moderate Priority at Regional Scale
Threats: Banana plantation and cattle ranching expansion, logging, forest
clearing, refugee settlements (Nicaragua), wildlife exploitation.
Degradation likely to increase.
The largest ecozone in the region, it goes from Guatemala to Panama and
includes a large number of indigenous groups. It is the main area of
action of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor. Climate and soils among
the best for expansion of agriculture and cattle raising. Forest clearing
for new banana plantations and cattle ranches.     A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L.
- 15 -



(See footnotes)
Complementary actions to the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor in the area
of improving indigenous agroecosystems incomes by identifying cashcrops
with good market potential. Bi-national strategeic actions, follow-up and
monitoring.
Central American Pine-Oak Forests
Area: 127,910 kmy        Guatemala (11 groups)
El Salvador (Pipil, Lenca)
Honduras (Lenca)         Status: Vulnerable
BD: Regionally Outstanding
RP: Moderate Priority at Regional Scale.
Threats: The zone is rapidly disappearing because of logging, firewood
gathering, agricultural expansion, and road building
This ecozone is the third largest. Densely inhabited by eleven indigenous
groups in Guatemala, it is a traditional area of indigenous agriculture.
Overexploitation of the forests for the export market in the past has made
precarious the sustainability of natural resources use throughout the
area. Poverty of indigenous groups puts pressure on exploitation of
natural resources, especially of forests.         A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K,
L. (See footnotes)
Pilot projects or actions in coordination with other development projects
being executed in the zone to improve sustainable use. Bi-national
actions, follow-up and monitoring.
Central American Pacific Dry Forests
Area: 50,101 kmy         Guatemala (Mam, Tzutujil)
El Salvador (Pipil, Lenca)
Honduras
Nicaragua
Costa Rica (Malekus, Matambo, Guaymi)     Status: Critical
BD: Regionally Oustanding
RP: High Priority at Regional Scale.
Threats: Grazing, burning, agricultural expansion.
An important ecozone cutting across five countries with a combined area
equal to Costa Rica's. The dry nature of its climate combined with
extensive cattle raising in certain areas turn critical status of this
ecozone. The presence of good soils on flat terrain attracts
commercial/export agriculture. Presence of indigenous groups is not as
important as in other zones.     A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L. (See footnotes)
Strong coordination among projects being executed in the zone. Pilot
actions and projects to show sustainable use of resources.
Isthmian-Pacific Moist Forests
Area: 28,881 kmy         Costa Rica (Guaymi, Brunkas, Teribes)
Panama (Guaymi) Status: Endangered
BD: Regionally Outstanding
RP: High Priority at Regional Scale.
Threats: Logging, mining, burning, pasture and agriculture expansion,
- 16 -



wildlife exploitation, pollution.
Concessions for mining and logging in Osa Peninsula in Costa Rica have
been strongly questioned by interested groups, causing the forest to be
considered as endangered. A large number of endemic species is under
threat of extinction. Cattle raising in Chiriqui (Panama) has caused
extensive forest clearing.
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L. (See footnotes)
Awareness and empowerment of indigenous groups to fight against
inappropriate use of resources. Public campaigns in favor of
sustainability and biodiversity conservation.
Miskito Pine Forests
Area: 15,064 kmy         Honduras (Miskito)
Nicaragua (Miskito, Sumu)         Status: Relatively Stable
BD: Regionally Outstanding
RP: High Priority at Regional Scale.
Threats: Industrial logging, firewood gathering, wildfires, burning.
It is the largest concentration of Pinus caribaea in the region. Relative
isolation of the area and indigenous communities together with limited
possibilities in agriculture lead to non-sustainable logging. Private
forestry concessions may harm sustainability of forestry. Urgent need for
land titling and demarcation as well as close supervision of industrial
logging.         A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L. (See footnotes)
Baseline studies and research to verify viability of replicating the
GEF-supported organic cocoa project of Talamanca on the Atlantic region
of Nicaragua.
Central American Montane Forests
Area: 7,676 kmy Mexico and Guatemala (9 indigenous groups)
El Salvador (Lenca, Cacaopera)
Honduras (Lenca)         Status: Endangered
BD: Regionally Outstanding
RP: High Priority at Regional Scale.
Threats: Agricultural expansion and clearing for pastures.
A most important ecoregion, cutting across many indigenous communities in
Southern Mexico and Guatemala. The area is densely populated. Poverty or
indigenous groups is forcing them to increase acreage in agricultural
practices at the expense of soil conservation methods. A, B, C, D, E, F,
G, H, I, J, K, L. (See footnotes)
Strategic actions and pilot projects of agroforestry to revert present
endangered status of the ecozone. Bi-national efforts and monitoring.
Talamancan Montane Forests
Area: 16,000 kmy         Costa Rica (Cabecar, Bribri, Guaymi)
Panama (Bribri, Guaymi) Status: Relatively stable
- 17 -



BD: Regionally Outstanding
RP: High Priority at Regional Scale.
Threats: Logging, burning, expansion of agriculture.
High number of endemic species of animals. Poverty of indigenous
communities is leading to expansion of agriculture on hillsides and
logging. Expansion of non-organic production of bananas on low lands.      C, E, D, F,
G, K. (See footnotes)
Recent GEF-supported project in the area proposes rehabilitation of
organic production of cocoa as a means to increase incomes and promote
biodiversity conservation.
Eastern Panamanian Montane Forests
Area: 2,905 kmy Panama (Kuna, Embera-Wounaan)
Colombia (Embera-Wounaan)         Status: Vulnerable
BD: Regionally Outstanding
RP: Moderate Priority at Regional Scale.
Threats: Mining, logging, exploitation of wildlife,
small-scale agriculture.
A region with many endemic species common to Central and South America.
Higher peaks covered with tropical cloud forest. Poverty of indigenous
groups leads to overhunting of wild life for subsistence and trade. Social
conflicts in Colombia have made the region unsafe for environmental
monitoring and biodiversity conservation. Activities such as gold mining
and wildlife hunting may go virtually undetected. Because of this, work in
the region is only possible through the indigenous communities and
organizations with long tradition of working , such as the Apostolic
Vicariate of Darien.     A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K. (See footnotes)
Agroecosystems of indigenous groups must be supported by production
services to increase incomes and alleviate pressure on the environment.
Establishment of cooperation with the Vicariate is recommended. Radio
programs on the environment and biodiversity conservation.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Juan Martinez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 506-255-4011
Fax: 506-222-6556
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
- 18 -



Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
January 10, 2003.
- 19 -



