Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054186 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Indigenous Integrated Ecosystem Management 
Regional  Project) 
 
between 
 
ASOCIACIÓN COORDINADORA INDÍGENA CAMPESINA  
DE AGRO FORESTERÍA COMUNITARIA 
(ACICAFOC) 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated January 14, 2005 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054186 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated January 14, 2005, between the 
ASOCIACIÓN 
COORDINADORA INDÍGENA CAMPESINA DE AGRO FORESTERÍA COMUNITARIA 
(ACICAFOC)
 (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to 
the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2; and 
 
(D) the 
ASOCIACIÓN COORDINADORA INDÍGENA CAMPESINA DE 
AGRO FORESTERÍA COMUNITARIA
 (ACICAFOC) is a civil association with valid 
legal personality duly registered in the 
Registro Público de Asociaciones de Costa Rica
 
(Costa Rican public registry of civil associations), with a legal personality identification 
number (ID) three-cero, cero, two-two hundred twenty eight thousand eight hundred sixty 
four (3-002-228864). 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated  May 
30, 1995 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and  (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and  4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
Section 10.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 10.01. Enforceability 
 
Neither the Bank nor the Borrower nor the Guarantor shall be 
entitled in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim 
that any provision of these General Conditions or of the Loan 
Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement is invalid or 
Page  4
3
unenforceable because of any provision of the Articles of 
Agreement of the Bank.”; 
 
(ii) 
Section 10.04 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 10.04. Arbitration 
 
Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which is 
not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by 
arbitration in accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules 
in force on the date of this Agreement.  The place of arbitration 
shall be Washington, D.C.  In the event of a conflict between the 
UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and the terms of this Agreement, 
the terms of this Agreement shall govern.”; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01  (6), 6.02 (f)  and  5.01 (a) thereof, means 
the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except 
that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
(v) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(vi) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(vii) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
 
(viii) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (o) in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen in which any further disbursement 
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the GEF.”; 
 
(ix) 
the words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of Section 
6.03 are replaced with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”; 
 
(x) 
the proviso at the end of Section 4.01 is deleted; 
 
Page  5
4
(xi) 
the words “member of the Bank which is the Borrower or the 
Guarantor” in Section 8.01 (b) are replaced by the words 
“Republic of Costa Rica”; and 
 
(xii) 
the words “the member of the Bank which is the Borrower or the 
Guarantor” in Section 9.01 (c) are replaced by the words “The 
Recipient”. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Work Program” means any of the annual work programs and 
budgets referred to in Section 3.08 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means Indigenous Peoples (as hereinafter defined) which 
meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual as beneficiaries of Subprojects (as 
hereinafter defined) under Part A of the Project; 
 
(c) “CCAD” 
means 
Comisión Centroamericana de Ambiente y Desarrollo
,
a
Central American commission for environment and development comprised of the 
ministers of environment of the Participating Countries and established via international 
treaty on February 14, 1989; 
 
(d) 
“CICA” means 
Consejo Indígena Centroamericano
,
a
Central American 
indigenous council comprised of Indigenous Peoples (as hereinafter defined), established 
through 
Acta Constitutiva
 (minutes of constitution) in 1993; 
 
(e) 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of 
a
particular Subproject (as hereinafter defined), had or would have their: (i) standard of 
living adversely affected; or (ii) right, title, interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) access to productive assets adversely 
affected, temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of 
residence or habitat adversely affected; 
 
(f) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Recipient’s environmental 
impact framework for the Project, dated July 6, 2004, that contains specific 
environmental rules and procedures for the Project, as said plan may be updated from 
time to time in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(g) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
Page  6
5
(h) 
“Grant Agreement” means any of the grant agreements to be entered into 
between the Liaison Organizations (as hereinafter defined) and a Beneficiary, or the 
Recipient and a Beneficiary (as the case may be), providing for a Subproject Grant; 
“Grant Agreements” means the plural thereof; 
 
(i) 
“Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means an indigenous peoples community or group, 
recognized as such pursuant to the respective Participating Country’s (as hereinafter 
defined) legal framework, which resides in the Project Area (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(k) 
“Liaison Organization” means an organization established and operating 
as a civil association (or other applicable entity with legal personality) in the Project Area 
(as hereinafter defined)
 
pursuant to the legal framework of the respective Participating 
Country (as hereinafter defined) and which is listed in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined) and any other organization that may be added to such list from time 
to time by agreement between the Bank and the Recipient; “Liaison Organizations” 
means the plural thereof; 
 
(l) 
“Model Forms” means the models set forth in the Operational Manual 
(as hereinafter defined), to be used in preparing Grant Agreements’; 
 
(m) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Participating Country” means any of Belize, the Republic of Costa Rica, 
the Republic of El Salvador, the Republic of Guatemala, the Republic of Honduras, the 
Republic of Nicaragua and the Republic of Panama; “Participating Countries” means all 
of said countries;  
 
(o) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.06 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators, set forth in the 
Operational Manual, for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the attainment of 
Project objectives; 
 
(q) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated June 
26, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
 
Page  7
6
(r) 
“Project Area” means the eco-regions of Maya, Humid Atlantic, Dry 
Pacific, Sumo-Miskita, Talamanca-Bocas, and Darién-Kuna located in the territories of 
the Participating Countries and selected during the preparation of the Project; 
 
(s) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Recipients’ detailed action 
plan for the implementation of the Project, dated June 26,2004; 
 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(u) 
“Subproject” means a set of activities carried out under Part A of the 
Project, which set is selected, approved and implemented in accordance with the 
requirements of the Operational Manual; and 
 
(v) 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made either by 
the Recipient, or by the Recipient through the Liaison Organizations, out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to a Beneficiary for the financing of a Subproject pursuant 
to the terms of the Operational Manual. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount  equal to four million Dollars ($4,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods , works and services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 1, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Page  8
7
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project:  
 
(a) 
with the assistance of the Liaison Organizations (pursuant to the 
Implementation Agreements), as indicated in Section 3.05 (a) to this Agreement; or  
 
(b) 
on its own behalf, as indicated in Section 3.05 (b) to this Agreement
,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, financial, legal, ecological, environmental, productive, social and 
conservation practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Recipient and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) the Environmental Management Plan; 
(ii) the Operational Manual; and (iii) the Project Implementation Plan, as applicable, so 
as to meet the Performance Indicators. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, without limitation to the other provisions of this 
Agreement, carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual, satisfactory 
to the Bank and to be prepared by the PCU, containing, inter alia: (i) the Procurement 
Plan; (ii) the Performance Indicators; (iii) the list of Liaison Organizations; (iv) a model 
Implementation Agreement; (v) the financial management arrangements and procedures 
for the Project; (vi) scope and content of the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.09 
(c) of this Agreement; and (vii) requirements for the selection, approval and 
implementation of Subprojects, including eligibility criteria, Subproject cycle and the 
Model Forms. 
 
Page  9
8
(c) 
The Operational Manual may be amended by the Recipient from time to 
time, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate continued Project implementation.  
If any provision of the Operational Manual or the Project Implementation Plan is 
inconsistent with a provision of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall 
prevail. 
 
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall enter into separate implementation agreements, one with 
each of the corresponding Liaison Organizations, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, said implementation agreements to include, inter alia, the obligation each 
Liaison Organization to: (i) promote and facilitate the Project in the Project Area; (ii) 
select and screen Subproject proposals; (iii) submit Subproject proposals to the PCU for 
their respective approval; (iv) execute its respective Grant Agreements or implement 
Subprojects (as the case may be); (v) assist the Recipient in the implementation of the 
corresponding Annual Work Program and in complying with its obligations to the Bank 
under this Agreement; and (vi) follow the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each Implementation Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Implementation 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
(c) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of any Implementation 
Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.  
 
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of carrying out a Subproject, the Recipient: 
 
(a) 
through a Liaison Organization shall, either: 
 
(i) 
(A) 
enter into a Grant Agreement with a Beneficiary in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
Operational Manual and the Model Forms; 
 
(B) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under 
any Grant Agreement, in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
and 
 
(C) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, 
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Grant 
Agreements or any provision thereof;  
 
(ii) 
implement the Subproject on behalf of a Beneficiary. 
Page  10
9
(b) 
on its own behalf, either: 
 
(i) 
(A) 
enter into a Grant Agreement with a Beneficiary in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
Operational Manual and the Model Forms;  
 
(B) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under 
any Grant Agreement, in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
and 
 
(C) 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, 
amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Grant 
Agreements or any provision thereof ; or  
 
(ii) 
implement the Subproject on behalf of a Beneficiary. 
 
Section 3.06.  Throughout the course of Project implementation, the Recipient 
shall maintain and continue to operate a Project coordination unit as part if the 
Recipients’ organizational structure.  The Recipient shall ensure that the PCU is staffed at 
all times during the implementation of the Project by core professional staff in numbers 
and with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank (including, without 
limitation, a project coordinator, a procurement officer, an accountant and an 
administrative assistant), operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and 
selected in accordance with competitive and transparent procedures satisfactory to the 
Bank, all as prescribed in the Operational Manual. 
 
Section 3.07.  The Recipient shall maintain until the completion of the Project a 
council with responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank including, inter alia, 
overall Project oversight and coordination and the approval of the Annual Work 
Programs, such council to be comprised of representatives of ACICAFOC, CCAD and 
CICA.  
 
Section 3.08. (a) the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
not later than October 31 of each year, furnish to the Bank, for 
its review and approval, a proposed annual work program and 
budget, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared in consultation with 
the council referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement; such 
program to specify the activities to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the relevant 
calendar year for the purposes of the implementation of the 
Project; and 
 
Page  11
10
 
(ii) 
upon
the Bank’s approval, carry out such Annual Work Program, 
as approved by the Bank. 
 
(b) 
The Bank may refrain from approving any Annual Work Program if the 
Bank has determined that the Recipient is not carrying out the Project as provided in this 
Agreement and no appropriate remedial actions, satisfactory to the Bank, have been taken 
therefor. 
 
Section 3.09.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan to ensure continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan; and 
 
(c) 
carry out an in-depth Project review (the mid-term review), jointly with 
the Bank, of such scope as set forth in the Operational Manual, on the progress achieved 
in the implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 3.10. The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, for each year during the implementation of the Project, annual reports 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the execution of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of each said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by January 15 of each year during the 
implementation of the Project or such later date as the Bank shall request, each report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.11. (a)  Prior to the approval of any Subproject involving civil works to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the Recipient shall apply 
Page  12
11
 
the Environmental Management Plan in order to: (i) carry out an environmental screening 
and assessment of such Subproject, as prescribed in the Operational Manual; and (ii) 
prepare recommendations for the prevention, mitigation and remediation of any potential 
environmental damage arising from the implementation of such Subproject. 
 
(b) 
During the implementation of such Subproject, the Recipient shall have 
the recommendations of said environmental assessment carried out as prescribed in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
Section 3.12.  In the event that the findings of the environmental assessment to be 
carried out as part of the identification of each Subproject indicate that resettlement of 
population is required in the area in which a particular Subproject will be carried out 
and/or that individuals living in such area will become Displaced Persons as a result of 
the carrying out of such Subproject, the Recipient shall prior to the carrying out of such 
Subproject: (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank a resettlement action plan or a natural 
resources management action plan, as the case may be, for such Displaced Persons, both 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) promptly thereafter, carry out the corresponding action 
plans referred to in (i) herein in accordance with their terms. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) above 
for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
Page  13
12
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.10 (b) of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, and explains variances between the actual 
and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and 
planned Project implementation ; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Page  14
13
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:  
 
(a) 
that the Operational Manual has been issued and put into effect; 
 
(b) 
that the PCU has been properly staffed as set forth in Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
that a financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have 
been established by the Recipient and become operational. 
 
Section 5.02. The date April 14, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The President of the Recipient is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
ACICAFOC 
Apartado Postal/P.O. Box 2089-1002 
San José, Costa Rica 
 
Facsimile: 
(506) 241-1996 
Page  15
14
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  16
15
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ASOCIACIÓN COORDINADORA INDÍGENA CAMPESINA 
 
DE AGRO FORESTERÍA COMUNITARIA (ACICAFOC) 
 
By  /s/ Fredy Molina Sanchineli 
Authorized Representative 
 
By  /s/ Francis Mora Zúñiga 
Authorized Representative 
 
By  /s/ Alberto Chinchilla Cascante 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By  /s/ Ulrich Zachau 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  17
16
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in  
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
80,000 
91% 
 
(2) Consultant 
Services 
1,700,000 
91% 
 (including 
audits 
referred 
 
to in Section 4.01(b) of 
 this 
Agreement) 
 
(3) Training 
950,000 
91% 
 
(4) 
Subprojects 
590,000 
91% of the cost 
 
of
goods, works and 
 
services (including 
 
training) included 
 
in a Subproject 
 
(5) Operating 
costs 
595,000 
91% 
 
(6) Unallocated 
85,000 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL 4,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the tem “operating costs” means the non-
consultant expenditures incurred by the Recipient in connection with the daily operation 
of the PCU, including salaries of incremental PCU staff, maintenance of equipment and 
vehicles, rental of office facilities, office utilities, supplies and materials and travel and 
per diem of PCU staff, which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the 
Project. 
Page  18
17
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $150,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
June 26,2004;and (b) any expenditure under Category (4) in the table in paragraph 1 
above, unless there is an Implementation Agreement in place, and a Grant Agreement (in 
case a Beneficiary carries out the Subproject). 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: 
(a) goods costing less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than 
$25,000 equivalent per contract; (d) services of consulting firms costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; (e) Subprojects (except the first two); and (f) operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used. 
Page  19
18
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to achieve a more comprehensive ecosystem 
management by strengthening the capacity of the Indigenous Peoples to protect and 
manage their natural and cultural resources. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
 
Part A
:
Market Creation
Carrying out of activities in support of the development of Indigenous Peoples’ products, 
markets and services to promote environmental sustainability in the Project Area, 
including: 
 
1. 
quantifying and marketing a consolidated supply of traditional products; 
 
2. 
exploring opportunities to create markets for consolidated environmental services 
provided by Indigenous Peoples; 
 
3. 
identifying and marketing consolidated community based eco/ethno tourism 
routes and projects; and 
 
4. 
identifying, evaluating and marketing community projects for traditional 
ecosystem management. 
 
Part B
:
Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation
Carrying out of activities to monitor and evaluate the Project’s progress and 
impact on conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity; including: 
 
1. 
capacity building for participatory monitoring and evaluation of the Project’s 
global impacts and benefits (including impacts on human development); 
 
2. 
Project implementation progress monitoring and evaluation; and 
 
3. 
evaluating intervention models based on cultural values and traditional 
management practices developed by Indigenous Peoples over the centuries. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 1, 2009. 
Page  20
19
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines.  The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the respective Beneficiary and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$250,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $1,500,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines.  
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  21
20
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting referred to in paragraphs 3.6 and 3.7 of the 
Procurement Guidelines  may, with the bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services rendered by consulting firms shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines and the following provision: for 
purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list  of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than US $200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultants Guidelines for single source 
selection, may, with the bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultants Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may, with the bank’s prior agreement, be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-
source basis. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  22
21
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $250,000 to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Page  23
22
 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
Page  24
23
 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
