ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Frce! of Poverty R
InfoShop
1fi *'1ald 113r1A
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/19/2002                           25325
Section I - Basic Information                           December 19, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country. CENTRAL AMERICA                         Project ID P075219
Project: GEF 6C-lndigenous&Community Biodiversity  Task Team Leader: Juan Martinez
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 27, 2003        IBRD Amount ($m): 10.00
Bank Approval: October 7, 2003                   IDA Amount ($m)
Managing Unit: LCSEO                              Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  sector (100%)
Status. Lending                                  Theme. Indigenous peoples (P), Biodiversity (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall goal of the GEF alternative is to support an emerging network of indigenous communities
en1gaged in integrated ecosystem management (IEM) in the Central American region (Guatemala, Belize,
Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama) This would enhance the sustainability of
human-managed systems that have been evolving for centuries in Central America, conserving high
levels of biodiversity, but that are under increasing threat. The building of community networks across
the region would create links between communities with established best practice examples of IEM and
those with comparable environmental characteristics and similar potential for IEM. The project will
incorporate traditional knowledge (TK) in IEM through the mapping of indigenous cultural uses of the
land, the assessing of their sustainability and participatory approaclhes to foster management plans that
will assure cultural and environmental sustainability. The long-term outcome would be that successful
and proven regional models are effectively adopted in local and national initiatives, including World
Bank and IDB-assisted projects, and that a common vision emerges among indigenous communities on
how best to manage their traditional resources.
The project will support and expand the initiatives of indigenous communities who inhabit priority areas
of high biodiversity and whose livelihoods are centrally linked to integrated ecosystem management
within the MBC. The activities are designed to: (a) strengthen the capacity of these communities by
promoting an exchange of indigenous traditional knowledge and experience among them, (b) consolidate
cultural based management practices and standards across the region to foment an institutional
framework for the payment for environimental services and conservation actions, and (c) encourage
improved cultural based management practices in government protected areas.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (US$4.0 million)
This component entails strengthening the capacity of participating communities to assess the



2
ISDS
sustainability of their land use categories, participate in conservation activities, both internally and in the
networks that they form to transfer skills, experience, and technical knowledge across regions and
countries in the MBC. The activities in this component would be implemented by CICAFOC, CICA and
the indigenous national federations and/or leader communities in the project area and would entail the
organization of inter-community training, internships from one community to another in support of
components 3 of the project, and on-line forums and dissemination of information through written
pamphlets and newsletters. Technical assistance would also be provided on procurement and financial
management and accounting skills, where not covered by other projects, to enable communities to
develop the credibility needed for longer-term fund management. This component would be co-financed
by activities in the projects with institutional strengthening components, such as the municipal and social
funds projects, and the possible indigenous strengthening LIL projects.
Output 1.1. Networks of indigenous communities engaged in sustainable IEM formed across the region
($2 million)
* Training for land mapping, zoning and regularization.
* Training for community organizations and regional networks of organizations holding their own
inter-community experiential learning events
* On-line forums and training in software and internet connections.
* Study tours and exchanges between communities with conservation and sustainable use activities to
exchange best practices and disseminate models for participating in markets for environmental services.
Output 1.2: Standards and criteria for management and legal/policy frameworks harmonized ($1.0
imnillion)
* Legal studies analyzing the framework for land tenure rights in community-managed lands, demarcation
of lands and forests, demarcation and regularization of cultural land use categories and delimitation of
community conservation reserves.
* Technical assistance on land use planning, ecosystems management standards and criteria, and
monitoring and evaluation of resource status and biodiversity.
Output 1.3: Technical assistance capacity and coordination capacity developed in CICAFOC and the
advisory "Wayib" council (see Project Management section) ($1 million)
* Technical assistance organized through CICAFOC, CICA and indigenous national federations on
financial management and accounting skills for communities and their members
* Administration of the project and financial reporting.
Component 2: Community Conservation Areas and Management Plans ($2.0 million)
Under this component, communities would submit proposals for establishing new community
conservation areas in ecosystems which are of high priority and where it is possible to replicate best
practices from communities in like ecosystems in the MBC. Applying the standards and criteria that
have emerged from the Dutch Trust Fund for the Environment initiative for human-managed ecosystems
and fostering technical assistance by professionals from successful communities and through consultation
with involved communities, priority sites would be identified during PDF B implementation and the
estimated demand. Selection criteria including: the characteristics and scope of communal areas,
vegetation, ecological importance as to the richness and number of endemic species, coverage by other
projects and financing, and the range of indigenous knowledge for management and sustainable use.
There would be no geographic overlap with the GEF Protected Areas projects. Participatory processes
would be utilized in order to determine the most effective types of protection or human management for
each area (i.e. managemilent category), as well as the exact boundaries of the conservation areas
Activities would include:



3
ISDS
Output 2.1. Creation of community conservation systems (US$1.0 million)
* Cultural land use plans for ecosystems, including mapping, demarcation, participatory regularization
processes and studies of resources and biodiversity
* Consultation and demarcation of community conservation areas, including signs and physical markers
for identification.
* Legal assistance on cultural land tenure and collaboration with land modernization and national titling
initiatives.
Output 2.2: Development of management plans and biological zones (US$ 1.0 million)
* Financing of small equipment or works for facilitating community protection and guarding activities,
i.e. fire towers, radio communication, etc.
* Studies of presence, extent and extractive potential of non-timber forest products, including traditional
hunting and gathering patterns and their implications for management.
* Monitoring stuclies to evaluate recuperation of resources over time and develop management indicators,
including monitoring of indicator species
* Biological zoning within community territories and within ecozones shared by communities within a
specific region.
Component 3: Buffer Zone Activities and Establishment of Sustainable Financial Mechanisms ($
2.5 million)
Projects for sustainable use of ecological goods and services would be financed on demand, according to
clear criteria and through participatory processes based on community interest. One important criteria
will be that in geographic areas where GEF and other donors are financing sustainable use activities,
activities that are already being supported would not be eligible.
There are previous experiences in Central America regarding sustainable community biodiversity uses
(i.e., Bio-Itza in Peten, Guatemala; Miskitos in Rio Platano; Honduras, Bri-Bri in Talamanca, Costa Rica;
and others). A few of the options that seem promising based on background studies of cases in Mexico
and Central America include wildlife breeding, orchids, ethno tourism, agro-forestry, bioprospecting,
carbon sequestration and product transformation. It is expected that this component would result in
long-term benefits to communities and that it would be the foundation of social sustainability as well as a
major impulse for conservation. This component would also finance studies, training and preliminary
efforts to establish markets for environmental services, such as water or carbon, derived from community
lands and to assess their impact on indigenous traditional systems of reciprocity and redistribution.
During project implementation, biprospecting guidelines/framework consistent with CBD policies would
be developed to formulate contract agreements between participant indigenous communities.
Drawing upon the experience in the design of the Mexico Biodiversity Conservation in Indigenous and
Community Lands project (COINBIO) and the action plans developed by communities in the
IDF-financed capacity-building initiatives, the proposed regional project would establish a window of
indigenous community subproject financing by channeling the project resources to a fund administered
by an indigenous council. Decision-making and monitoring of the fund would contribute to build the
capacity of indigenous communities in the region to transparently absorb financial resources, develop
capacity in elaborating and monitoring subproject priorities and selection criteria, and demonstrate that
communities in the region are capable of developing and managing their own initiatives. Drawing upon
the Mexico indigenous and community conservation model , the fund would be a small grants fund, but
by the end of the project it is expected that communities would begin to leverage their own funds and
attract new funding or payment of environmental services and green enterprises. At that time, the
advisory council can determine whether continuation of the fund at regional level is productive, or



4
ISDS
whether communities should seek funding individually or in small groups.
While CICAFOC, CICA and indigenous national federations would coordinate the technical assistance
and training initiatives in components 1, 2 and 4, a private financial agent would be identified during
preparation to administer the regional fund. The fund would match investments by communities as well
as provide matching funds for strategic subprojects being partially financed by other projects
Output 3.1: Development of pilot projects for sustainable use of biodiversity and markets for ecological
services (US$1.5 million)
* Reforestation or afforestation with native species in areas contiguous to priority ecological areas to
increase carbon storage and restore areas of priority biodiversity.
* Sustainable management of natural forests.
* Wildlife breeding and ex-situ cultivation of non-timber forest products, bioprospecting.
* Agro-forestry systems such as shade cocoa, coffee, organic cultivation, with soil and water conservation
measures.
* Studies and other activities to facilitate certification of any of the above or related activities
* Product secondary transformation alternatives.
* Sustainable energy alternatives to firewood cooking.
Output 3.2: Establishment of a Regional Community Conservation and Sustainable Investment Fund ($1
million)
* Implementation of an institutional structure and administrative management system for creating the
fund.
* Establishing the decision-making council
Component 4: Participatory Project Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.5 million)
This component would include support for scientifically sound monitoring and evaluation of biodiversity
to follow project execution as well as biodiversity changes over time. Baseline biological information
would be detenrined through in-depth biological assessments and collaboration with other
complementary initiatives would be sought. Evaluation activities would include mid-term reviews and
the documentation of lessons learned to facilitate the dissemination of project findings to other
communities throughout the region
Output 4. 1: Increased capacity in Participatory Monitoring and Evaluation ($0.5 million)
* networking stuclies to see how well information is being disseminated in component.
* biological assessments and dissemination of assessment methodology.
* teams of project participants from other locations that monitor project components.
Output 4.2: Market standards and criteria of payment for environmental services and recurrent costs of
IEM activities ($0 5 million).
* field tests for standards development.
* certification follow-up studies.
Output 4.3 Formulation and implementation of a M&E plan to measure and evaluate project impacts
associated with global benefits ($0.5 million) development of indicators and methodology for M&E
Plan training of users of M&E system and implementation of the structure
Preliminary Project Cost and Financing Plan
Total project cost is estimated at US$28 million, of which US$10 million represents World Bank



5
ISDS
financing from associated projects and US$5 million represents Inter-American Development Bank
financing from associated projects (see Table I below). The parallel contributions from the World Bank
and the IDB come from projects which support similar objectives although are implemented separately.
The present project will build upon these parallel experiences and support the replication of successful
models of resource management and biodiversity conservation. Therefore, the parallel financing will be
carefully identified to ensure that the maximum possible replicability takes place via each of the 4
proposed project components. Table on related projects (D.2.) explains these linkages in greater detail.
GEF would provide US$10 million, indigenous organizations would provide US$1.5 million, and
Governments would provide US$1.5 million. These figures are preliminary and include counterpart
funding from the land administration and land regularization projects, the upland agricultural programs
for producers settled in areas of forest vocation, the indigenous institutional strengthening activities
including legal assistance for land rights included in the two possible indigenous LILs and
complementary land investments of the IDB. Overall, Government and World Bank financing is
expected to increase as the baseline is defined more clearly during preparation.
Table 1: Project Financing
Component         Year 1    Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5    Total       Associated
GEF         Financing
(WB/IDB)
1. Institutional     800,000     800,000   800,000     800,000   800,000    4,000,000  2,000,000 (a)
Strengthening and
Capacity Building
2. Community         400,000     400,000   400,000     400,000    400,000   2,000,000  3,000,000 (b)
Conservation Areas
and Management
Plans
3. Buffer Zone       500,000    500,000    500,000     500,000   500,000    2,500,000 6,000,000
Activities and                                                                            (c)
Establishment of
Sustainable
Financial
Mechanisms
4. Participatory     300,000     300,000   300,000     300,000    300,000   1,500,000  4,000,000 (d)
Project Monitoring
and Evaluation
Total           2,000,000  2,000,000  2,000,000   2,000,000  2,000,000  10,000,000   15,000,000
(a) Associated financing will come from World Bank and IDB land administration and rural development projects in
Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras and Panama as well as decentralized municipal programs under the
social funds in these countries which include administrative strengthening of indigenous communities Linkages with
the CEPF program will also be explored
(b) Associated financing will come from the Land Administration projects in Honduras, Panama, Nicaragua,
Guatemala and El Salvador which would finance indigenous land delimitation and/or studies related to communal
land delimitation.
(c) Associated financing will come from World Bank and IDB natural resource management projects working on
buffer zone activities The proposed regional project would complement these by promoting exchanges between
model communities and other communities in the region.
(d) Associated financing will come from national rural development projects in Guatemala, Belize, Honduras,



6
ISDS
Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama and from IDB projects in the region.
Components:
1. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
2 Community Conservation Areas and Management Plans
3. Buffer Zone Activities and Establishment of Sustainable Financial Mechanisms
4 Participatory Project Monitoring and Evaluation
L.A 4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Central American region is a land bridge connecting North America and South America, composed
of seven relatively small countries which base their economies on agriculture and use of natural
resources. As discussed earlier, Central America has a broad natural richness and high biodiversity, a
distinct, heterogeneous character regarding terrain, climate and perhaps a higher propensity for natural
disasters than any other territory on the planet. Central America is also one of the world's richer regions
in culture and traditions. It is pluri-cultural and multi-lingual, with more than 50 distinct indigenous
groups, making up a total indigenous population of more than 6 million people. In Mesoamerica, a close
relationship has been demonstrated between indigenous territories and biologically and ecologically
important areas of the region, such as the centers of plant diversity and endemic species distinguished by
the IUCN. There is a clear correspondence in Central America between areas of remaining tropical
forests and the presence of indigenous communities (see table in Sector Issues).
From Guatemala to Panama, there are at least ten main ecological zones of importance for biodiversity
conservation. The most relevant to the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor are the Atlantic Humid
Forests, the Humid Forests of Tehuantepec (Mexico, Guatemala and Belize), the various mountain
forests from Guatemala to Panama, and the coastal areas. It is necessary for the sustainable use of
natural resources in the region that these eco-regions form a physical continuum from North to South.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comrments- The B category recognizes the need to adress the social and indigenous issues of the indigenous
communities located in priority ecosystems areas The project will demonstrate that actions to address
ecosystems community management can be linked to local community development. The environmental
impact of the management plans and community subprojects is limited and will be addressed through
Environmental Community Management Guidelines
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                 Applicability



7
ISDS
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     * Yes '-No       TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        *Yes     No     TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                *Yes     No      TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                    Yes *No       TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    *Yes ONo        TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        * Yes C No       TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes * No      TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4 1 1)                                   Yes *No       TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*            ^ Yes * No     ^ TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       T      Yes * No _   TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
None
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumuiative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None
II.D.2 In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not Required
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
To be detenrmied during preparation with PDF funds.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
During preparation of the project concept, relevant indigenous organizations, coordinated by CICAFOC
(Regional Indigenous Agroforestry Council) and CICA (Indigenous Council of Central America), were
actively involved in the process. After extensive discussions between CICAFOC, CICA, CCAD (Central
American Commission on the Environment and Development), RUTA, Fondo Indigena, World Bank and
IDB, RUTA prepared the first draft of the concept note. Consultative discussions were held throughout
the process, ilcluding a workshop held in Guatemala in September 2000 to develop Central American
standards for community biodiversity and ecosystems management and a workshop with participation of
the above-mentioned organizations in Costa Rica in February 2001. These consultations included (i) a
preparation meeting with representatives of the main indigenous regional organizations; (ii) discussions
with the National GEF Focal Points and CCAD (so far, Guatemala and Honduras have officially
endorsed the project, while endorsements from the remaining five National GEF Focal Points are
expected in April 2001); (iii) discussions between the IDB and World Bank regarding joint



8
ISDS
implementation; and (iv) dialogue between staff from CCAD and environmental ministers involved in the
implementation of national projects (PROBAP in Honduras, Ecomarkets in Costa Rica, etc.) and other
projects with potential to be included in the baseline.
Participatory approaches will be utilized extensively during the project preparation (PDF B) and
implementation phases. A series of consultative workshops at the regional, national and local levels is
planned for the PDF B phase, involving community indigenous organizations, key national and
international NGOs working in environmental and sustainable agriculture issues, private sector producer
associations, sectoral planning coordination groups, and selected municipal mayors, indigenous leaders
and other stakeholders. These consultations would establish an agreement on a participation plan to be
followed during implementation.
Building on CICAFOC and baseline activities to be defined during preparation, the project would
provide incremental training to all levels of indigenous representation at local, regional and national
levels on participatory techniques in problem identification, priority setting, and design of solutions.
Related activities are expected to include project-planning workshops, participatory information
gathering, focus groups, interviews, and sectoral meetings, and would be consistent with the GEF policy
on public involvement.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
] S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



9
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan           Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 4/30/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             5/1/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              5/1/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framewvork:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan                                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader             Juan Martinez                                12/17/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Ricardo Hernandez/Person/World Bank    12/17/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Salomon Nahmad                         12/17/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                         12/17/02
Sector Manager/Director:      Shelton H. Davis                            12/17/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEDBACK      SUiE MAP       SHOWCASE



