                                               Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                     ReportNo: 30213




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                           PROPOSEDGRANT

                    FROMTHE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                                INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$4.0MILLION

                                                 TO THE

   CENTRAL AMERICA INDIGENOUSAND PEASANTCOORDINATION ASSOCIATION FOR
                                    COMMUNITY AGROFORESTRY
         (ASOCIACIONCOORDINADORAINDIGENA Y CAMPESINADE AGROFORESTERlA
                          COMM1I7vTARLA CONTROAMENCANA(ACICAFOC))

                                                 FORAN

          INTEGRATEDECOSYSTEMMANAGEMENT ININDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES

                              CENTRAL AMERICA REGIONAL PROJECT

                                            November 11,2004


Environmentallyand Socially SustainableDevelopmentSector ManagementUnit
CentralAmerica CountryManagementUnitKaribbean Country ManagementUnit
Latin Americaand the CaribbeanRegion


This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS



                            (Exchange Rate Effective October 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Costa Rican col6n (project includes 7 countries
                                                   with PCUbased inCosta Rica)

                                         US$1 = 450 colones

                                         FISCALYEAR
                                     January 1 -- December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ACICAFOC  CentralAmerican IndigenousandPeasantCoordination Association for Community Agroforestry
          (Asociacidn CoordinadoraIndigenay Campesina deAgroforesteria Communitaria
          Centroamericana)
CAS       Country assistance strategy
CBD       Convention on Biological Diversity
CCA       Community conservationarea
CCAD      Central American Commission for Environment andDevelopment(Comisidn Centroamericanade
          Ambiente y Desarrollo)
CICA      CentralAmerica Indigenous Council (Consejo Indigena Centroamericano)
CLAN      Cultural LandUse Analysis
DANIDA    DanishInternational Development Agency
EA        Environmental assessment
EMF       Environmental management framework
FMR       Financial management report
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GIS       Geographic information system
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
IDA       International Development Association
IEM       Integratedecosystem management
ILO       International Labour Organization
ISA       International Standards of Auditing
LO        Liaisonorganization
MBC       MesoamericanBiologicalCorridor
MSP       Medium-size GEF project
NGO       Nongovernmental organization
ONECA     Black Organization of Central America (OrganizacidnNegra Centroamericana)
PCU       Project coordination unit
QAT       Quality AssuranceTeam (of the LatinAmerica and the CaribbeanRegional Office)
RUTA      Regional Unitfor Technical Assistance
SA        Specialaccount
SOE       Statement of expenses

L                                                                                                .i
                               Vice President:      Davidde Ferranti
                                                                                                    ~


                                                                                                    1
                  Country Manager/Director:         Jane Armitage                                   I


                    Sector Managermirector:         John Redwood                                    i
                                Sector Leader:      MartinRaine
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Juan Martinez

                                                                  FOR0"             USEONLY


                                          CENTRALAMERICA
        INTEGRATEDECOSYSTEMMANAGEMENTININDIGENOUSCOMMUNITIES


                                               CONTENTS

                                                                                           Page

  A. ProjectDevelopmentObjective

     1. Project development objective                                                        3
     2. Key performance indicators                                                           3

  B. Strategic Context

     1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       4
     2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                            6
     3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                    10

  C. Project Description Summary

     1. Project components                                                                   11
     2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project                         13
     3. Benefits and target population                                                       14
     4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                         14

  D.Project Rationale

     1, Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection                             16
     2. Major related projects financed bythe Bank and/or other development agencies         17
     3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                   18
     4. Indications of borrower and recipientcommitment and ownership                        20
     5. Value added of Bank and Global support inthis project                                20

  E.Summary ProjectAnalysis

     1. Economic                                                                             22
     2. Financial                                                                            22
     3. Technical                                                                            23
     4. Institutional                                                                        24
     5. Environmental                                                                        27
     6. Social                                                                               29
     7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                    3 1




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                         31
   2. Critical risks                                                                         32
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                         35

G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                                36
   2. Other                                                                                  36

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                               36

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                                 36




Annexes

1:   Project DesignSummary                                                                   37
2:   DetailedProject Description                                                             44
3:   EstimatedProject Costs                                                                  52
4:   Incremental Cost Analysis                                                               53
5:   Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary            61
6:   (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                            62
     (B) FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                                    67
7:   Project Processing Schedule                                                             72
8:   Documents inthe Project File                                                            73
9:    Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                        74
10: Country at a Glance                                                                      83
11: Social Issues                                                                            97
12: Environment Assessment                                                                  108
13: Institutional Arrangements                                                               117
14: Proposed IDB ParallelFinancing                                                           121
15: Proposed IBRDParallel Financing                                                          129



MAP(S)
I,LocationofIndigenousPeoplesinCentralAmerica                                  Map # IBRD33641
2. Protected Areas, Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, and IndigenousPeoples    Map # IBRD33640
3. Project PriorityAreas                                                       Map # IBRD33642

                                                   CENTRAL AMERICA
                             IntegratedEcosystemManagementinIndigenousCommunities

                                          Project Appraisal Document
                                          Latin America and CaribbeanRegion
                                                         LCSEO

Date: October 25,2004                                      Team Leader: Juan Martinez
Sector Managermirector: John Redwood                       Sector@): Generalagriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Country Managermirector: Jane Armitage                     (100%)
                                                           Theme@): Indigenouspeoples(P), Biodiversity (P)
Project ID: PO75219
FocalArea: B - Biodiversity


[ ]Loan        [ ] Credit    [XI Grant        [ ] Guarantee      [ ] Other:

For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 9.0 (GEF grant, $4 million implementedby IBRDand $5 million by IDB).
Note: Annexes 14 and 15 show details of $12.3 million incomplementaryfinancing (consideredcofinancing by GEF)
from existing IBRDprojects and $25.1millionfrom IDBprojects. CCAD and local communitieswill provide $2.5
million incofinancing. Becauseof system limitations the complementaryfinancing is not reflected inthe table below.



Global Environment Facility



BorrowerlRecipient: CENTRAL AMERICA INDIGENOUS AND PEASANT COORDINATION
ASSOCIATION FOR COMMUNITY AGROFORESTRY (ACICAFOC)
Responsible agency: CENTRAL AMERICA INDIGENOUS AND PEASANT COORDINATION
ASSOCIATION FOR COMMUNITY AGROFORESTRY (ACICAFOC)
Address: Apartado Postal2089-1002, San Jose CostaRica
ContactPerson: Albert0 Chinchilla, RegionalFacilitator
Tel: (506) 240 6274              Fax: (506)241-1916                 Email: oficinaregional@acicafoc.org

Other Agency(ies):
CentralAmerica IndigenousCouncil (CICA)
CentralAmerican Commissionfor Environment andDevelopment (CCAD)
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FYlUS$m):




Project implementation period: 5 years
Expectedeffectiveness date: 12/30/2004 Expected closing date: 01/01/2010




                                                      - 1 -


A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)

The development/global objective ofthe proposed project is to achieve more effective biodiversity
conservation in Central America (Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and
Panama) by strengthening the capacity of indigenous communities to protect and managetheir natural and
cultural resources, and by recuperating and promotingtheir cultural values and sustainable traditional land
use practices, thereby helpingto (a) prevent further land degradation that threatens environmental
services, livelihoods, and economic well-being, and (b) conserve the region's high, though increasingly
threatened biodiversity resources.

The project will build on the positive cultural values andtraditional practices that indigenous
communities have developed over centuries to manage natural resources, and will support and expand the
initiatives of indigenous communities that inhabit areas of highbiodiversity in six priority subregions
withinthe Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC), andwhose livelihoods dependonthe conservation
and sustainable use of those natural resources.These priority areas are basedon a combination of factors
grouped into three main categories: biodiversity value, degree of threat to conservation, and the
sociocultural characteristics o f the indigenous communities.

The project will (a) create a network of indigenous communities engagedinbiodiversity conservation and
sustainable and culturally appropriate landuses, (b) buildorganizationaland institutionalcapacity across
countries and groups, (c) promote exchangesbetween indigenous communities on traditional knowledge,
experiences, and lessons learned, (d) develop an enabling environment to reorient projects that deal with
sustainable rural development and conservation areas so that they include activities and approachesthat
promote participatory landuse planning inindigenous lands and regions, (e) consolidate culturally based
sustainable natural resource management practices and sustainable cultural land use across the region, (f)
support projects for sustainable production, promotion, and marketing of traditional products,
environmental services, and eco/ethnotourism, and (g) conduct participatory monitoring and evaluation of
progress inthe Conservationand sustainableuse of biological diversity.

The cultural land use concept is drivenbythe observation that eachcultural group marks its own
landscapewith discrete patterns. These landuses relate to traditional knowledge, cosmovision, and
customary law. Introducing cultural landuse aspects inthe analysis is important because it incorporates
the spatial dimensionoftraditional knowledgeand its uses of diversity, improves sustainability
assessment, and promotes adequate community participationin land planning.

Community conservation describes the decisionmaking process o f indigenous communities for
biodiversity conservation purposes, including land use planning, mapping, inventories of existing
biodiversity, and definition of conservation areas, including preparation of by-laws or collective statutes
for landmanagement (under customary law).

2. Key performanceindicators: (see Annex 1)

Key performance indicators (objectives):


0    135,000 hectares under community conservation, and 45,000 hectaresunder sustainable cultural land
    use.
0   Stabilization o f selectedbiodiversity indicators inthe project intervention zones (forest cover,
    ecosystem fragmentation, and population levels of selectedkey species). Communities will carry out




                                                    - 3 -

   baseline studies and identifybiodiversity priority areas duringthe first stage of the project as part of
   the landuseplanningprocess.
e  50 indigenous villages or communities of highorganization and management capacity (as definedin
   Annex 11) with active conservation and sustainablecultural landuse.
e  100 indigenous villages or communities o f mediummanagement and organizational capacity start
   engaging in active conservation and sustainable cultural landuse.
e  At least 70 indigenous communities participating in3 regional networks of eco/ethnotourism.
e  At least 3 regional networks for marketingtraditional indigenous products.
e At least 5 networks for marketing of environmental services derived from traditional ecosystem
   management with the participationof at least 400 indigenous communities.

Performance Indicators (Outputs):

1, Community-driven initiatives in six project interventionzones supporting long-term conservation
   goals.

2. Successful elaboration of cultural land use plans with complementary investments incommunity
   conservation areas, sustainable use inbuffer zones, and organizational development for medium-to
   long-term sustainability.

3. A socioeconomic and biophysics information system (based on CLAN, a cultural land use analysis
   tool developed by a Swiss university) that maintains and disseminates key information on community
   conservation resourcesto communities, regional organizations, CCAD, national governments, and
   partner NGOs

4. Recognition of customary laws (statutes and other legal by laws) as a legal community framework for
   permanent community conservation areas and recognition of the legal status of the community model
   within the national conservation strategy.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-relatedCountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goalsupported by the project:(see Annex 1)

Document number:         Date of latest CAS discussion:

Belize:        20708     September 5,2000
Costa Rica:    28570     May 18,2004
ElSalvador: 22932        December 4,2001
Guatemala:     18036     July 14, 1998, also ProgressReport R2002-0 12 (June 25,2002
Honduras:      25873     June 24,2003
Nicaragua:     25043     December 18,2002
Panama:        18421     November 19, 1998

The project is consistent with the World Bank Country Assistance Strategies(CASs) agreed with the
governments of each ofthe seven countries inCentral America. The CASs for these countries address
strategies to reduce poverty among vulnerable populations, including indigenous or ethnic minority
communities, recognize the value of a regional approach to environmental sustainability, and give
importance to incorporating indigenous development and natural resource management into poverty
reduction strategies. The project supports these development goals and regional vision by promoting
sustainable use of natural resources and generation of sustainedbenefitflows from strengthened regional
cooperation and emerging networks among indigenous communities involved in traditional land use and
management. Relevant goals inthe individual CASs include:




                                                  - 4 -

Belize: Implementingpolicies for environmentally sustainabledevelopment is one ofthe four main
elements of the CAS, including land and forestry management and expansion of tourism. Within this
element, the CAS cites the country's National Environmental Action Plan, which seeks to address
inappropriate land use and deforestation, environmental fees and guidelines, and providing technical
assistanceand extension services to Mayan communities to improve the productivity of their land and to
safeguardthe environment.

CostaRica: Social inclusion and poverty alleviation, particularly for indigenous people and Afro-Costa
Ricans, and continuing leadership on environmental issues, are two of the four mainareas of emphasis
identified inthe May 2004 CAS. The strategy specifically notes the needto coordinate across sectorsto
ensure that development programs are adaptedto indigenous needs. It also calls for efforts to achieve
financial sustainability inenvironmental managementand biodiversity conservation, and notes a strong
commitment to finding solutions to poverty that allow smallholders to "incorporate conservation practices
that are fully integrated into the rural landscape." It specifically mentions the Regional IndigenousIEM
Project.

ElSalvador: Emphasizesthe needto support poverty reduction, rural community development,
environmental services, and land administration. A new CAS i s currently under preparation and
scheduled for Board presentation inOctober 2004.

Guatemala:States that the reductionof poverty, above all the rural poverty that hurtsindigenous people
and women disproportionately, meritsthe most concentrated efforts inour lending and sector work. One
of the three key elements of the government's programthat the CAS supports i s improving access to
sustainable productive opportunities-including      gradually building up a better natural resource
management program.

Honduras:Fullyaligned with the six pillars o fthe Honduras PRSP. Pillar VI focuses on environmental
sustainability, including issues such as biodiversity conservation, deforestation, environmental services,
inappropriate land use, and improved natural resourcesmanagement. Addressing these challenges
involves decentralization of environmentalmanagement, clearly defined strategies for land use, and
promoting community participationand empowerment. The Regional IndigenousIntegratedEcosystem
Management project is specifically mentioned inthe Bank plans. Under Pillar V, on social protection, the
PSRP also seeks to strengthenthe right of ethnic groups to self-development based on their own identity.

Nicaragua:Highlightsenvironmentaldegradation and ecologicalvulnerability as one ofthree cross-
cuttingthemes, and includes better protection for vulnerable populations (including indigenous peoples)
as one of its four main pillars. Withinthe environmentaldegradation theme, the CAS points to promotion
o f the ecological restoration and sustainable management of productive areas as one o f its development
objectives. Inthe area of indigenous peoples issues the CAS emphasizes land rights and land
administration. The PSRP on which the CAS is basedi s especially concerned that growth be broad-based
to reduce inequality, and seeks to promote social equity for vulnerable groups.

Panama:Aims at assisting the government inachieving a significant reductioninpoverty and inequality
and improvingthe situation o f the rural population and indigenous communities.

The project also contributes to the objectives ofthe IDBCountry Strategies (CSs) inthat it is firmly
oriented towards poverty reduction and increasing the productive capacity of the poor. The project offers
opportunities to strengthen representation and meaningful participation of indigenous communities and,
as such, is consistent with the IDBPlan of Action for promoting social inclusion of ethnic minorities. In
addition, by reinforcing each country's capacity for managing significant portions o f the MBC, it
contributes to regional integration inenvironmentalmanagement, a core commitment o f the IDB.



                                                    - 5 -

la. Global OperationalStrategyProgramobjective addressed by the project:

All sevenofthe Central American countries have signedthe June 1992 Convention on Biological
Diversity and have received financing to prepareNational Biodiversity Strategies, and three ofthe
countries have ratified ILO Convention 169 on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples. The proposed project is
consistent with the GEF's Operational Strategy supporting long-term protection of biological resources.
The project supports the GEF Biodiversity Focal Area and Operational Programs 3 (Forest Ecosystems)
and 4 (Mountain Ecosystems) by promoting conservation and sustainable use o f biodiversity in
indigenous communities inthe MBC. Italso supports GEF Strategic Priorities for (a) mainstreamingof
biodiversity inproductive landscapes,(b) implementationof innovative and indigenous ecosystem
management practices, and (c) targeted capacity building.

The proposed project will support comprehensiveecosystemmanagementand resourceusage patterns in
regional and nationaldevelopment, carried out by indigenous communities themselves, to achieve multiple
and cross-cutting globalbenefits inthe area of conservation and sustainableuse of biodiversity. The project
will complement many existing GEFprojects relatedto the Mesoamerican BiologicalCorridor by
strengtheningconservation innaturalhabitatsoutsidethe core zones ofnationalprotectedareas. The
project's use of a regional approachis reflected in its insertion into the MBC and its strategy of fostering
sustainableindigenous integrated ecosystemmanagement(IEM)bytransferring lessons across countries
and indigenous groups. The emphasison sustainableuse i s reflected inthe close coupling inthis proposed
project of GEF resourceswithIBRDADB resourcesfor land administration and productive/sustainable use
of natural resources. The project is consistentwith the GEF objective of working with local, andparticularly
indigenous communities. The lessons learnedfrom this project can be replicated inother LatinAmerican
countries where there are few options for expanding nationalprotected areas systems.

2. Main sector issuesand Government strategy:

IndigenousPeoples and NaturalResourcesManagement

Central America has a broad naturalrichness and high biodiversity, with a distinctly heterogeneous mix
of terrains and climate, and highvulnerability to natural disasters. From Guatemala to Panamathere are at
least 10 mainecological zones of importance for biodiversity conservation within the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor, including the Moist Forests of Tehuantepec, Central American Atlantic Moist
Forests, Central American Pine and Oak Forests, Central American Pacific Dry Forests, Isthmian Pacific
Moist Forests, Miskito Pine Forests, Central American Montane Forests, Talamancan Montane Forests,
and Eastern Panamanian Montane Forests(Conservationof the TerrestrialEcoregions of Latin America
and the Caribbean, World BanWWWF, 1995).

Central America is also rich inculture and tradition. The region is pluricultural and multilingual, with 14
distinct indigenous ethnic groups speaking 39 languages, totaling about 6.7 millionpeople (24 percent of
the total population of the region). Guatemala has the highest concentration of indigenous peoples (66
percent), mainly o f Mayandescent, followed by Belize (20 percent), and Honduras (15 percent) (ILO).
Outside of Guatemala, indigenous peoples are concentrated inareas that are less populated, including the
areas that still have intact natural forests and ecosystems; about 85 percent of the region's national
protected areas overlap with indigenous populations.

While the extent of lands where indigenous peoples live inCentral America is difficult to define, one
recent analysis estimated itto be as high as 170,000 square kilometers, or almost 33 percent of the area of
the sevencountries (National GeographidCenterfor the Support ofNative Lands2003). Morethan 50
percent of this land contains forests or natural ecosystems, and a similar amount corresponds with the
MBC. Likewise, a disproportionate share o f forests and natural ecosystems, and an even greater share o f



                                                     - 6 -

national protected areas, overlap with indigenous populations. The strong overlap between indigenous
peoples and natural resources is not coincidental. The ecosystems o f many areas o f highbiodiversity have
been shaped by indigenous management practices related to subsistence agriculture, home gardens, forest
extraction, huntingor gathering practices, and the use o f forests as a refuge from mainstream society and
as sacred sites. Although social research has not developed an agreed understanding o f the complex
population-nature relationships, it is known that under certain circumstances higher population density
combined with appropriate land and resource practices can preserve biological diversity rather than
destroying it.This is the case, for example, inparts o f Sri Lanka and the Indo-Burma region. Some
interdisciplinary approaches suggest that traditional community governance mechanisms may help
develop sustainable systems. Even inparts o f Central America with supposedly "assimilated" Mayan
populations, a study o f municipal forest management comparing communities in historically Mayan and
"Mayan       areas o f western Honduras document significantly better managed forests inMayan areas
(Tucker, 1999).

Historically, indigenous peoples have had a strong relationshipwith the natural resource base intheir
culture, livelihood strategies, and value systems. The table below shows a number o f contemporary
natural resources management projects involving indigenous communities inCentral America.

                              SustainableNatural Resource Management
                            by Indigenous Communities inCentralAmerica

  Project                                          Description                          GlobalBenefits
  Costa Rica Indigenous               Organic production inagroforestry cacao    P Biodiversity protection
     Sustainable Agroforestry         systems using selected varieties and       P Carbon sequestration
     Cacao Production                 growingunder aregulatedforest cover.

  ForestProtectionwith                Indigenous communities sign                P Biodiversity protection
     Paymentsfor                      environmental easementsto protect their    P Carbon sequestration
     Environmental Services in        forest against fires, hunting, poaching,   P Protection of water resources
     Costa Rica                       etc.

  IndigenousMaya                      Landuse planning to protect riparian       P Biodiversity protection
     Community Management             habitatsofthe Sarstoon-Temash
     of the Sarstoon-Temash in        protected area by Maya Q'eqchi'.
     Belize

  Community Forest                    Community land concessions regulated       P Biodiversity protection
     Concessionsin PetCn,             by managementplan with the                 P Carbon sequestration
     Guatemala                        identification oftimber production,
                                      preservation,and agriculture areas.

  IndigenousCommunity                 Natural forest management, forest          P Biodiversity protection
     Management of the Bio-           preservation,and ecotourism activities in  9 Carbonsequestration
     Itza Reserve in PetCn,           remaining primary forests ofthe Maya       P Global cultural and language
     Guatemala                        Itzh, including conservationof language,      heritage
                                      culture, andthousands of years of
                                      traditional forest management,agriculture
                                      and huntingmethods.


Historically, the economic and development model for rural areaswas based on individual, private land
tenure as a means to foster efficient resourceuse. The communal systems o f indigenous peoples and the
cultural values underpinning landuse were actively undermined through (a) private landacquisition onthe
agricultural frontier; (b) rural development and trade policies; (c) the legal implications of landregistration
 systems; and (d) educational policies. Most ofthe countries inthe regioninitiated ambitious landreform and



                                                       - 7 -

landredistribution programs, butwith the implicit goal o f creating privateholdings on nongovernmental
lands and with a bias against preserving communal or municipalforest management systems, which were
seen as more riskythan state or individualtenure. However, over the past two decades there has been a
continually evolving shift inthe policy mindset on the relationship between individual landholdings and
economic progress, and on the role o f government inmanaging natural resources.

More recently, land regularization and registration initiatives have been shaped by environmental policy
dialogue and are more respectful o f common property regimes and co-management schemes that maintain
the environmentalvalue o fupper watersheds and priority coastal and inland ecozones through local
action. However, while there i s clear recognition and demarcation for certain indigenous areas in
collective forms such as comarcas, communal lands, and reserves, none o f the countries inthe region
have a fully adequate legal framework, and most have little or no real framework for establishing the
tenure rights o f indigenous peoples over their remainingtraditional territories based on customary law.
There i s growing recognition that viable ecosystem management systems can be found inexisting
indigenous lands based on traditional landtenure, inheritance, and normative frameworks for specific
categories o f land use, without the environmental community having to "create" them.

Inparallel, indigenous communities havethemselves become more aware o ftheir constitutionalrights
and internationalpolitical space, including ILO Convention 169 and Article 8(j) o f the Convention on
Biological Diversity. They have begunto take a public stance on the value o f community management o f
resources and the need to secure tenure and control over those resources. From an indigenous peoples'
perspective, the persistence o f healthy and diverse ecosystems within their territories or areas o f influence
i s due precisely to the fundamental maintenance role and relationship o f indigenous peoples to those
ecosystems. Although this not always the case, especially as indigenous communities are increasingly
affected by outside influences and pressures, in areas where they have maintained access and control over
these ecosystems, indigenous peoples have usually sought to protect the environment by declaring
community protected areas for biodiversity conservation rather than by being enforcers o f environmental
policies.

Constraintsto Indigenous EcosystemManagement

Despite the positive developments mentioned, there are a number o f constraints to the promotion o f
human-managed ecosystems in indigenous landscapes, including:

Poverty-InducedDegradation of Natural Resources.Poverty and the need for immediate income streams
leads to shorter rotation cycles and continued clearing o f agricultural plots by indigenous people and
results in less diversification o f crops, plants, and forest products. It also frequently leads communities to
sell their timber resources to outsiders for negligible sums as a way to generate cash. Outside settlers
move into areas o f traditional rotating agriculture and permanently clear lands for pasture and agro-
pasture, further displacing indigenous systems. Cleared lands are being farmed unsustainably for longer
periods and there are no resources to restore degraded soils.

Lack of Attention to Indigenous Cultural Ties to Traditional Lands.Many rural development programs
are based on a strategic framework focused on identifying areas o f global competitiveness and increasing
 overall efficiency inthe economy. While there is growing emphasis on asset creation inrural areas,
particularly on rural infrastructure, human capital formation, and access to land and financial credit,
 greater resources should still be allocated to expand the scope o f existing programs aimed at increasing
the viability o f farming systems and economic frameworks inareas where indigenous populations are
 concentrated. There i s also little or no strategic response to the expressed desire o f indigenous peoples in
 many rural areas to maintain their linksto traditional areas and to use cultural land practices inassuring
 sustainability while improving quality o f life. Agricultural programs are more commonly linked to food



                                                      - 8 -

security and human capital formation rather than to economic activities that improve livelihoods while
maintaining indigenous ties to traditional lands.

Lack of Resourcesfor Exchangeof Experiences.While there are numerous positive initiatives at the
national level for specific formal protected areas and priority regions, and there is support for creatinga
network among indigenous communities to exchange experiences across countries and to share culturally
driven standards for sustainable and culturally appropriate land use, resources for settingup such a
network have not yet beenavailable. Some indigenous land use models are dramatically different from
prevailing national models, which are developed mostly for nonindigenous areas and often emphasize
modern, technology-oriented approacheswith little or no consideration of traditional practices.
Indigenous land use models may include areas o f partially modified forest for use as ''home gardens" with
a mix of extractive activities on a small scale, corn fields sited and managed inaway that i s intimately
bound to social norms and critical to cultural survival, production systems such as shade coffee or organic
cacao that use technology appropriate to small communitiesrather than large agricultural enterprises, and
conservation areas basedon criteria such as spiritual beliefs and preservation of habitats, watersheds, and
traditional sustainable huntinggrounds or sites where plants knownto have medicinal uses are grown. In
addition, relevant experiences evolving in similar ecosystems inindigenous communities inMexico could
be incorporated into the managementpractices of communities inCentral America.

Government Strategies

The broaddevelopment goals of the seven participatingCentral American countries include poverty
alleviation, natural resource management, and reduction o f social and economic inequalities, particularly
inrural areas. These Central American countries are all parties to the maininternationalenvironmental
conventions, including the Convention on Biological Diversity and the UnitedNations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC). More than a dozen regional agreements on biodiversity and
conservation have been signed betweenthe Central American countries, includingthe Central American
Convention on Climate Change, the Mexico-CentralAmerica Declaration on Sustainable Development,
and the Convention for the Conservation of Biodiversity and the Protectionof Priority Wetlands. Three
countries inCentral America (Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Honduras) have ratified ILO Convention 169
on Indigenous and Tribal Peoples.

MesoamericanBiological Corridor. The governments of Central America value the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor (MBC) as a tool for environmentalstability and recognize the importance of
incorporating indigenous development and natural resource management into poverty reduction
strategies. In 1995, the heads of state of Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa
Rica, and Panamaresolved to collaborate inthe protection and sustainable use ofthe MBC,
demonstrating their recognition that internationalcooperation inmanaging these valuable resources and
the wide range of environmentalproducts and servicesthey provide is essential for the economic
competitiveness and social stability of the region.

The CentralAmerican Commission for Environment and Development (CCAD), composed o fthe
region's environment ministers, was given responsibility for implementingthe MBC. Bilateral and
multilateral donors and technical cooperation agencies began to support regional and national projects to
monitor and manage the environmentalresourcesof the M B C and to promote education and participatory
processesthat give communities withinthe corridor abetter understanding of the importance and value
those resources. At the December 2002 donor meetings inParis CCAD presented a comprehensive M B C
Business Plan, developed through a participatory process, which is now accepted as the guiding
framework for all MBC-related projects and initiatives.




                                                    - 9 -

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

The proposedIntegrated Ecosystem Management inIndigenous Communities Project will primarily
address the sector issues described inthe preceding section:


0 Poverty-induced degradation of natural resources
0 Lack of attention to indigenous cultural ties to traditional lands
0 Lack of resourcesfor exchange of experiences

This is the first GEF-supportedprojectthat is directly responding to the mandate ofthe Convention on
Biological Diversity Article 8 (j), upholdingthe sovereignty of indigenous peoples and their right to
pursuetheir own resourcemanagementinitiatives. Inbroadterms, the project will help consolidate a
"cultural corridor" as a complement to the "biological corridor" by buildingon the lessons learned from
the implementationofnational-levelGEF MBC projects inCentralAmerica, particularly the involvement
of local populations and institutions and consideration o f the broader context of sociocultural sustainable
development inthe region. The potential benefits of the project are basedon the addition of collective
areas located in indigenous territories to the area currently covered by the national systems of protected
areas, thus enlarging the biological diversity conservation area inCentralAmerica. The project will avoid
geographic overlap with the core zones of existing GEF protected areas projects and will target fundingo f
activities inbuffer zones.

Specific strategic choices are not narrowly aimed at single sector issues, but rather have strong and
inseparable relevance to two or more. However they also tend to emphasize one issue more than others:

(a)StrengthenIndigenousIntegrated EcosystemManagement throughout theRegion. The first
strategic choice was to recognize the value of integrated ecosystemmanagement (IEM) and its application
within indigenous communities. Among other goals, this addressesthe lack of attentionto indigenous
cultural ties to traditional lands. IEM incorporates economic and social factors into ecosystem
management goals and is flexible and adaptive so that these strategiescan be adjusted based on new
information. A growing number of indigenous communities have incorporated traditional knowledge,
values, and normative systems into the development of modem landuse plans basedon IEM.These plans
aim to enhance and sustainthe existing natural resource base of their titled lands or parts o f protected
areas established intheir historicalterritories, andto conserve permanent ecological, cultural, and
biodiversity values. These plans draw from the same knowledge that was the basis of.traditiona1land use
mosaics around differenttypes of biodiversity, soil, water, and implicitly forests, which provide habitat
and environmental services such as carbon sequestration.

The proposed project will help strengthen indigenous IEMsystems both locally and regionally, including
culturally specific landmapping and regularization and delimitation of conservation areas within
indigenous territories. It will also incorporate indigenous youth, women, and indigenous elders inthe
development of management plans and sustainable use systems. The project will specifically target youth
and young adults through training, study tours, and participationinresource management and sustainable
use activities. The project will also help build a sharedknowledge base of indigenous expertise about the
use, conservation and management of biodiversity, includinghunting and gathering activities and
traditional agricultural practices with highpercentagesof native crops and usefulnonedible plants.

(b) Identifv Income Generation OpportunitiesBased on Sustainable Use and Biodiversity
Conservation.This strategy addresses the issue of poverty-induceddegradation of natural resources by
providing communitieswith financial incentives for conservation. This could include establishment of
businesses that are compatible with resource conservation and development of markets for providing
environmental services such as watershed protection, biodiversity conservation, and carbon sequestration.


                                                   - 10-

There are previous experiences in Central America regarding sustainable community biodiversity uses. A
few ofthe options that seem promisingbasedon background studies o f cases inMexico andCentral
America include wildlife breeding, orchids, ethnotourism, agroforestry, bioprospecting, carbon
sequestration, and product transformation.

Byconsolidatingculturally basednaturalresourcemanagementpractices and standards acrossthe region,
the project would help create an institutional framework to support payment for environmental services
and foster mechanisms o f sustainable financing for landscape-wide conservation. It will also establish a
regional financing window for community conservation to channel funds on a demand-driven basis to
indigenous communities trying to implement IEMplans and practices inareas of highbiodiversity. The
fundamental goal is to help protect food security based on traditional subsistenceeconomies while also
expanding sustainable economic alternatives.

(e) Networking and Capacity Building. The proposed project will addressthe lack of resources for
exchange of experiences by supporting emerging regional and national networking and capacity building
among indigenous communities engaged inIEM. Such community-to-community learning and
knowledge exchange will help buildnetworks across the region and create links between communities
with comparable environmental characteristics. A commonvision would be expected to emerge among
indigenous communities on how best to managetheir traditional resources, and successful and proven
regional models would be adopted inlocal and national initiatives, including projects assistedby the
World Bank and IDB.The networking will also disseminate learning among indigenous communities and
national ecosystem management programs, includingthose of officially established protected areas. This
dialogue will seek to incorporate diverse community stakeholders, including women, youth, and
traditional elders. The proposed project will increasethe organizational and administrative capacity of
regional organizations and interestedcommunities to protect and manage biodiversity intheir territory in
a sustainable manner bothwithin community conservation areas and adjacent lands. The proposed project
will also allow for the exchange of experiencesbetweencommunities inCentral America and those in
Mexico, some of which are key actors inthe Mexico Indigenous and Community Conservation GEF
project (COINBIO) and the SecondMexico Community ForestryProject.

The underlyingassumption inthis project is that culturally driven ecosystemsmodels are more
sustainable over the long-term due to the lasting commitment of the indigenous communities who manage
them. Since the framework for certifying standardsof IEMneeds to be culturally compatible, the
community network system would generate an analysis of the adaptations neededto integrate
management models with local values and lifestyles, through the assessment of the changes and
sustainability of the different cultural uses of the landcategories. Inparallel, the network would develop
information and market standards on the sustainable and measurable environmental products and services
that community systems generate that are of local andor global benefit, helping to finance these systems
over the longterm.

C. Project Description Summary

 1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed descriptionandAnnex 3 for a detailedcost
 breakdown):

 The project will be implemented inareas of highbiodiversity within six priority subregions selected on
 the basis ofbiodiversity richness, conservation threat, and characteristics ofthe indigenous communities.
 These priority areas were identified through analyses, studies, and consultationfinancedthrough the GEF
 project preparation (Block B) grant and the Japan Special Fundthrough the IDB.Over the life of the
 project approximately 558 communities are expectedto come forward to participate inthe project
 activities. These communities were identified through a participatory social assessment that included


                                                    - 11 -

regionwide consultations measuring community interest and capacity for conservation (see Annex 11).
Indigenous consultants heldcommunity meetings and workshops to discuss sustainable development
options, collect data, and recommend courses of action. Additional meetingswere heldwith traditional
leadersfrom each community, as well as with other key individuals and institutional leaders. The
preparation analysis identified an indigenous peoples network that includes 607 organizations and
community groups operating inthe high biodiversity areas o f the six project priority areas.

 These 558 communities were divided into four categories based on their capacity to carry out project-
 funded activities and on their organizational commitmentto conservation. Plannedproject activities
 have beentailored to these different levels of organization, from the least capacity (Category 1) to the
 highest capacity (Category 4). Transparent criteria for selecting community proposals for financing have
 been developed duringproject preparation in collaborationwith the identified executing agency and
 other agencies involved inthe project, and have been incorporated into the Project OperationalManual.
 These criteria will bethe basis for decisionmaking by the Project Coordination Unit(PCU) and the
 Liaison Organizations (LOs) that will assist implementation at the subregional level (see Annex 12:
 EnvironmentalAssessment).

 The project will be implementedover a periodof five years, and will finance the following components
 (see detailed description inAnnex 2):

 Component l-Cultural and institutionalstrengtheningand capacity building
    a. Generation and strengthening of the organizational, technical, and administrative capacities of the
       indigenous communities regarding the cultural values and the management of their natural
       resources.
    b. Systematization of standardsand criteria for traditional ecosystemmanagement of indigenous
       communities, including a certification processfor indigenous communities that engage in
       effective ecosystemmanagement.
    c. Strengthening o f the negotiationand empowerment capacities of the indigenous community
       organizations for traditional ecosystem management.

 Component2-Promotion of sustainableculturallanduse and traditionalecosystemmanagement
    a. Development o f sustainable cultural land use plans inthe project intervention areas.
    b. Strengthening oftechnical capacities for traditional management o fthe ecosystemsincommunity
       areas.
    c. Interchange of experiences of traditional ecosystem management.

 Component 3-Development          of culturally appropriateproducts, markets,and servicesfor
    environmentalsustainabilityinindigenouscommunities
    a. Quantifying and marketinga consolidated regional supply of traditional products.
    b. Exploringopportunities to createmarkets for consolidated environmental services derived from
       community projects.
    c. Defining and marketing consolidated, community-based eco/ethnotourism routes and projects.
    d. Identifying,evaluating, and marketing community projects oftraditional ecosystem management.

 Component &Participatory projectmonitoringand evaluation
    a. Capacity buildingfor participatory monitoring and evaluationof project global impacts, project
       implementation, and human development.
    b. Monitoringand evaluationof project global benefits.
    C. Monitoring and evaluationof project activities.
    d. Evaluation of project interventionmodel basedon cultural values and traditional management
       practices of indigenous communities.



                                                  -12-

c
Project Component Costs
                                                                                       Source of Financing
                                                                                                                  Other

                                   Indicative                           % of                            CCADl     World        Other
                                                          World        World                    YOof     local     Bank         IDB
                                                        Bank-GEF       Bank-      IDB-GEF       IDB-    commu-   projects    projects
Component                                                (US$M)         GEF        (US$M)       GEF      nities  (US$M)       (US$M)
1. Cultural and institutional         16.57      33.9       0.00         0.0          2.78       55.6    1.09       4.40        8.30
   strengthening and capacity
   building

2. Promotion of cultural use          17.80      36.4       0.00         0.0          2.22       44.4    0.73       5.05        9.80
   and integrated ecosystems
   management

3. Development o f culturally         11.70      23.9                                            0.00    0.45       2.05        6.12
   appropriate products,
   markets, and services for
   environmental sustainability
   inindigenous communities

4. Participatory project               2.82       5.8                                            0.00     0.23      0.80         0.87
                                              1
   monitoring and evaluation

            Total Project Costs1      48.89      100.0       4.00       100.0         5.00       100.0
     Total Financing RequiredI 48.89                                 1            1
                                                 100.0       4.00       100.0         5.00
                                              I



communities will provide$2.5 million innew financing. IBRDwill provide additionalcomplementaryfinancing of $12.3 millionthrough related
projects already under implementation (Annex 14) andIDB will provide$25.1 million incomplementaryfinancing (Annex 15). This
complementaryfinancing, consideredcofinancingby GEF, brings the total for the project to $48.9 million.


2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:

 The projectwill help communities to establish local conservation bylaws basedontheir own customary
 community laws and codify them inthe relevant national registries, while at the same time supporting
 activities at the national level to integrate these community conservation norms and procedures into a
 overall conservation strategy. Local committees will be created, or existingones strengthened, to serve
 as sustainable institutional mechanisms for promoting conservation agreements.Their respective
 national governments will be encouragedto recognize the legitimacy of these committees and to
 replicate the model as a way of complementingcurrent strategies for protected areas.

 An important element ofthe projectwill be achieving synergies between its own efforts to develop
 integrated ecosystem land use systems and the existingland administrationprograms that are providing
 complementary financing for the IEMproject. It would also support valuation and markets for
 ecosystem services, such as user fees, watershed management contracts or service payments, forest
 conservation funds, or carbon offset trading.

 Regional community networks would be established to link communities with similar environmental
 characteristics and IEMpotential to help share best practices inthe use of traditional indigenous
 knowledge, practices, and land use systems. The long-term outcome will be that successful and proven
 regional models are effectively adopted in local and national initiatives, including government projects
 with World Bank and IDB financing, and that a commonvision emerges among indigenous
 communities on how best to managetheir traditional resources.




                                                              - 13 -

3. Benefits and target population:

The global benefits include:

   a. Identificationand designation of conservationareas that will protect important ecosystemsto
       enhancethe probability of achieving long-term Conservationof biodiversity andendangeredspecies.
   b. Sustainable managementof critical habitats inthe long-term.
   c. Development o f incentives to maintainprotected areas and forest habitats inthe long-term.
   d. Established capacity to ensure adequate and sustainablemanagementof communityprotected areas.
   e. New knowledge concerning the feasibility of community conservation approachesandthe factors
       associatedwith success.

The primary beneficiaries andtarget populationwill be indigenous peoples and communities located in
the six project priorityareas inCentral America. Thetarget populationincludes roughly 607 indigenous
community groups or organizations and 558 distinct communities. Direct benefits for this population
will include:

   a. Conservation of biodiversity and natural resourcesthat are key to their economic and cultural
       survival and well-being.
   b. Preservation ofcultural values andtraditional knowledge and practices.
   c. Enhanced sustainability of land use systems.
   d. Income generation opportunities basedon conservation of naturalresources.
   e. Greater capacity for self-management and participation indevelopment planning and policy.

The conservation and poverty alleviation agendaof local and national government agencieswill benefit
from the strengthened organizational capacity of the regional and local organizations and communities
involved inthe IEMproject. By working with local communities and organizations these government
agencies will also develop better working relationships with indigenous communities for other goals. In
addition the project will provide inputsand experience for developing updated, replicable government
policies and programs to promote biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resource use.

The Central American countries will benefitfrom the conservation efforts o f indigenous communities,
both interms of outcomes inindividual areas andthrough alliances that permitlinkingof some clustered
conservation areas for managementpurposes. The project will also benefit regionalintegrated conservation
efforts, and could indirectly enhance regional integration and cooperation inother fields. Countries will
also benefit from the clarification of legal standards establishedfor these activities at the local level.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:

Institutional Arrangements (see Annex 13)

GEF Implementing;Agencies. There hasbeenstrong coordination and collaboration between the World
Bank and IDB duringpreparation. Guidelines for continued collaboration and specific arrangements for
joint supervision missions, audits, approval of key hires, and other matters will be set out inthe Project
Operational Manual before project effectiveness. The IDBwill be responsible for Components 1and 2,
while the World Bank will be responsible Components 3 and4 ofthe project. Use o f project funds for
each component will be carried out inaccordancewith the norms and procedures of the agency
responsible for that component.

ExecutingAgency. ACICAFOC will be the project executing agency. Project implementation will be
carried out by ACICAFOC through a Project Coordination Unit(PCU). The PCUwill be responsible for



                                                  - 14-

implementingthe project inthe field, andwillwork inclose collaboration withthe nationaland local
indigenous communities through the LiaisonOrganizations (LOs) inthe project areas establishedby
ACICAFOC inconsultation withthe Central America Indigenous Council (CICA). Inproject areas not
representedby an LO, ACICAFOC may executesubprojectsunder Component 3 directly on behalfof
communities or sign agreements with communities to execute subprojectsthemselves. ACICAFOC's
financial managementcapacity has beenevaluatedand will be strengthenedduringproject preparationand
implementation to meet World Bank requirements and standards.The staff ofthe PCUwill include a
project coordinator, procurement officer, accountant, administrative assistant, andtwo technical officers.

Project Council (Conse-ioDirectivo delProyecto). The Project Council i s composed of two
representativesfrom ACICAFOC, two from CICA, and one from CCAD (the representatives
from ACICAFOC and CICA together are also knownas the Wayib,an indigenous advisory or
coordination council.). The Project Council will serve as a board of directors, oversee overall project
implementation, and make decisions over strategic choices. It will have ordinary meetings twice a year
to review and approve working plans and budgets, review results and impacts, and give advice on these
issues to the executing agency. The council may also have extraordinary meetingsto discuss matters of
importance for the project. The council i s an important forum to ensure real influence and feedback by
the local communities.


                        Project Implementation Structure and Flow of Funds


                                          Global Environment Facility (GEF)


                           I
                                 World Bank (IBRD)           1    I         Inter-American            I
                                                                    DevelopmentBank(IDB)



                                                                                             Project Council:

                                                    Executing Agency
                                                        (ACICAFOC)
                          .-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-. 1.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-._._._._._
                                                                                                         I
                         I                  ACICAFOC Project Coordination Unit
                                                                                                         I
                         I

                         !                                                                               I

                         !                                                                               I

                                                                                                         I

                         I

                         I
                                                                                                         I
                         I                 I




                                      Pacific                                                      Atlantic


                                                   Project Priority Areas
                   (See Annex 13 for countries and liaison organizations corresponding to the six project priority
                 areas. LOs will work with communities via a technical liaison officer and administrative assistant.)




                                                           - 15 -

 Liaison Organizations (Organizaciones de Enlace): Six Liaison Organizations (LOs), each one
 associated with one or two of the priority project areas, were identified through an institutional analysis
 that took place duringproject preparation. The LOs will be responsible for facilitating and promoting the
 project at the community level in their respective project areas. EachLO will follow the operational
 manual's guidelines for criteria and procedures for promotingthe project, selecting community
 proposals, and ensuringefficient implementation. The LOs will execute subprojects on behalf of
 communities or sign agreementswith qualified communities to execute the subprojects themselves.

 Disbursementand Flow ofFunds.ACICAFOC, as the executing agency, will be responsible for the
 fiduciary activities o fthe project. Project funds will flow from the World Bank to a Special Account in
 U S dollars (that will only have funds from the World Bank) maintainedby ACICAFOC and replenished
 on the basis of Withdrawal Applications. A project bank account in local currency will be opened to
 manage local payments by ACICAFOC to enablethe implementationof the different components under
 the purview o f the World Bank. Transfers will be made inU S dollars to the different liaison
 organizations upontheir request directly from the SA into an operating account, basedon approved
 annual work plans submitted by the LOs, with a time limit of no more than 30 days. The LOs may
 execute subprojects themselves or sign agreementswith communities to implement subprojects
 themselves. Inareas not covered by an LO, ACICAFOC may execute subprojects itself or sign
 agreementsdirectly with communities to execute subprojects.

 Auditing. ACICAFOC, as the executing agency, will maintainrecords, accounts, files, and project
 documentation, and will produce the standardfinancial statements (including those from the special
 account) according to InternationalAccounting Standards. As requiredby the Bank, project operations
 will be audited annually by an independentqualified auditor in accordancewith generally accepted
 auditing standards and procedures (based on Bank guidelinesand TORSfor auditing).

 Initial and MidtermReview.As will be specified inthe Operational Manual for the project, an initial
 joint review with IDBwill be carried out toward the end ofthe secondyear to evaluate needed
 adjustments inproject implementation arrangementsand design. CCAD representatives and indigenous
 organizations would participate inthis review. There will be a participatory evaluation mechanisms for
 consultationwith communities at the local level and to designthe evaluation framework. Indicators will
 be revised at this time, ifnecessary.A midtermreview would be carried out at the end ofthe third year
 for a full assessment of the model and any adjustment neededin project design.

D. Project Rationale

1. Project alternativesconsidered and reasonsfor rejection:

Countw-specific IEMProiects. Duringproject preparation, consideration was given to implementing
country-specific IEMprojects rather than taking a regional approach. This alternative was rejected
becausethe governments ofthe seven countries had expressed interest ina regional project and the
concept of IEMreflects a holistic approach to ecosystem management that crossesborders and
administrative boundaries. Central America is ideally suitedto a regional project with the well-known and
successful implementationof the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor concept, which is already unifying
policies, programs, and projects inthe region.

Focus onlv on Conservation Strategies. A focus solely on conservation of priority areas was considered, but
was rejectedbecause inadditionto conservation strategies the project must create conditions for sustainable
use of natural resources-this   is the only way to provide long-term benefits for the communities and to
foster social sustainability. The project is designedso that the indigenous communities themselves can share
knowledge with others about how to sustainably managetheir natural resources. Since poverty-and       the



                                                   - 16 -

unsustainableuse it often engenders-is one ofthe most significant treats to biodiversity conservation in
Central America, the project includes a componentfor exploring sustainablecommunity biodiversity uses
that can integrate environmental, sociocultural, economic, and institutional sustainability.

Attention to Established Protected Areas. Consideration was also given to a regional project
encompassing priority protected areas inthe MBC without a specific focus on indigenous community
lands. However, experience with indigenous communities inMexico has shown that communal areas tend
to achieve a higher level of sustainability than areas that have been created through federal decrees since
communities can use their customary legal framework to establish long-term, legally binding
conservation areas supported by community sanctions. This project will focus on ways to scale up
successful emergingcommunity managementoptions and then adapt new IEMmodels to the cultural
reality of indigenous communities. The adaptation of these models to the indigenous context createsthe
potentialto conserve a significant portion of indigenous ecosystems while increasing the incomes of the
families dependent on the natural resource base.

2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bankand/or other developmentagencies(completed,
ongoingand planned).



                                                        P
                                                                                  Implementation Development
 Bank-financed                                                                     Progress (IP) 3bjective (DO)

 RegionalCoastalEcosystems            GEF Central America MesoamericanBarrier           S              S
                                        ReefSystem

  CostaRica Forest Conservation       GEF and IBRDEcomarkets                            S              S

  CostaRicaBiodiversity Conservation  GEF Biodiversity Resources Development            S              S
                                        Project

  El SalvadorLand Administration      LandAdministration                                               S

  GuatemalaLandAdministration         LandAdministration                                               S

  HondurasBiodiversity Conservation   GEF Biodiversity in Priority Areas Project                       S

  HondurasLand Administration         Rural Land ManagementProject                                      S

  HondurasCoastalTourism              SustainableCoastal Tourism Project                                S

  HondurasRural Development           RegionalDevelopment inthe Copin Valley                            S
                                         Project

  Regional Ecosystems Management      GEF Silvopastoral Integrated Ecosystem            S               S
                                         Management

  NicaraguaRural Poverty              Poverty Reductionand LocalDevelopment             S               S
                                         Project

  Nicaragua Land Administration       LandAdministration                                                S

  Nicaragua Biodiversity Conservation Atlantic Biological Corridor (GEF)                                S

  PanamaBiodiversity Conservation     MesoamericanBiologicalCorridor (GEF)                              S

  PanamaLand Administration           LandAdministration                                                S

  PanamaRural Poverty                 Rural Poverty andNatural Resource                                 S
                                         Management

  PanamaNatural Resource Management Natural Resource ManagementI                        S               S

  Community Conservation              GuatemalaItzaMaya Indigenous Grassroots           HS             HS
                                         Project (GEF MSP)

  Community Conservation              El SalvadorShade Coffee andBiodiversity            S              S
                                         (GEF MSP)



                                                      - 17-

 Community Conservation

 Belize Biological Corridor          NorthernBelize Biological Corridor (GEF-
                                        MSP)

 Belize Indigenous Development       Community Management Sarstoon Temash
                                        Project (GEF-MSP)

 NicaraguaSustainableDevelopment     Nicaragua Coffee and Allspice Project (GEF-
                                        MSP)

 PanamaEnvironment                   PanamaEffective Protectionof San Lorenzo
                                        ProtectedArea (GEF-MSP)
 Other development agencies
 Mesoamerican Biological Corridor

 SustainableDevelopment and
   Conservation

 Community-based naturalresource
   management




Coordinationwith other implementingagencies

The CCAD is working with the GEF as a main focal point for global environmental issues for GEF
support of biodiversity conservation initiatives in Central America. The CCAD has been developing a
comprehensive approach underthe business plan that commits to measurable progress inconservation
and sustainable use while incorporatingbiodiversity objectives into the country's national strategies and
plans o f the seven Central America countries.

3. Lessonslearnedand reflected inthe projectdesign:

This proposed regional project has been informedby many lessons learnedfrom activities associated with
the GEF-supported Mesoamerican Biological Corridor program (World Bank and UNDP), investment
projects inthe rural sector financed by the World Bank and IDB,the Latin America and Caribbean
Indigenous Capacity BuildingProgram (carried out with World Bank Institutional Development Fund
grants), and the IndigenousPeoples Profiles studies carried out by the World Bank and RUTA.

The first lesson is the needfor full community involvement inall stages of project design, implementation
and monitoring and evaluation. At least three GEF-MSP projects are under implementation and are
providing that full community involvement i s an effective strategy for improving naturalresources
management and conservation by indigenous communities. This proposed project i s continuing this
approach inboththe preparation and implementation phases.

Participationof LocalPopulations. One of the key lessons learned is the importance of involving local
populations and institutions(such as NGOs, local government, and community and sectoral organizations)
inthe design, implementation, anddistribution ofbenefits ofthe project to ensure the long-term
conservation of biodiversity. Itis also important to view the "biological corridor" as a "cultural corridor"
withinthe broader context of sociocultural sustainabledevelopment inthe region. Experiencehas shown



                                                    - 1 8 -

that conservation ofnaturalresourcesi s only possible through integration ofthe local users ofthese
resources and support for their sustainableresourcemanagement.Pure conservation programs that do not
include participationbythe localpopulationwill likely have limitedsuccess and could even have adverse
environmental impacts ifthe localpopulation respondsnegatively to the initiative. For this reasonboththe
indigenous peoples andthe farmers living inthe MBC are essentialfor the success of boththis operation
and other projects currently under implementation or preparation.To sustainably managenaturalresources
inthe MBC, the subprojectsandactivities that are part of the MBC framework must integratenotjust
environmental issues, but also the sociocultural, economic, and institutional aspects of sustainability. The
initiative proposed inthis project will be managedby the indigenous communities themselvesand will
allow themto pursuetheir own vision of biodiversity conservation and natural resources management.

Importance of Indigenous Collective Areas to Sustainabilitv. Communal conservation areas tend to
achieve a higher level of sustainability than government-decreed protected areas because communities
can use their customary legal frameworks to establish long-term, legally bindingconservation areas
supported by community sanctions. This community conservation approach is beingfostered inthe
integrated management strategy of the World Bank-financed Community Forestry Project inMexico,
which has shown the effectiveness and sustainability of biodiversity conservation planned through
participatory rural appraisals, participatory landuse planning, intercommunity information sharing, forest
management plans, and market studies for nontimber forest products. Given appropriate support,
communities throughout the region will be able to establish their own conservation areas and achieve
greater biodiversity protectionthan would likely occur under governmental management. The proposed
project will support culturally driven ecosystemmodels designed and implementedby indigenous
communities on their collective lands.

Value o f Information ExchangesAmong Indigenous Peoples.The World Bank IDF indigenous peoples
training programs were highly successful inbuildingthe institutional capacity of indigenous community
networks and transferringresources directly to them to organize their own training events. InLatin
America such programs have been carried out in Guatemala, Honduras, Panama, Nicaragua, Ecuador,
Chile, Bolivia, Colombia, and Mexico. Horizontal learningamong indigenous organizations has proved
very effective and has beenshown to work faster and create longer-term networks for intercommunity
initiatives in CentralAmerica and the Mexican part ofthe MBC. Indigenous-ledinitiatives also address
the lack oftrustthat communities feel toward government and outside NGOs that are perceivedas being
opposed to indigenous culture andways of life. This project will foster the horizontal exchange o f
experiences and knowledgeby supportinga regional network of indigenous communities involved in
sustainable and culturally appropriate land use.

Creation o f Subproject Financing Window. Drawingon project experience of the World Bank and the
action plans developed by communities inthe IDF-financed capacity buildinginitiatives, the proposed
regional project will establish a financing window to channel resourcesto community subprojects. This
project account will be administered by a financial agent advised by the project council. By assuming
responsibility for decisionmaking and monitoring o f the financing window, indigenous communities will
build their capacity to transparently absorb financial resourcesand to determine and monitor subproject
priorities and selection criteria. The processwill demonstrate that communities inthe region are capable
of developing and managing their own initiatives. The mentioned window will finance small grants, but
bythe endofthe project it is expected that communitieswill beginto leverage their own funds and attract
new fundingor payments for environmentalservices and green enterprises. At that time the Wayib-the
indigenous coordination group that i s part of the Project Council-may     determinethat communities
should seek funding individually or insmall groups, or may choose to establish a regional fundto channel
resourcesto the communities.




                                                   - 19-

4. Indications of borrower and recipientcommitmentand ownership:
The project concept was developed basedon discussionswith indigenous regional organizations (CICA,
ACICAFOC, and Fondo Indigena), CCAD, and government officials ofthe seven Central American
countries (including their environment ministers, who are part of CCAD). It incorporates a preliminary
agreementbetween the World Bank and IDBfor cofinancingand implementation arrangements.

The initiative originated at the local levelwith arequestfor Block-B grant financing from GEFto prepare
the regionalproject. BothCICA and ACICAFOC strongly support the initiative because it fits well with
their current institutional strategies, which include adecentralizedpolicy framework and increasedemphasis
on community-based conservation. This strong commitment was also reflected inthe positiveresponseto
the participatorypreparationactivities inall seven participating countries duringthe PDF Block-Bphase.

Relevant indigenous organizations, coordinated by ACICAFOC and CICA, were actively involved in
preparation of the project concept. The RegionalUnitfor Technical Assistance (RUTA) prepared the first
draft of the concept note after extensive discussions between RUTA,the Central American Commission
on Environment and Development(CCAD), ACICAFOC, CICA, the World Bank, and IDB.

Consultative discussions, partially funded bythe Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program and the IDB,were
heldthroughout the process, including a September 2000 workshop inGuatemalato develop Central
American standardsfor community biodiversity and ecosystemsmanagementand a February 2001
workshop inCostaRica withthe organizations mentioned above. These consultations included(a) a
preparation meetingwith representativesofthe mainregional indigenous organizations; (b) discussionswith
the national governments, GEF FocalPoints, and CCAD (all the national GEF Focal Points and ministries
of finance have officially endorsedthe project); (c) discussions between the IDBand World Bank regarding
joint implementation; and (d) dialogue between staff from CCAD and the environment ministriesinvolved
inimplementingnationalprojects (such as PROBAP inHonduras andEcomarkets inCostaRica) and other
projects that potentially couldbe included inthe baseline. An extensive consultation, coordinated by CICA
and financed bythe Japanese Special Fundinthe IDB,was conducted with indigenous organizations,
leaders, and communities inall the project countries during project preparation. The consultation gave both
inputsto the designand feedback onthe draft project proposaland analysis.

As indicatedabove, there is strong support withinthe participating organizations for decentralization of
conservation initiativesto the local and community level. Throughout the preparation process, the overall
project team of CICA and ACICAFOC has provided assistanceincoordinating project preparation
activities, workshops, and preparation logistics betweenthe local and the national level.

The strongest support comes from the communities themselves. The PDF-B grant recipients inthe region
have made significant progress in identifyingareas for conservation and potential alliances among
communities incontiguous blocks of biodiversity.

5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:

The baseline scenario (without proposedproject) consists of projects that affect indigenous communities,
including projects that focus on national protected areas, community conservation and sustainable use,
rural development and ruralpoverty, and land administration, as well as potential indigenous peoples
development projects (see Annex 4, IncrementalCost Analysis). Although the baseline provides a
window for improvingthe livelihoods of indigenous communities and protecting their cultural and natural
resource managementtraditions, there i s tremendous potentialto generateadditional global benefits for
biodiversity by:




                                                    - 20 -

     0 Buildingthe capacity of indigenouscommunities to activelyparticipate inand benefitfrom rural
       development and landadministration projects so that traditional ecosystemmodels, relatedto
       culturally based uses ofthe land that will benefitglobal biodiversity conservation, remain intact; and


     0 Supporting a regional network of indigenous communities involved in integrated ecosystem
       management so that (a) community leaders inareas that are benefiting from existing GEF and other
       projects have an opportunity to share their experienceswith other communities throughout Central
       America; and (b) common legal and technical standards for environmental goods and services can
       be developed and sufficient regional economies of scale created to attract more significant
       financiers to markets that support IEMbasedon traditional values and practices.

Becausethere currently are no projects on a regional scale that focus on these two issues, there is great
potentialfor value-added through World Bank and GEF support for such a regionwide project. Inaddition
to the global and local benefits of the regionwide approach itself, described in earlier sections of this
document, the Bank and GEF can bring unique incremental benefits to the project because of their
experience and comparative advantage in several important areas.

Communityforestry andprotected areas/biodiversity conservation. The World Bank has been involved
for the past six years incommunity forestry and protected areadbiodiversity conservation inseveral
Central American countries. This project is based on insightsderivedfrom those projects and from a long
policy dialogue with the Central American governments and indigenous communities, beginningwith an
analysis of the difficulties encountered incountries where national projects have been carried out. The
proposed project has also drawn on experiencesgained inMexico and elsewhere inLatin America with
community resource management andjoint partnerships between governments and local level institutions.
For example, the World Bank's Indigenous Peoples Initiative i s buildingparallel experiences inPeru and
inBolivia on community biodiversity conservation, which will generatevaluable lessons inthe future.

Indigenous peoples capacity building. The World Bank also has significant experience in indigenous
capacity-building financed through the IDFwindow, both inCentral America and elsewhere inLatin
America. The capacity of the executing agency is one of the key risks inthe project, and successful
implementation will require specialized expertise and practical experience to buildthe necessarycapacity.
The IDFfunds have beenhighlysuccessful intransferringresourcesdirectly to indigenous community
networks to organize participatory training events and processesthat acceleratedtechnical innovation and
institutional development among indigenous peoples, while building institutional capacity. World Bank
and IDB staff have strong relationships with key indigenous organizations, including two o f the major
regional indigenous organizations directly relevant to this field. The project is based on the experience
that linkages among indigenous organizations have been an effective learningtool and addressesthe fact
that community members lack trust ingovernment officials and outside NGOs that are perceivedas being
opposed to their culture and way of life.

Multiple complementaryfinancing projects. The complementary financing arrangements (cofinancing in
GEFterminology) for this project include financing from 18 other projects, and is specifically designed to
create synergies between national indigenous peoples, conservation, ecosystemmanagement, and land
administration initiatives to create a regional framework for sustainable, financially viable, and culturally
appropriate ecosystemmanagement. Integration with the extensive World Bank and D B portfolio inthe
region i s critical to the design structure and successful outcomes of the project. Making indigenous
communities and their networks the implementing agents of the regional integrated ecosystem
management initiative will strengthen ownership and enable action around an indigenous vision o f
development inwhich quality of life is definedinterms o f a specific ecological space and according to
specific cultural values towards resource management. The linkage to these projects will help sustain an
outward and inward exchange of information that will allow them adapt ongoing investment projects at



                                                    -21 -

the national level by tailoring community subproject investments and protected areas management models
to the lessons emerging inthe regional initiative.

Land tenure.Among the cofinancing projects, the land administration arena inparticular stands out as one
inwhich the World Bank is more deeply involvedthan other development agencies. Consideringthe
importance o f land tenure and administrationissues to land use and management planning, the shared
dialogue on knowledge, practices, and experiences will have particular relevance to national land
modernization schemes and will help participatingcommunities make decisions within national
frameworks. These land administration projects overlap with the project area o f the Regional Indigenous
IEMProject, and include components that are closely relatedto or support those inthe IEMproject, such
as institutional strengthening, land tenure security through demarcation, monitoring and evaluation, and
conflict resolution mechanisms. The IEMproject team has discussed these opportunities for synergies
with the leaders o fthe land projects, who have agreed to collaborate as complementaryfinancing. CCAD
will initiate discussions with the PCUs o fthe respective projects to draft a strategy for that collaboration
and formalize agreements for how to carry it out.

Mesoamerican Biological Corridor. The World Bank and GEF are major partners with CCAD and the
MesoamericanBiological Corridor. The strength o f these regional linkages and connectionto an
overarching conservation approach for CentralAmerica give the Bank and GEF unique experience and
perspective for implementingan initiative as complex and innovative as the proposed integrated
ecosystem management project. The regional studies and networking involved inthese partnerships will
help tremendously inthe development o f standards and criteria for activities that have a potential or
nascent market for payment o f environmental services, an emerging concept in which the World Bank
and GEF are involved inpioneeringwork.

Financing options and GEF'Sglobal experience.It is unlikely that another source o f financing could be
found for such an innovative regional project, inwhich global benefits are optimized only through a
regional approach, and inwhich local benefits derived from the regional network are strong but might not
garner financing from national governments accustomed to a more conventional development approach.
GEF involvement inthis project will enablethe participatingcommunities and countries to draw uponthe
GEF'sworldwide experience incomplementary protection and sustainableuse activities inbiosphere
reserve management, and in recently approved projects that support indigenous peoples' involvement in
biodiversity conservation. GEF involvement has catalyzed federal support for locally based conservation
initiatives, which otherwise might not have received adequate operational and financial support. The
proposed project is expected to provide models that can be disseminated and adapted for use in other
countries.

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)

1. Economic(see Annex 4)
Incremental Cost

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5)

Fiscal Impact:

CCAD has evaluated the overall GEF package including other international donor contributions for the
MesoamericanBiological Corridor, analyzedthe impacts interms staff andcounterpart expenditures ineach
Central America country, and found that proposed expenditure levels for this project are consistent with
long-term programs planned for the environmental sector. The project counterpart contribution includes




                                                   - 22 -

existing commitments under other IBRDand IDBprojects inareas such as land administration, which
constitutes a commitmentto the indigenous organizations duringthe timeframe for project implementation.

The project will avoid overlap with the core zones o f national protected areas and relies on IEM systems
and land use plans implemented and monitored by communitiesthemselves rather than depending on
government or public resources. Counterpart contributions are largely in-kindand the focus o f the project
is to create sustainable, community-managed, productive activities that support conservation inthe long
term and which would be based on markets for goods and services rather than on government support.

There i s potential for the local-level liaison organizations (identified duringpreparationto perform as
pilot institutional mechanisms supporting community-level and multi-community conservation initiatives)
to prove themselves as effective entities during implementation and to evolve a permanent role as civic
associations with strong community ownership after the project investment phase. This implies no fiscal
impact for government.

Depending on the type of economic activities and markets that are created, the project may have a modest
positive fiscal impact due to taxes on goods, services, and tourism. Certain approaches to payments for
environmental services could involve government-supported or managed markets, but where this i s the
case it would be based on cost-benefit analysis that finds such markets to have positive impacts on other
sectors, such as water supply, that imply a net positive fiscal impact overall.

3. Technical:

This is one o fthe first regular GEF projects to directly respondto the mandate o f CBD Article 8 ('j),
which upholds the sovereignty o f indigenous peoples and their right to pursue their own resource
management initiatives. As such, the project would seek to document successful conservation strategies
currently employed by the indigenous communities located inthe six priority areas and to promote
incentives for stabilizing and maintainingcommunity biodiversity corridors inthe main protected areas.
Many o f these strategies and methodologies are applicable not only withinthe areas where they are
currently being practicedbut inother areas with similar situations and conditions.

The technical design o fthe project is appropriate to the needs and capacity o f the indigenous communities
and organizations in Central America. It has been reviewed twice by the World Bank GEF technical
specialists for biodiversity and land degradation. Their comments, as well as those o f the GEF STAP
reviewer, have been addressed to the satisfaction o f the GEF Secretariat. Seeking appropriate technical
solutions and ecosystem management systems through a participatory process undertaken by indigenous
organizations and the communities themselves is the very hallmark o fthe project.

There i s a core body o f knowledge emerging that supports sustainable use activities while ensuringthe
conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity. Indigenouspeoples with hands-on experience from GEF-
financed projects and other projects focused on protected areas and sustainable use are best placedto
work with communities inthe region to tailor emerging IEMmodels to their own cultural reality. For
example, some local and national programs, such as the El Salvador Shade Coffee Project and the Costa
Rica Sustainable Cacao Project (both are GEF MSPs), are assisting specific communities to better
manage their ecosystems and develop markets for environmental services.

Adapting these models within the context o f indigenous community practices creates considerable
potential for conserving significant portions o f indigenous ecosystems while increasing the income o f
families dependent on the natural resource base. Inaddition, within the proposed project area there are
approximately 120 indigenous communities working on advanced resource management initiatives with
an emphasis on long-term finance mechanisms to support conservation management. Most o f these



                                                    - 23 -

communities have received green level certification from the RainForest Alliance. Also, regional
organizations within the Mesoamerica region (ACICAFOC and the Mexico'sNational Union of
Communal Forestry Organizations) have beenworking on the preparation of standards for "good" natural
resources management in community lands andterritories. The main idea of this process is to scale up
successful community management, expand green certificationto other communities, and generate
community interest inlaunching carbon sequestrationefforts intheir lands and territories.

4. Institutional:

The overall goal ofthe institutional arrangementsareto ensure representation by different indigenous
communities and organizations inthe decisionmaking process, and to minimize riskrelatedto
institutional capacity by buildingthe capacity of the implementingagency, including a strong partner
institution to collaborate with the executing agency, and providing substantial resources for participatory
monitoring and evaluation.

4.1 Executing agencies:

The ExecutingAgency will bethe Central American Indigenous and Peasant Coordination Association
for Community Agroforestry (ACICAFOC), a broad, regional, community-based organization founded in
1994. ACICAFOC will implement the project with guidance from the Central American Commission for
Environment and Development (CCAD) and the Central America Indigenous Council (CICA), which will
hold seats onthe Project Council.

ACICAFOC promotes local socio-productive integration and ecological development and strengthening
of the indigenous, Afro-descendant, and peasantcommunities based onthe experiences of the
communities themselves. This serves as a practical reply to the social, environmental, and cultural
vulnerability of the Central American region. The organization i s legally headquartered in San Jose, Costa
Rica. The members o f ACICAFOC include local base organizations, cooperatives, and federations that
work inareas like ecotourism, agro-forestry, community forestry, agroecology, sustainable use and
management of natural resources, and payment for environmental services (see www.acicafoc.org).

CCAD i s an instrument for regional cooperation and collaboration by the Central American environment
ministries, particularly in implementationof the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (the commission's
Council of Ministers also serve as the GEF Focal Points for their respective countries). The involvement
of CCAD will help the proposed project coordinate activities with other GEF-financed projects inthe
region.

CICA represents the indigenous communitiesof Central America and will primarily play a coordinating
and guidance role inthe proposed project rather than executing investments.While CICA focuses mainly
on cultural, legal, educational, and human rights issues, it also promotes a cultural emphasis on land and
natural resourcesmanagement, and many of its member organizations have considerable experience in
biodiversity conservation and land management.

Inaddition, duringproject preparation sixLiaison Organizations (LOs), some ofwhich are members of
CICA and ACICAFOC, were identifiedthrough an institutional analysis to work at the subregional level.
The LOs are responsible for facilitating and promoting the project inthe different project priority areas.
This will create stronger accountabilitybythe executing agency and provide more inputfrom member
organizations. EachLO will follow the operational manual's guidelines for criteria and procedures for
promoting the project, selecting community proposals, and ensuring efficient implementation.




                                                  - 24 -

4.2 Project management:

The project operational manual will provide (a) detailed terms of reference for implementing agencies and
project coordinators, (b) monitoring and evaluation studies and plans, (c) standard contracts for
community subprojects where applicable, (d) criteria for selection of participant communities and project
activities, (e) financial and performance reporting and record-keeping, (0environmental standards
applicable to conservation investments and pilot subprojects, and (g) a roster of eligible service providers
with credibility inthe indigenous communities. The draft manual was reviewed and revisedduring
appraisal in June 2004, and the final version will be approved and ready for implementation as a condition
of effectiveness.

Participatory monitoring and evaluation will be carried out through the local communities and base
organizations, which will collect data to be included inthe project database for the monitoring system and
compared to the data from the baseline study. These activities will include dissemination of project
results, impacts, and other conclusions. A community advisory group will be established in each local
project areato monitor efficiency, performance, and other factors according to specific indicators. The
PCUwill develop annual work plans withtargets, indicators, activities, schedule, and budget.

The World Bank and IDB,together with CCAD, CICA, and ACICAFOC, will conduct one mid-term
evaluation and a final evaluation ofthe project execution, partly basedonthe information from the
monitoring system.

4.3 Procurement issues:

The PCUwill include a procurement officer who will ensurethat the procurement o f goods, works, and
consulting services to be financed with project resources i s carried out following the procurement policies
and procedures of the responsible implementingagency (IDB for components 1and 3, World Bank for
components 3 and 4). Procurement arrangements and thresholds for procurement methods and prior
review are detailed inAnnex 6(A), however individual disbursements for this project are expected to be
relatively small and no internationalcompetitive bidding is expected.

At appraisal however, ACICAFOC did notyet have the capacity to implement procurementactions for
the project and overall procurement risk is high.A detailed action plan to createthe PCU and build its
capacity to carry out procurement and financial management was agreedby the Bank and the executing
agency, including steps to be completed before negotiations and attainment of standards acceptable to the
Bank as a condition o f effectiveness.

Another key issue i s the procurement capacity of the six liaison organizations that will manage and
disburse funds for local expenditures and for resourceschanneledto communities to carry out project
activities. The PCUwill provide training inprocurement procedures to these agencies, including a
detailed operations manual, standard bidding documents, and model contracts. N o money will be passed
to or through the LOs untiltheir capacity to manage funds and carry out the requiredprocurement
processes i s evaluated and approved by the PCU and found acceptableto the Bank

At the beginning of eachfiscal year the Bankwill approve the procurement planfor the upcoming year.
Inadditionto the priorreviewsupervision to becarriedout from Bank offices, the Bankplansto conduct
one procurement supervision mission inthe field every 12 months (including one special procurement
supervision mission for post review) that will examine 20 percent of contracts signed.




                                                  - 25 -

4.4 Financial management issues:

The implementingagency, ACICAFOC, has broad technical experience inproject implementation,
including projects financed by the Ford Foundation, Rockefeller Foundation, U.K.Department for
International Development (DFID), andNGOs inthe Netherlands, Denmark, Switzerland, and Germany.
The organizationwas recently namedofficial observer to the UnitedNations.

However, at the time of appraisal ACICAFOC's overall financial capacity was still limited and the
organizationdoes not have extensive experience inmanaging projects financed by IBRDand IDB.The
current accounting and financial managementstructure of the Association would not enable it to
satisfactorilymanage the financial activities of the proposed project. Consideringthat the project will
have to perform activities in seven different countries and manage in-kindcontributions from different
sources and convert them into cash for accounting purposes, the agency needs to strengthen its capacity to
deal with a number of currencies and to managethe complex flow of funds and documentation requiredto
support the timely reimbursements.

ACICAFOC has been willing to increaseits capacity and carry out the proposed action plan described in
Annex 6(B), especially the staffing ofthe PCU, to achieve acceptable capacity before effectiveness. With
implementationo f the actionplan, ACICAFOC would have inplace adequate financial management
arrangementsto meet the Bank's minimumfiduciary requirementsfor the specific activities proposed.
These measures, along with further financial capacity buildingduringproject implementation, will help
create a more financially and technically sustainable institution. This i s part of the institutional
strengthening objectives of the project.

The PCUwill beresponsible for (a) maintainingaccounting records, (b) processing disbursements, (c)
preparingproject financial statements inaccordance with World Bank guidelines, (d) managing bank
accounts, (e) managingfinancial information systems, (f) preparing and submitting a quarterly Financial
MonitoringReport (FMR)that will meet the requirements of both the IBRDand IDB, (g) preparingand
submittingwithdrawal applications, (h)coordinatingwith auditors duringthe annual financial audit
exercise, and (i)supervising the fiduciary activities of the LOs.

The LOs are responsible for facilitating and promotingthe project at the ecoregion level and will follow
the operational manual's guidelinesfor criteria andprocedures for promotingthe project, selecting
community proposals, and ensuringefficient implementation.

Project funds will flow from the World Bank and IDB either via two separate Special Accounts (one for
each agency) that will be replenishedonthe basis of Withdrawal Applications, or by direct payments in
U S dollars. Two project bank accounts will also be opened inCosta Rican colones to manage payments in
local currency from ACICAFOC. Projectpayments will be managed by ACICAFOC through the PCU.
Transfers by ACICAFOC will be made inU S dollars to the different liaison organizations upon their
request directly from the SA, except where a community i s not represented by an LO, inwhich case
ACICAFOC may execute subprojects or pass funds to communities directly. Transfers to LOs will be
made to cover eligible expenditures, basedon approved annual work plans submittedby the LOs, with a
time limit of nomore than 30 days. LOs will operate separate bank accounts with project funds and will
be responsible for providing monthly expenditure reports to the PCU, including a monthly bank
reconciliation.

Project financial audits (including those of ACICAFOC) will be conducted in accordance with
International Standards of Auditing(ISA) by independent private auditors and on terms of reference
acceptableto IBRDand IDB.The annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the




                                                  - 26 -

Banks within six months ofthe end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The cost of
the audit will be financed from the project resources.

Annex 6(B) contains detailed information onfinancial capacity building, staffing, accounting policies and
procedures, reporting and monitoring, IT systems, audit arrangements, supervision, disbursement, SOEs,
and special accounts.

5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)

5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMF preparation (including
consultationand disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.

The Environmental Management Framework (EMF)developed for the proposed project is summarized in
Annex 12andwill be includedinits entirety as part ofthe operational manual. This Framework serves as
an operational instrument to ensure appropriate environmentaland social management duringproject
implementation and execution of project activities. It takes into account the recommendations and
comments of the World Bank's Quality Assurance Team (QAT) for Latin America and the Caribbean and
the IDB's Committee on Environmental and Social Impact (CESI).

The key issues identified inthe EMFare the environmental assessment procedures for the small-scale
subprojects in Component 3 (development of culturally appropriate productive activities and services for
environmental sustainability) and the institutional capacity ofthe executing agency, PCU, and liaison
organizations for environmentalmanagement.

The Framework addresses these issues by (a) definingcriteria for categorizing proposed subprojects
basedon screening of the activities and ecoregions inwhich they will take place, (b) specifying the
studies or instruments requiredfor each subproject to ensure environmental sustainability and compliance
with IBRDand IDB safeguardpolicies, and(c) setting out procedures and processesfor approving
productive subprojects, identifyingwho is responsible for safeguard compliance, and proposing
institutional strengthening measuresneededto ensure adequate environmentalmanagement duringproject
implementation.

A strategic environmentalassessment developed duringproject preparation provides a general outline of
policies, plans, and programs relatedto the proposed project, while specific operational measuresto
ensure safeguard compliance and environmentally sound implementation are contained inthe EMF.
Project preparation also included analysis of information, maps, and data available from previous
assessments conducted for the preparation of national protected areas projects inCentral America.
Secondary statistical and biological information was collected and documented ina GIS information
system to complement data collected inthe site identification study. This information was analyzed in
conjunction with data generatedthrough the social assessment in order to produce a set of socioeconomic
information about potential project sites for project implementation.

Regional and local indigenous consultations were conducted with communities inthe six priority areas
and consultationworkshops were heldas part of the studies conducted with project preparationfunding.
The OperationalManual includes assessment, consultation, and clearance policies for any ethnotourism
subproject in areas of archeological interest, as well as "chance finding" procedures inthe event that any
works subproject unexpectedly encounters archeological artifacts or other physical cultural property. All
project environmental and social analysis is sharedwith ACICAFOC, CCAD, and CICA, and prior to
appraisal the EMF was disclosed through InfoShop and was placedon the website o f CCAD, which
representsthe environment ministriesof the seven countries inthe project area.




                                                  - 27 -

The project will not result in significant or foreseeablenegative environmentalor social impact dueto the
nature of its activities with focus on positive environmental and social impacts, described inthis
document. Onthe contrary, the operation will helpprevent further land degradation and enhance
conservation of globally significant biodiversity associatedwith (a) increased local capacity for
environmentalmanagement; (b) reduced deforestation due to introductionof sustainable forest
management methods; (c) improved soil and water conservation, through maintaining traditional
sustainable land use practices; and (d) improvedbiodiversity conservation through sustainable traditional
use and management of ecosystems.

5.2 What are the main features of the EMF and are they adequate?

The main features of the EMFare (a) methodology, criteria, and procedures for analysis and management
of environmental impacts of subprojects, and (b) proposals for institutional capacity buildingto enhance
environmentalmanagement.

Impact analysis and managementmeasures include a methodologyfor categorizing subprojects according
to level of environmentalrisk, specific documentation and studies requiredfor environmental subprojects
indifferentcategories, a flowchart showingthe EIA proceduresand responsibilities, and annexes with
sample terms of reference, a matrix listing priorities and environmental problems in different areas and
communities, a form for recordingpreliminary environmental assessment, guidelinesfor rapid
environmental assessment, and a checklistto help classify subprojects and flag important issue.

The institutionalanalysis specifies roles, responsibilities, and accountability for EIA, procedures and
processesfor EIA, criteria for selecting and approving subprojects, and proposals for institutional training
and capacity building.

The EMFwas endorsedbythe QAT and is considered a robust instrument,particularly inview o fthe
environmentally positive approach and goals of the project.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:

                      Date of receipt o f final draft: June 11,2004 (revised July 15 2004 to
                                                       reflect IDB safeguards)

5.4 How have stakeholders beenconsulted at the stage of (a>environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmentalimpacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?

Mechanisms for stakeholders participation were adapted from those developed by the GEF-MSP projects
under implementation, and also from some other experiences of Mexico and Central America, such as the
community forestry project. Methodologies includedregional and local indigenous consultations with
communities inthe six priority areas and consultationworkshops heldin each country as part of the
studies conducted with project preparation funding.Environmental criteria were crossed with
socioeconomic criteriato ensure bothmeasureswere taken into account.

Duringthe environmental screening phase indigenous communitiesand organizations were consulted
extensively, and at appraisal the EnvironmentalManagement Frameworkwas reviewed by CICA and
ACICAFOC, the two mainregional indigenous associations participatinginthe project, which inturn
represent dozens of member organizations.




                                                      - 28 -

  5.5 What mechanisms have been establishedto monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
  environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMF?

  The project will not result insignificant or foreseeable negative environmental or social impact due to the
  nature of its activities with focus on positive environmental and social impacts, described inthis
  document. Screening of local activities during the implementationwill follow indicative criteria for
  environmentalacceptabilitybased on the IBRDand IDB policies and safeguards, definedinthe
  Operational Regulations. Ifthis screening detects any possible adverse impacts, these will be analyzed
  through an environmental assessmentto ensure that such impacts are mitigated. The strategy of the
  project is to provide communities with the neededinformation to understand the environmental and
  biodiversity values found intheir resourcebase and to support training inthe use o f environmental
  standards applied by CCAD.

  6. Social:

  6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
  development outcomes.

  The project is an indigenous peoples community development project, with indigenous peoples
  constituting more than 90 percent of the project beneficiaries, and therefore the project itself is considered
  an Indigenous Peoples DevelopmentPlan(World Bank OD 4.20). (The rest of the beneficiaries are
  nonindigenous inhabitants living inor near predominantly indigenous communities.) This social
  assessment i s based on the findings of in-depthparticipatory studies carried out inBelize, El Salvador,
  Nicaragua, Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, and Panama.This includedreviewing literature on
  indigenous peoples inthe region and visiting key institutions, conducting extensive indigenous
  consultations through community meetings, workshops, and interviews, and analyzing the field data. The
  studieswere conducted to evaluate existing socioeconomic data, specifically the Country Indigenous
  Peoples Profiles, and to collect new qualitative and quantitative information through participatory
  consultation carried out by indigenous professionals in order to assessthe changing dynamics o f land use,
  demographic pressure, and the social, political, and cultural conditions that affect the sustainable use of

' natural resources

  6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?

  This is a participatory project inwhich local-level organizations (called OrganizacionesEnlace) were
  identified during preparation as a pilot institutional mechanismto support community-level and multi-
  community conservation initiatives, including technical assistance, training and community investment. It
   i s hoped that these committees will prove themselves to be effective entities during project
   implementation and evolve a permanent role as civil associations with strong community ownership after
  the project investmentphase. To ensure that the community-driven model is legitimated at the national
   level, a national committee is beingcreatedto ensurethat the relevant national institutions are involved in
  project implementation and that they recognize this approach as a valid conservation model.

  The proposed projectwas designedand developed basedon discussions with regional indigenous
   organizations (CICA, ACICAFOC), CCAD, and government officials of the seven Central American
   countries (including the environment ministers, who are part o f CCAD), and extensive community-level
   consultations. The World Bank and IDBagreedonjoint financing and implementation arrangements,
  which are detailed inthe Operational Manual. Preparation funds were allocated to ensure full
  participation of indigenous communities and other stakeholders duringthe designprocess. It is expected
  that social assessments and in-depthconsultations will continue duringproject implementation as a
   monitoring and evaluationtool.



                                                     - 29 -

As the regional technicalvoice of the indigenous communities, the collaborationof CICA and
ACICAFOC inall phases of preparation, implementation, and evaluation is crucial to the sustainability of
the activities. The outreach and technical capacity of microregional indigenous organizations varies
widely, requiringprograms to develop flexible operating mechanisms for working with local, national,
and regional indigenous organizations.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborationwith NGOs or other civil society
organizations?

The IDB, with financing from the Japan Special Fund, covered the cost of consultations with target
communities located inthe main ecosystems inthe region as part of project preparation. The consultations
include compiling sociocultural assessment information collectedby other projects, collecting
information through participatory appraisal methods, and developingcommunity selection criteria based
on social and environmentalfactors and the extent of complementary programs and projects. This is
buildingon information collected byACICAFOC and CCADthat was financed through the World Bank
bythe Netherlands Environment Program. The consultations have resulted inan indigenous peoples
strategy for the MBC, a list of eligible communities, cost-sharing criteria for communities with different
financial needs or levels of development, inputs for the final design of the GEF project, institutional
community analyses, and the criteria for including future communities inthe project.

Duringthe interinstitutional meetingsto develop the project, the representatives o f the national
indigenous councils (mesas indigenas) and the lead indigenous communities agreedto form a permanent
advisory council, or "Wayib" inMayan terminology, that would oversee and guide the proposed regional
project. The Wayib will include indigenous representation (to be determined by the national councils),
ACICAFOC, and CICA. Coordination work (facilitated by CCAD) was carried out with other projects
and activities duringpreparation of the project, particularly with those implementedand coordinatedby
CCAD.

6.4 What institutionalarrangementshave been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

The entire project is structured around the ongoing participationand monitoringbythe project
beneficiaries themselves, through the Liaison Organizations ineach project priority area, and through
ongoing evaluations and local-level decisionmaking for community subprojects by participating
communities. There are checks and balancesbetween the composition of the Liaison Organizations and
the regional level Project Council and executing agency.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms o f social development outcomes?

Social riskwas identified duringproject designand will be addressedthrough the participatory and
demand-driven structure ofthe project, along with the targeting of activities accordingto the capacity o f
each participant community. To date, identified social risks have beennot problematic inother projects
with the same nature.

Does this projectincludeany Community-DrivenDevelopmentcomponent?No




                                                  - 30 -

7. Safeguard Policies:

7.1 Are any o f the following safeguard policies triggered bythe project?


     Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                           OYes ONo
     Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                   @Yes ONo
     Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                    @Yes ONo
     Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                      OYes O N 0
     Cultural Property(OPN 11.03)                                                   @Yes ONo
     IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                     @Yes ONo
     InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                            OYes *No
     Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                              OYes O N 0
     Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                   OYes @ N o
     Projectsin DisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)"                          OYes @No

7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

The project design has beendeveloped incompliance with the applicable safeguardspolicies, so no
additional mechanisms will be necessary.

F. Sustainability and Risks

1. Sustainability:

The proposed project will achieve sustainability by focusing capacity building on indigenous
communities in Central America and recognizing and capitalizing on the crucial role of regional
networking to expand the initiatives of national and local indigenous organizations and indigenous
producers. The project is based on the experience that training and capacity buildinghave a more long-
term impact when communitiesthemselves are the catalysts to transfer knowledge and skills. Leader
communities can maintaina training role that can be sustainedafter project financing,

The project also will build long-term sustainability of cultural-based landuses and products in indigenous
communities by supportingtraditional institutions and practices (i.e. traditional authorities,
intercommunity associations, sustainable cultural landuse, customary law, and adaptive technologies).
This strategy reflectsthe lessons learned from projects supported bythe World Bank, IDB, and GEF in
Central America that have attempted to introduce new technical approaches inrural areas without
recognizing and incorporatingtraditional institutions and practices. To obtain institutional sustainability,
the Wayib, the regional organizations (ACICAFOC, CICA), andthe national indigenous federations will
have a key role inmobilizing local organizations and communities. The local institutional setup will be
studied case by case to assure collaborationwith municipalities and other local stakeholders.

The following specific activities and outcomes will ensure sustainability beyondthe project period: (a)
improvingthe local, national, and regional institutionalcapacity o f indigenous peoples to assess and
integrate natural resources, biodiversity, and carbon sequestrationvalues into development planning; (b)
disseminating strategic activities at the regional, national, and community levels and demonstrating
investments inspecific ecosystemsto show the value of traditional management; (c) enabling indigenous
communities to assessthe sustainabilityof their cultural land use categories and make the adjustments
necessaryto ensure future sustainability; (d) creating economies o f scale at the regional level among
communities for private sector investment inproducts and services; and (e) disseminatinglessonsto




                                                   - 3 1-

national programs and the general public withinthe Mesoamerican Biological Corridor so that traditional
indigenous land uses and managementmodels can be more widely understood.

Financial viability

Educationaland training activities will be complemented by a review of the legal and regulatory incentive
frameworks and a certification of indigenous communities that engage ineffective sustainable ecosystem
management to assurethat they get direct financial returns.

Financial sustainability of community conservation should be feasible becausemuch of the community
investment required is inthe form of community labor, which is consistent with long-standing, traditional
indigenous systems o f labor exchange for community maintenance. The support of projects for
sustainable use o f natural resourcesand environmental services that can be certified for marketing
purposes increasesthe economic returnand market scope of these activities for communities. Inaddition,
creation and management of a regional community conservation financing window during
implementationwill increasethe capacity of indigenous communities to manage financial resources and
prepare and monitor subprojects, and demonstratethat communities inthe region are capable of
developing and managingtheir own initiatives. Bythe endo fthe project it i s expected that communities
will beginto leverage their own funds and attract new fundingor payment for the environmental services
they are providing.

la. Replicability:

It is expectedthat some indigenous traditional knowledgeand sustainable cultural landuse practices will
be replicatedwithin and betweenthe countries participating inthe MBC. Specifically, experiences gained
and best practices relatingto conservation and sustainable use of natural resources inthese production
ecosystems, improved land and water managementand soil fertility techniques, enhancedproductivity,
and micro-watershedplanning and managementwill be disseminatedto local (community level), national,
and international indigenous organizations. The latter will be accomplished through the sharing of
experiences by those directly involved inproject development and implementation (project personnel).
Project support for the dissemination of lessons learned envisionedunder Component 1i s consistent with
the GEF Outreach Strategy and will help implementArticle 7 (Clearing HouseMechanism) and Article
86) (traditional indigenous knowledge, innovations, and practices relevant to conservation and
sustainable use of biological diversity) ofthe Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). Specific
resourceswould be allocated to communicate the project's objectives, activities, and results to a wider
regional audience. This would occur specifically through (a) community-focused consultations and
outreach to community, national, and regionalindigenous organizations and other stakeholders; (b)
participation by project staff and beneficiaries (including indigenous professionals) inoutreach both
withinthe countries and internationally; (c) preparation ofmaterialfor the general public; and (d)
preparation of material for media.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):

The only high risk identified bythe projectteam is:

a. Capacity of the executing agency may be insufficient to successfully implement such a complex
     project. This riskwhich will be mitigated through training, technical advisors operating within the
     organization, and close monitoring and follow-up duringimplementation.

Five other risks were considered substantial. These risks, and measuresto mitigate them, are:




                                                   - 32 -

a. Challenges to the legitimacy of the Wayib and its decisions. This risk has already been partly
    mitigatedby the extensive consultations and networkingthat was started during the preparation
    process (including participationbythe leadership ofthe regional and national indigenous
    organizations and communities inCentral America), and will be further mitigated as this broad
    participatory process continues during project implementation.

b. Absence inmany communities ofby-laws for community naturalprotected areas, including
    communities that have not reaffirmed existingby-laws. This will be addressedthrough institutional
    capacity building and technical assistancefocused on assessingcustomary by-laws regarding cultural
    land use and sustainable naturalresourcemanagement, findingways to strengthen and reaffirm
    existing by-laws, and helpingto create or formalize new ones.

C.  Lack of mechanisms for coordinationbetween national governments, local governments, indigenous
    organizations, and communities inthe elaboration of management plans and other activities. This will
    be addressedby fostering collaborationthrough CCAD and by usingproject funds to facilitate
    coordination between CCAD, national and local governments, and the indigenous organizations.

d. Differinglevels of political support may lead to unevenproject progress from country to country.
    This will be mitigatedthrough continuous relations and information exchangewith government
    institutions, partly through CCAD.

e.  Problems with landtenure and ownership. World Bank and IDBprograms incadastre, titling, and
    land management will be working closely with the proposed project to mitigate risk related to these
    problems.

The table below presents afull list ofproject risks, rated as high, substantial, modest, and negligible or low.

                                                 Risk Rating
 From Outputs to Objective

Lack o f adequate controlmeasures for                  M         Use participatorymethods for identifying appropriate
verifying compliance with naturalresource                        and operational measures for compliance with natural
norms inindigenous communities.                                  resource norms. CLAN use to assess landuse changes
                                                                 throughremote sensor analysis.

Lack of participationfrom communities and              M         Regular stakeholder review meetings andthe needto
government innaturalresource management.                         assume localownership ofproject inorder to begin
                                                                 implementation.

Lack o f financial resourcesfor regional               M         Adequate allocationof funds to allow for regional
participatoryplanningand development.                            participatoryplanninganddevelopment.

Economycontinuesto createincentives to                 M         Ensurethat adequate economic informationis available
 convert forest to other landuses.                               inthe contextoflong-termcommunityviability.

 Governmentprogramsinother sectors(e.g.                M         Steeringcommittee members at local andnational
 roads, energy, etc.) promote activities                         leveltransmit concerns on development plans and
 incompatiblew/ projectgoals.                                    policiesto respectivegovernments

 Government does notprovide adequate budget            M         CICA, ACICAFOC, and local governmentsconfm
 resourcesfor the project.                                       respectiveMinistry o fFinance agreementswith
                                                                 plannedcategoriesof expenditure.




                                                   - 33 -

 Inadequate level o f community organizationto        M     rargeting of communities will include clear criteria on
 sustain conservation activities and                        xganizational level and training will be targeted to
 intergovernmentalprocesses.                                xganizational capacity buildingand customary law
                                                            issessment.

 Problems with landtenure and ownership.              S     World Bank and IDBprograms incadastre, titling,
                                                            indlandmanagement the regionwill be working
                                                            :losely with the project regarding these issues.

 Challenges to the legitimacy o f the project         S     Project preparationhas included and will continue to
 council and its decisions.                                 include extensive consultation and participation o f the
                                                            leadership o fthe indigenous communities inCentral
                                                            America.

 Limitedcapacity and experience of                    H     Training, advisors working within the organization,
 ACICAFOC for implementing large complex                    dose monitoring and follow-up during
 projects.                                                  implementation.

 Differences inpolitical support results in           S     Maintain continuous relations and information
 unevenproject progress from country to                     exchange with government institutions (partly through

1country.                                                   CCAD).

 From Componentsto Outputs

 Lack o f grassroots promoters with experience        M     Utilize promoters from related projects to work with
 inteaching andelaborating conservation plans.              and train other promoters.

 Lack of systematization and o f a dissemination      M     Make project funds and resources available to
 strategy for community experiences.                        document the experiences o f indigenous communities
                                                            innaturalresource management.

 Many communities have not yet developed by-          S     Technical assistance will be providedto assess
 laws for natural protectedareas.                           customary by-laws regarding cultural land use and
                                                            sustainable natural resource management to find ways
                                                            o f strengthening and reaffirming existing by-laws and
                                                            helping to create or formalize new ones.

 Lack o f mechanisms for coordination between          S    Provide funds to facilitate coordination between
 national and local governments and indigenous              regional governments and indigenous communities;
 communities for elaborating management                     create multistate steering committee.
 plans.

 Technologies for biodiversity-friendly               M     Disseminate through the project variable models o f
 activities are not effective or do not provide a           communities whose practices are exemplary o f
 sufficient economic incentive to the                       sustainable natural resource use.
 community.

 Lack o f economic resources and willingness to       M     Provide ample resources and promote cooperative
  share information.                                        exchange of information.

  Overall Risk Rating                                 M




                                                   - 34 -

3. PossibleControversialAspects:

The project does not involve physicaldisplacement, and seeks to strengthenexistingcommunity patterns
o f behavior, social norms, and cultural values rather than change them. It involves no significant
infrastructure or pollution-generating activities, and is explicitly designedto foster responsible
stewardship, conservation, and sustainableuse of natural resources.It also expressly promotes
information exchange, rightsof indigenous peoples, and greater income equality by targeting poor
communities. The guidingProject Council is small, but includes organizations that inturn represent a
broad range o f indigenous communities and organizations.

However, the project does have some possible controversial aspects, including:

1. Distribution of benefits and coststo specific communities or indigenous groups. The project includes
     hundreds of communities and numerous different ethnic groups. Since all ofthem cannot be
     represented directly inthe Project Council or Coordination Unit,there will be clear and transparent
     criteria and procedures for project implementation and selection of community proposals for funding
     to avoid perceptions of favoritism. Also, six indigenous groups will serve as Liaison Organizations to
     facilitate and promote the project at the ecoregion level, thereby bringingbroader representation and
     oversight to the project. There will also be a conflict resolution mechanism inthe project operational
     manual.

2. Use of natural resources. Since the project directly addresses productive use of naturalresourcesthere
     could be controversy over what types of use are considered sustainable and consistent with
     biodiversity conservation. Since sustainable integrated ecosystem management i s the purpose of the
     project, and managementplans are beingdeveloped by the indigenous communities themselves, the
     riskofcontroversyis low. Furthermore, subprojects and land use plans will be monitored to make
     sure commercial logging or other damaging activities inprimary forests are not included.

3.   Landrights.The project is designedto be implementedinareas where land issues are resolved or are
     inthe process of beingresolved as part ofthe cofinancing projects. This complementary relationship
     between land projects and the proposedproject will help ensure that such that ecosystem and land
     management plans can be developed on the basis of stable and legally recognized land ownership.

4. Legitimacy, management capacity of executing agency. Although the capacity o fthe executing
     agency, ACICAFOC, is one ofthe key risks inthis project, implementation by a regional indigenous
     organization is also one of the key advantages of the project and is critical to its concept, design, and
     legitimacy. CCAD, a regional agencywith stronger capacity, will play an important support and
     advisory role inthe project, and another regional indigenous organization, CICA, will be a partner in
     the project and will be representedonthe Project Council. The project also includes a strongcapacity
     buildingelement for ACICAFOC. The extensive consultations already undertaken with indigenous
     communities and organizations during project preparation, and the wide range of groups that are
     representedby or are membersof the executing agency and the liaison organizations, provides a solid
     foundation for the legitimacy of ACICAFOC as executing agency.




                                                    - 35 -

G. Main Conditions

1. Effectiveness Condition
1. Establishthe PCUandselect its staff inconformitywith the criteriaagreedwith the two Banks.

2. Complete to standards acceptable to the two Banks (a) the project operational manual, (b) all plans
   and procedures requiredfor accounting, procurement, and auditing, and (c) capacitybuilding strategy
   for ACICAFOC andthe LiaisonOrganizations.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]

Disbursement Condition
1. Approve and sign agreements betweenACICAFOC and the LOs regardingthe functions ofthese
   organizationsduring implementationof the project.

H. Readiness for Implementation

    1. a) The engineeringdesign documents for the first year's activitiesare complete and readyfor the
          start of project implementation.
[XI 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2.Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestartof
      project implementation.
0 3.TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealisticandofsatisfactory
      quality.
[XI 4. The following items are lackingandare discussedunder loan conditions(SectionG):

1.  Formationof PCU
2.  Agreements betweenACICAFOC andthe LOs regardingtheir functionsandresponsibilitiesduring
     implementation
3,  FinalProjectOperationalManual
4.  Approvedplans and procedures for accounting, procurement, and auditing
5.   Detailedcapacitybuilding strategy for ACICAFOC and LOs

1. Compliance with Bank Policies

[XI 1. This project complieswith all applicableBank policies.
    2. The following exceptions to Bank policiesare recommended for approval. The project complies




                                                - 3 6 -

                                       Annex I: Project Design Summary

       CENTRAL AMERICA: Integrated Ecosystem Management in Indigenous Communities




                                                                       Sector/                  from Goal to
                                  Sector Indicators:                   :ountry reports:         3ank Mission)
Reduce poverty in indigenous      Reduced levels o f malnutrition o f   3aseline and socio-     idequate selection o f
communities inthe                 children less than 7 years old in     xonomic studies         r o ject intervention
MesoamericanBiological            indigenous communities                                        ireas
Corridor (MBC)

GEF Operational Program:          Outcome I ImpactIndicators:
GEF Operational Programs 3        (i)Reduction o fthe percentage o f    Baseline study.         YIajor competing
(Forest Ecosystems) and 4         extreme poverty inthe beneficiary                             ncentives do not
                                                                        Project monitoring
(Mountain Ecosystems). Objec-     communities o fthe project;                                   nduce indigenous
tives are (i)                                                           systemincorporating
            conservation and      (ii)                                                          :omunities to change
                                      Stabilization or increase of the  jata available through
sustainable use o f biological    percentage o f areaunder              3IS, diachronic image   iustainable cultural
resources inforest ecosystems,                                                                   and use despite the
(ii)conservationandsustainable    community conservation inthe          analysis, and           x-oject.
                                  project area;
use o fbiological resources in                                          iatabases inthe 7

mountain ecosystems, (iii)        (iii)
                                      Increase o f the percentage of    zountries.

equitable sharing o f benefits.   lands under sustainable cultural      Project monitoring
                                  landuse inthe project area.           reports with socio-
                                                                        economic and land
                                                                        use data from com-
                                                                        munities.

                                                                                                            ~    ~~~

                                                                                                :fromObjective
Global Objective:                 Outcome I Impact Indicators:          Project reports:        :o Goal)
Achieve more effective biodi-     Duringthe 5 year project              Project monitoring       PCommunity institu-
versity conservation in Central   execution:                            reports, community        tions enforce their
America (Guatemala, Belize,       135,000 hectaresunder community       registries, and evalua-   customary law
Honduras, El Salvador, Nicara-                                          tion workshops.
                                  conservation, and 45,000 hectares                               norms.
gua, Costa Rica, and Panama)      under sustainable cultural land use.
by strengthening the capacity of                                                                 D Stable regimes for
indigenous communities to         Stabilizationo f selectedbiodiversity                            use and management
protect and manage their natural indicators inthe project intervention                             o f indigenous lands
and cultural resources, and by    zones (forest cover;ecosystem                                    and territories.
recuperatingand promoting the     fragmentation andpopulation levels                             * Communities
positive cultural values and tra- of selectedkey species).                                         develop their cul-
ditional landuse practices they                                                                    tural land use
have developed over centuries.    100 indigenous villages or commu-
                                  nities o f medium management and                                 communal maps,
                                  organizational capacity start                                    assess cultural land
                                  engaging inactive conservation,                                  sustainability and
                                  and sustainable cultural landuse.                                implement norms
                                                                                                   for sustainability
                                  50 indigenous villages or commu-                                 adjustments.
                                  nities o fhigh organization and
                                  management capacity with active                                  Communities
                                  conservation, and sustainable                                    enforce customary
                                  cultural landuse.                                                law.

                                  At least 70 indigenous communities                               Governments



                                                        - 37 -

                               3articipatingin3 regional networks                              acknowledge com-
                               if ecolethnotourismand/or with                                  munity customary
                               xoiethnotourism businessplans                                   law norms for
                                                                                               managementand
                               4t least 3 regional networks for                                conservation of
                               narketing traditional indigenous                                natural resources; dc
                               x-oductsdeveloped.                                              not promote activi-
                               4t least 5 networks for marketing                               ties incompatible
                               if environmentalservices derived                                with project objec-
                               from traditional land use estab-                                tives, and provide
                                ished, with the participation of at                            adequate financial
                               least 400 indigenouscommunities.                                resources.

                                                                                              1Adequate level o f
                                                                                               community organi-
                                                                                               zation and intergov-
                                                                                               ernmentalparticipa-
                                                                                               tion inthe process,
                                                                                               including local
                                                                                               governments.

                                                                                             1 Mechanisms for
                                                                                               local conflict reso-
                                                                                                lution can effcientl:
                                                                                               handledisputes.

                                                                                               Project Council
                                                                                                (Wayib  $.CCAD) is
                                                                                                recognized as a
                                                                                                legitimate voice of
                                                                                                the project.

                                                                                             [fromOutputs to
Component:                     Output Indicators:                    'roject reports:       0bjective)

1. Cultural and institutional  Typologvfor organizationsfiom         ?rojectmonitoring       0  Experiencesand
   strengtheningand capacity   CategoryIVand111                      -eports, community         promoters with
   building                     0 1,229 indigenousparticipants       eegistries, and evalua-    teaching and devel-
                                  trained on institutional manage-   :ion workshops.            opment experience
                                  ment, marketing, legislation,                                 regarding conserva.
                                  customary law, land use, forest                               tion plans.
                                  management,biodiversity,
                                  information technology, and                                   Systematization o f
                                  empowermentand lobbying,                                      experiencesofthe
                                  collective identity andrights,                                communities in
                                  customary law, techniques for                                 addition to a dis-
                                  participatory investigation, and                               semination strategy
                                  project formulation, through 94                                Proposalsfor territc
                                  capacity building exercises.                                  rial managementar
                                                                                                 capacity to negotial
                                0 164 indigenousparticipants
                                  trained regarding institutional                                these proposals.
                                  functioning, cooperationadmini-
                                  stration andcommunity promo-
                                  tionthrough 82 study visits.



                                                      - 38 -

                                       a
ley                                    trategy

1 3 10 indigenousparticipants
  trained regarding community
  production, community mapping,
  cultural landuse and sustainable
  uses, preparationof management
  plans andeco/ethno-tourism,
  through 31exchanges of experi-
  ences.

B 32 institutional development
  plans and20 business plans
  developedthrough support from
  52 consultancies.

b Recoveryo ftraditional ecosys-
  tems managementthrough 30
  participatory systematization
   activities and studies inthe
   indigenouscommunities.

B  Increasedknowledge oftradi-
   tional landuse management
   through 286 community meet-
   ings at the project intervention
   zones level.
Organizational types (Iy II)

0   1,605 indigenousparticipants
   trained regarding institutional
   management, legislation, cus-
   tomary law, land use, collective
    identity andrights, empower-
   ment and lobbying, and informa-
   tion technology, through 135
    capacitybuilding exercises.

 0  282 indigenousparticipants
    trained regarding institutional
    functioning and community
    promotion, through 141study
    visits.

 0  400 indigenousparticipants
    trained regarding community
    production, community mapping
     cultural landuse, and sustainable
    uses, through 40 community
     exchanges.

 0   17 institutional diagnosis and 15
     strategic institutional planspre-
     paredthrough 32 consultancies.
 Planfor regionalization of
 experiences
 0   275 indigenousDarticiDants



                         - 39 -

                                    trained regarding design ofpro-
                                    ductive and cultural management
                                    o f ecosystems projects, through
                                    38 community exchanges.

                                   152 indigenous participants
                                    trained regarding design o fpro-
                                    ductive systems, through 26
                                    studytours.

                                   1Regional integration and capac-
                                    ity building regarding issues of
                                    sustainable cultural land use,
                                    through 5 regional consultation
                                    meetings.

2. Promotion of cultural use and                                       'reject monitoring           Community custom-
                                   1 39 plans for sustainable cultural                             1

   traditional ecosystems            landuse developed.                 'eports, community          ary laws for cultural
   management                                                           .egistries, and evalua-     landcategories,
                                     Strengthening of local capacities  .ionworkshops,              sustainability
                                     for sustainable cultural land use  xltural landuse             adjustments and
                                     through 39 sub-projects.           naps, community             sustainable forest
                                                                        iorms on sustainable        management.
                                   B Promotion of sustainable devel-    Zultivation frequency
                                     opment, and natural and cultural   mdother cultural land      BAdequate tools
                                     conservation through 62 sub-       use adjustments to          (community cultural
                                     projects.                          reach sustainability.       land use mapping)
                                                                                                    and enabled promot-
                                   B Mitigation of social, cultural and CLAN satellite image        ers for the prepara-
                                     environmental vulnerabilities      analysis reports on         tion of plans for
                                     through 20 projects                diachronic cultural         traditional ecosys-
                                                                        land uses.                  temmanagement.

                                                                                                   D Productive propos-
                                                                                                     als that have been
                                                                                                     validated locally.

                                                                                                     Successful experi-
                                                                                                     ences and method-
                                                                                                     ologies concerning
                                                                                                     local productive
                                                                                                     administration.




                                                         - 40 -

  Development o f culturally                                            ?rojectmonitoring
                                  @ Regional supply of traditional                                1 Environmental ser-
  appropriate products,             products determined, and            -eports, community          vices valuated and
  markets,and services for          marketingo f these products         eegistries, evaluation      valuable to local
  environmental sustainability      carried out with the participation  Norkshops andbusi-          communities.
  inindigenous communities          o f at least 400 indigenous         ness plans.
                                    communities.                                                  1 Exist markets for
                                                                                                    traditional products

                                  @ Regional offer o f carbon credits                               o f indigenous com-
                                    determined, and support to                                      munities
                                    marketing efforts for these
                                    credits inat least 400 indigenous                             b Sufficient economic

                                    communities.                                                    resources available
                                                                                                    and successful
                                    Regional biodiversity protection                                experiences o f
                                    and other environmental services                                valuation o ftradi-
                                    producedby indigenous commu-                                    tional ecosystem
                                    nities determined,and their                                     management.
                                    marketing carried out inat least
                                    400 communities.                                              @ Markets to sell
                                                                                                    environmental ser-
                                    3 regional networks o f commu-                                  vices develop.
                                    nity ecolethnotourism designed
                                    andtheir marketing initiated and                                Ecotourism operator

                                    8 communities with                                               companies willing tc

                                    ecolethnotourism businessplan                                    establish joint ven-

                                    for joint ventures                                               tures with indige-
                                                                                                     nous communities
                                                                                                     for ecolethno-
                                                                                                     tourism projects.


1. Participatory project             35 communities have developed      Project monitoring        0  M&Eleads to
   monitoring and evaluation         organizational and technical       reports, community           improvements and
                                     capacities for evaluation o f pro- registries, and evalua-      broader acceptance
                                    ject impacts.                       tion workshops and           o fproject methodol-
                                                                        CLAN diachronic sat-         ogy
                                  0 Project impacts associatedwith       ellite image analysis
                                    global benefits are monitored and   reports.                   0 Participatory tools
                                    evaluated every year.                                            and mechanisms.

                                    Project goals and outputs includ-                              0 Information quali-
                                    ing development of community                                     fied and valuated by
                                    capacities, effectiveness o f                                    the indigenous
                                    community networks, andtech-                                      communities.
                                    nical assistance activities are
                                    monitored and evaluated every
                                    year.

                                   0 Sociocultural impact o fthe
                                    project intervention model is
                                     evaluated every year.




                                                          -41 -

Project Components I Sub-             Inputs: (budget for each       Project reports:   (from Components
components:                           component)                                        to Outputs)
1,Cultural and institutional          rotal: $16.57 million
   strengthening and capacity         GEF: $2.78 million
   building
(a) Generation and strengthening of
    the organizational, technical and
    administrative capacities o f the
    indigenous communities
    regarding the cultural values
    and the management o f their
    natural resources

(b) Systematization o f standards
    and criteria for traditional
    ecosystem management o f
    indigenous communities,
    including a certification process
    for indigenous communities
    who engage in effective
    ecosystem management

(c) Strengthening o f the negotiation
    and empowerment capacities o f
    the indigenous community
    organizations for traditional
    ecosystem management



2. Promotion of cultural use and      rotal: $17.80 million
  traditional integrated ecosystems   3EF: $2.22 million
  management

(a) Development of sustainable
    cultural land use plans inthe
    project intervention areas

(b) Strengthening o f technical
    capacities for traditional
    management o f the ecosystems
    inthe community areas

(c) Interchange o f experiences o f
    traditional ecosystem
    management

3. Development of culturally          rotal: $11.70 million
   appropriateproducts, markets,      3EF: $3.07 million
   and servicesfor environmental
   sustainability in indigenous
   communities

(a) Quantifying and marketing a
    cnnwlirlntprl reoinnnl wnnlv nf




                                                           - 42 -

I     traditional products

  (b) Exploringopportunities to
      create markets for consolidated
      environmental services derived
      from community projects

  (c) Definingand marketing
      consolidated, community-based
      eco/ethnotourism routes and
      projects

  (d) Identifying, evaluating, and
      marketing community projects
      of traditional ecosystem
      management

  4. Participatory project monitoring  rotal: $2.82million
     and evaluation                    3EF: $0.93 million

  (a) Capacity building on
      participatory monitoring and
      evaluation of both project global
      impacts and project
      implementationas well as
      human development

  (b) Monitoring and evaluation of
      project global benefits

  (c) Monitoring and evaluation of
      project activities

  (d) Evaluation of project
      intervention model basedon
      cultural values and traditional
      management practicesthat
       indigenous communities have
      developed over the centuries
 I




                                                           - 43 -

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description

   CENTRAL AMERICA: Integrated Ecosystem Management in Indigenous Communities

Structure

The project will achieve its objective by:

(a) Creating a network of indigenous communities engaged inbiodiversity conservation and sustainable
    and culturally appropriate land uses.
(b) Buildingorganizationaland institutional capacity across countries and groups.
(c) Promoting exchanges between indigenous communities on traditional knowledge, experiences, and
    lessons learned.
(d) Developing an enablingenvironment to reorient projects that deal with sustainable rural development
    and conservation areas so that they include activities and approachesthat promote participatory land
    use planning in indigenous lands and regions.

(e) Consolidating culturally based sustainablenaturalresource management practices and sustainable
    cultural land use across the region.
(f) Supportingprojects for sustainable production, promotion, and marketingof traditional products,
    environmental services, and eco/ethnotourism.
(g) Conducting participatory monitoring and evaluation of progress inthe conservation and sustainable
    use of biological diversity.

The project has four components, describedinmore detailbelow. Component 1focuses on strengthening
the fundamental institutional and administrative capacity of communities to enablethemto carry out the
other project components.Component 2 emphasizes implementation and managemento f actual landuse
plans. Component 3 builds sustainable economic activities compatible with these landuse plans and cultural
values. Component 4 finances participatory monitoring and evaluation of projects activities and impacts.

The IDBwill beresponsiblefor Components 1and 2, while the World Bank will beresponsible for
Components 3 and 4. Use of project funds for procurement will be carried out inaccordance with the norms
and proceduresofthe agencyresponsible for each component. However, for local procurement (as inmost
cases for this project) there are only minor differences betweenthe procurement norms for the two banks.

ACICAFOC will be the executing agency, and will form a project coordination unit (PCU) that will have
responsibility for project management and flow of funds. A Project Council, composed of representatives
from Wayib and CCAD, will provide guidance to the PCU and review and approve major project
operational and financial reports such as the annual report, operational plan, and audit.

Liaison Organizations (LOs) have been identified in each of the project's six priority subregions to
promote the project, facilitate coordination within and between participatingcommunities, oversee
project activities, and execute subprojects or sign agreementswith communities to execute their own
subprojects. The LOs, chosen competitively and through careful institutional analysis, will be responsible
for selection of conservation priority areas within their subregions and for screening the proposals to be
reviewed by the PCU. EachLO will hire atechnical specialist and an administrativeto support project
activities. These staff will follow the norms and procedures established inthe project operational manual,
including application o f specific criteria for screening community proposals. They will also help identify
procurement needs for the local investments and assistthe PCU in preparation of the project's annual
operational plan.



                                                    - 44 -

                      -
          Project Implementation Structure and Flow of Funds
                        I   Global Environment Facility (GEF)




                                                                       Inter-American
              World Bank (IBRD)



                                                      I                                    I                           I
                                                                                                Project Council:
                                                                                                  Wayib + CCAD
                                I
                                r       ExecutingAgency                     I


                                             (ACICAFOC)



                                      G        Coordinator


                        Admin. Asst.



                   Procurement                  2 Technical                   Accountant
                     officer
 I                                          I                    I        I                    I




                                                       I




                                            Project Priority Areas
(See Annex 2, Table 1for countries corresponding to the six project priority areas. Liaison Organizations will
work directly with communities in the priority areas via a technical liaison officer and administrative assistant.)




                                                       - 45 -

Projectdesign

The project will have incremental activities proposed for financing bythe GEF to strengthen the capacity
of indigenous communities inthe Central American region (Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, El Salvador,
Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama) to protect and managetheir natural and cultural resources, and to
recuperate and promote positive cultural values and traditional land use practices. This would enhance the
sustainability of human-managed systemsthat have been evolving for centuries inCentral America and
that conserve high levels of biodiversity, but are under increasing threat.

 The project area includes six priority subregions selected on the basis of biodiversity richness,
 conservation threat, and characteristics of the indigenous communities. These priority areas were
 identified through analyses, studies, and consultation financed through a GEF project preparation grant
 (Block-B). Within these subregions 558 communities in areas with relatively high biodiversity values
were identifiedas prospective project participants through a participatory social assessment that included
measures of interest and capacity for conservation (see Annex 11).

The social assessment grouped the communities into four categories depending ontheir capacity and
organizational commitment to conservation, and activities were tailored to these different levels of
organization. Transparent criteria for selecting proposals have been developed and will provide a basis
for decisionmaking by the PCU and the LOs.

Design of the components and activities i s based on analysis and information from sample communities,
which will be complemented duringimplementationwith specific baseline analysis for each community
where project activitieswill be carried out.

By Component:

Project Component 1 -Total $16.57 million (GEF $2.78 million implemented by IDB)

Cultural and institutionalstrengtheningand capacity building

Component 1entails strengtheningthe underlyingcapacity of participating communities to assessthe
sustainability of their cultural land use categories and to participate in conservation activities both
internally and inthe regional networks createdto transfer skills, experience, and technical knowledge
across communities and countries inthe MBC.

The component consists of (a) generation and strengthening o fthe organizational, technical and
administrative capacities of the indigenous communities regardingthe articulation and application o f their
cultural values to the management of their natural resources, (b) systematization of standards and criteria
for traditional ecosystem management o f indigenous communities, including a certification process for
indigenous communitieswho engage ineffective ecosystem management, and (c) strengthening of the
negotiation and empowerment capacities o fthe indigenous community organizations for traditional
ecosystem management.

The activities inthis component include organizationof intercommunity training, internshipsfrom one
community to another, and dissemination o f information through written pamphlets and newsletters.
Technical assistancewould also be provided on procurement and financial management and accounting
skills (where not covered by other projects) to enable communitiesto develop the credibility needed for
longer-termfund management. This component will be supported by complementary financing from
projects that include institutional strengthening activities.




                                                   - 46 -

Specific activities to be funded by GEF include (a) capacity building regarding institutional management,
legislation, cultural land use sustainability practices, customary law, and community indigenous rights,
(b) studytours regardinginstitutional and community functions, and (c) community interchange of
experiences and design of projects for traditional ecosystemmanagement.

Project Component 2 -Total $17.80 million (GEF $2.22 million implemented by IDB)

Promotionof sustainableculturalland use and traditionalecosystem management

Underthis component, the project would help develop a progressive series of community conservation
and sustainable cultural landuse plans that together can form a network of land use areas that will yield
greater collective conservation impacts for priority ecosystems in the MBC. Six broad priority areas were
identified duringproject preparation (see table below), within which 45 specific sites were identifiedfor
development of landuse plans incorporatingtraditional ecosystemmanagement.

While some training and interchangeactivities echo those inComponent 1, the focus inComponent 2 will
be on actual planningand managementof conservation areas, while inComponent 1the emphasiswas on
strengtheningthe underlying institutionalandcommunity capacity requiredto undertakethese activities.

Selection criteria for the priority areas for land-use planning include the characteristics of the communal
areas, extent of vegetation cover, ecological importance interms of richness of biodiversity and number
of endemic species, coverage by other projects and financing, and the strength of indigenous knowledge
for management and sustainable use. Category 1communities---those with limited organizational skills
and insufficient experience to effectively carry out conservation activities---would be eligible to receive
financing to develop cultural land use plans (including community conservation action plans, diagnostic
studies, inventories, and training eventsto improve landuse management for biodiversity conservation).
The more advanced and experienced communities (category 2-4) would be eligible for financing of
activities that helpthemto actively managethe community areas designated for biodiversity conservation
and sustainable use, including delimitation ofthe different use areas and promotion o f activities that
enhance sustainableuse inadjacent resource areas.

Activities would include:

(a) Development of sustainable cultural land useplans in theproject intervention areas. Specific
activities include workshops, participatory rural appraisal, cultural land use planning, mapping,
inventories of existingbiodiversity resources, delimitation of conservation areas at the community level,
and development of community bylaws to regulate cultural land use plans. Financing for activities under
this component would range from $5,000 to $18,000 per community, with in-kindcounterpart
contributions-in   the form of local labor and community working meetings-representing           at least 10
percent of total costs.

(b) Strengtheningof technical capacitiesfor traditional management of ecosystems in the community
areas. Two types of activities could be financed for communitiesto develop the information base and the
institutional framework to establish cultural landuse plans for biodiversity conservation. Specific
activities include feasibility studies and strengthening o f technical capacities for traditional management
of biodiversity conservation. Allocation of financial resourceswould be on the order of $2,000 to $8,000
per community, with matching contributions of at least20 percent from local sources.

(e) Interchange of experiences of traditional ecosystem management.Learning by doing interchange of
experiencesprovided by more advanced communities to less advanced ones and strengthening of
community networks.



                                                    - 47 -

Table 1.ProjectPriorityAreas




 1. Maya              Belize         Mopan, Maya, Mam, Kiche, Kaqchikel, Ixil,       P = 2.93 (very high)
                      Guatemala      Itza, Achi, Garifuna, Xinca, Uspanteko,         DD=0.430 (medium)
                                     Tz'utujil, Tektiteko, Poqoman,Poqomchi',        BI=0.518 (important)
                                     Q'eqchi', Sakapulteko

 2. Dry Pacific       ElSalvador     Lenca, Pipil, Cacaopera                         P = 2.784 (very high)
                      Honduras                                                       DD= 0.428 (medium)
                                                                                     BI= 0.517 (important)
                                                                                                 . .
                                                                                    I
 3. Talamanca Bocas Panama           Cabecar, Naso-Teribe, Terraba, Ngobe-Bugle      Pr = 2.758 (very high)
                      Costa Rica     Bribri, Boruca                                  DD= 0.423 (medium)
                                                                                     BI= 0.515 (important)
 4. Sumo-Miskitia     Honduras       Miskito, Sumo, Garihna, Rama, Pech              P = 2.536 (high)
                      Nicaragua                                                      DD=0.378 (relatively stable)
                                                                                     BI=0.494 (relevant)
 5. Darien-Kuna       Panama         Ember&-Wounaan,Kuna de Madungandi,               P = 2.96 (very high)
                                     Kuna de Wargandi, Kuna Yala                      DD= 0.464 (very vulnerable)
                                                                                      BI= 0.534 (important)
 6. HumidAtlantic     Honduras       Garifuna, Islefio, Tolupan                       P = 3.099 (very high)
                                                                                      DD= 0.493 (very vulnerable)
                                                                                      BI= 0.584 (very important)



Project Component 3 Total $11.70 million (GEF $3.07 million implemented by World Bank)
                      -

Development of culturally appropriateproducts,markets,and services for environmental
sustainabilityinindigenouscommunities

This component will channel grant resources to develop culturally appropriate financial mechanisms at
the community level. Specifically, it will finance a progressive series o f community biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use subprojects compatible with the landuse plans being developed in
parallel in Component 2. Subprojects will address the research, marketing, and coordination aspects o f
income-generating activities, as well as a limited number o f small works required to consolidate land use
areas for productive purposes and facilitate productionor provision o f income-generating goods and
services.

Grant activities will focus on income-generating opportunities infour categories: (a) traditional products
(b) environmental services, (c) eco/ethnotourism, and (d) traditional ecosystem management models. The
four categories will have different community counterpart requirements and progression o f grant sizes. In
some cases communities would meet counterpart financing requirements by providing their own labor
and technical assistance, while in others the community would contract private service providers or
purchase small goods and services.

Most o f the financing inthis component would be used for research, analysis, training, coordination, and
marketing o f goods and services, and about $170,000 is earmarked for small works subprojects that
directly support or protect the income-generating activities themselves.




                                                  - 48 -

The activities inthis component, like the landuse planning inComponent 2, will be tailored to the
capacity, commitment, and interest of the participatingcommunities. Category 1communities would be
eligible for grants to helpfinance more basic analysis and training to improve their capacity to link land
use with income generating activities and identify market opportunities, while the more advanced and
experienced communities (Category 2-4) would be eligible for grants to help finance activities that
directly support or promote productive activities and market access.

Dependingonthe number of proposals submitted, selection criteria could includethe financial needs of
the communities to balance investment between more and less active communities. More active
communities are expected to contribute a greater portion of the total investment costs and to provide more
of their own technical assistancefrom professionals residing intheir own communities.

For the most capable and committed communities (Category 4) grants could be viewed as seed money to
establish activities and markets that would generate income or attract other financing that could be
reinvestedin income-generating activities on a loanbasis, thereby creating a sustainable financial
mechanism over the long-term.

The potential scope of activities could includeforest certification studies, market studies, and seed capital
for ecotourism projects, water bottlingplants, nature paths, guide training, mushroom cultivation, resin
collection, carbon sequestration, and other non-timber forest product enterprises. Investments for
protection of income-generating activities could include guard towers, identification markers, fencing,
fire control mechanisms and rehabilitation of forest fringes.

Proposals would be screenedby the LOs, thenforwarded to the PCU for final selection and financing. In
addition to ensuringcompatibility with cultural land use plans and traditional ecosystem management
practices, the LOs would work closely with communitiesand the PCU to ensure that proposals and grant
activities comply with national and local environmental standards, as well as with World Bank safeguard
policies. The feasibility studies of sustainable use projects would addressthe impact o f harvesting and
off-take activities onthe resource base and biodiversity over time.

Training.

Training activities in this component could include development of community legal, financial,
technical, administrative, institutional and entrepreneurial capacity. While some training activities would
be directly contracted by the project and delivered by universities,NGOs, and other nongovernmental or
governmental institutions, the bulk o ftraining activities will be designed and implemented by the
communities themselves. In such cases, the communities would presentthe activities as subproject
proposals.

Another aspect of training would consist of activities to foster alliances and networks among participating
communities andto disseminate experiences and lessons learnedthroughout the project area.

Project Component4 -Total $2.82 million (GEF $0.93 million implementedby World Bank)

Padicipatory projectmonitoringand evaluation

This component would support training and capacity buildingon monitoring and evaluation of project
impacts and also progress inconservation and sustainable use of biological diversity. Itwill finance
scientifically sound monitoring and evaluation of biodiversity to follow project implementation and
biodiversity changes over time.




                                                   - 49 -

Baseline environmental informationthat goes beyond the baseline information already elaborated during
the project preparation process will be determined through in-depthenvironmental analysis inthe six
priority subregions, complementary informationfrom the rest of the MBC, and collaboration with other
complementary initiatives. Evaluation activities will include mid-termreviews and the documentation of
lessons learnedto facilitate dissemination of project findingsto other communities throughout the region.

Activities would include (a) capacity building on participatory monitoring and evaluation of both project
global impacts and project implementationas well as human development; (b) monitoring and evaluation
of project global benefits; (c) monitoring and evaluation of project activities, (d) evaluationof project
intervention models basedon cultural values and traditional management practices that indigenous
communitieshave developed over the centuries.

CommunityTypology and Criteria for SubprojectParticipation

As described inComponent 3, the project would channelresourcesto communities to finance a progressive
series of community conservation activities and subprojectstailoredto the level of organization and
willingnessofparticipatingcommunities to undertake long-term conservation commitments.

A detailed typology of activities and subprojects is contained inthe Project OperationalManual to help
guide communities, LOs, and the PCU in selecting appropriate activities for project financing for each
community. These different activities and subprojects have definedranges of financing and specific
minimumcommunity counterpart financing requirements according to the category ofthe community.
The grants will be givendirectly to communities that have signed agreementswith the LOs (or
ACICAFOC in areas not covered by an LO), or in cases where the communities do not have sufficient
capacity to managetheir own funds, the subproject grants will be executed by the LOs or ACICAFOC. In
some cases, communities will provide their own labor and technical assistance,while inothers the
community will contract private service producers or purchase small goods and services.

However, becausethe needs and characteristics of each community are unique and will develop over the
course of the project, there are not strict and clear-cut links between community categories and types of
activities and subprojects.

The typology of communities is described below, andmore detailed criteria are included inthe Project
Operational Manual. It is expected that communities with less capacity and organization will have a
greater demand and receive more financing for planning and capacity building in general, for Component
2 activities inparticular, and for identification of economic opportunities under Component 3. The more
capable, organized, and experiencedcommunities will request and receive a greater share of financing for
consolidation of conservation areas under Component 2 and for expansion of environmentally friendly
and culturally appropriate economic activities and market opportunities under Component 3 (including
exploration of possibilities of establishing systems of payment for environmental services and creation of
self-sustaining community funds for investment in conservation and productive activities).

All communitieseligible for participation inthe project must:


     0 Be located inpriority biodiversity zones
     0 Contain a minimumarea of biodiversity intheir land boundaries

     0 Express a willingness to conserve areas of biodiversity

     0 Have communal or ejido ownership with legal property rights

     0 Be free of community and border conflicts

     0 Submit proposals that have been agreedon by communal assemblies



                                                   - 50 -

Communities have been classified into four "categories" for purposes o f determiningtheir eligibility for
different levels of financing:

Category 1: Communities with establishedrules of access to their natural resources

    0 N o formal community norms and procedures (bylaws), management plan, and/or assembly
      agreement about the use of and access to community natural resources

    0 Absence o f conservation and sustainableuse initiatives/subprojects

Category 2: Communities with establishednorms and land use plans
    0 Incipient conservation and sustainable use initiatives/subprojects

    0 With or without restricted areas of natural vegetation for sociocultural or environmentalreasons

Category 3: Communities with established conservation areas and management plans

    0 Functioning conservation and sustainable use initiatives/subprojects

    0 Restrictedareas of naturalvegetation for sociocultural or environmentalreasons

Category 4: Communities with enterprisesthat have separateadministrative structures

    0 Have characteristics of Category 3 communities

    0 Enterprises for the use of community resourcesthat have administrative structures independent of
      the community political entity

The recognized authority or decisionmaking body or in eachcommunity (consejo comunitario, assembly,
etc.) will make the initial selection of proposals to present to the LOs basedon the relevant criteria and on
their category accordingto the community typology.

The Liaison Organizations (LOs) will be responsible for screening the proposals and decidingwhich ones
to pass onto the PCU for review and approval. They are expected to be flexible inchoosingprojects
since the line between communitytypology categories is not always clear-cut. Inaddition to the typology,
the LOs would use additional criteriato evaluate and decide betweenproposals presentedby eligible
communities, including:

Feasibility -project has a highprobability of success
Organization-sufficient community organization to guaranteeoperation ofthe project
Replicability -project provides replicable model of an innovative project, activity, or strategy
Environmentalconcerns -proposed area of conservation i s under direct and immediate threat
Level of need-community has clear needfor external financial resources.

Transparency and accountability inthe selection process will be enhanced by the prior categorizationo f
the communities, the guidance for correlationbetween community categories and subproject typology in
the Project Operational Manual, and openness by project entities inexplaining their decisions.
Nevertheless, the selection is not an exact science and a reasonable degree of discretion andjudgment on
the part ofthe LOs and PCUmustbe accepted.




                                                    - 5 1 -

                                   Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs

  CENTRAL AMERICA: IntegratedEcosystem Managementin Indigenous Communities


                                                                         Foreign         Total
             ProjectCost By Component                                  US $million     US $million-
                                                         1
 1. Cultural and institutional strengtheningand                                           337
    capacity building
 2. Promotion o f cultural use and integrated                2.95                         2.95
    ecosystemsmanagement
 3. Development o f culturally appropriate products,         3.53                         3.53
    markets, and services for environmental
    sustainability in indigenous communities
 4. Participatory project monitoring and evaluation          1.15                          1.15
 Total BaselineCost                                          11.50                       11.50

 PhysicalContingencies                                   I


 PriceContingencies
                        Total ProjectCosts                   11.50                       11.50
                 Total FinancingRequired                     11.50                       11.50

Note: Table includes $4 million in GEF grant financing implementedby the World Bank, $5 million in
GEF grant financing implementedbythe IDB, $2.5 million incofinancingfrom CCAD and local
communities. There will also be $12.3 million infinancing from Complementary IBRDprojects under
separate implementation, and $25.1 million infinancing from complementary IDB projects under separate
implementation. This complementary financing is detailed inAnnexes 14 and 15.       E




                                                 - 52 -

                               Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis

CENTRAL AMERICA: Integrated Ecosystem Management in Indigenous Communities

The project development`global objective o fthe project is to achieve more effective biodiversity
conservation inCentral America (Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica,
and Panama) by strengthening the capacity of indigenous communitiesto protect andmanage their
natural and cultural resources, and by recuperating and promoting the positive cultural values and
traditional landuse practices they have developed over centuries, thereby helpingto (a) prevent further
land degradation that threatens environmental services, livelihoods, and economic well-being, and (b)
conserve the region's highthough increasingly threatened biodiversity resources.The project will
support and expand the initiatives of indigenous communitieswithinthe Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor (MBC), that inhabit areas of highbiodiversity and whose livelihoods depend on preservation
o ftheir cultural values andthe promotiontheir traditional landuse practices. The long-term outcome
would bethat successful andproven regional models are effectively adopted in local and national
initiatives, including World Bank and IDB-assistedprojects, andthat a common vision emerges
among indigenous communities on how to best managetheir traditional values.

The GEF alternative intendsto achievethis objective at atotal incrementalcost of approximately US$9.0
million. The planned activities are designedto (a) strengthenthe capacity ofthese communities by
promotingan exchange of indigenous traditionalknowledge andexperiencebetweenthem, (b)
consolidate culturallybasedmanagementpractices and standardsacross the regionto foment an
institutionalframework for conservation andmarketingoftraditional products and environmental
services, and(c) encourageimproved, cultural-based managementpractices in govemment protected
areas.

                           Context: Threats and Broad Development Goals

Central America is rich inenvironmental endowments, culture, and tradition. Since 1995, the Central
American countries have participatedin an environmental initiative to maintain the genetic viability
and existingnaturalresourcesofthe Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC) as a continuous
ecosystem extending from southern Mexicoto northern Colombia. The CentralAmerican portion of
this corridor, which is under strong pressurefrom the agriculturalfrontier, hasextremely high
biological diversity and large numbers of endemic species, and its extensive forests constitute a major
terrestrial carbon sink. The natural richness of CentralAmerica i s reflected in the fact that this small
tropical region has 20 life zones ranging from semi-desert to cloud forest, `with8 percent of the
world's known plant species and 10 percent o f its vertebrates. The region also has a distinct,
heterogeneousnature with extremely steep terrain, ample variety o f climate, and perhaps a higher
propensity for natural disasters than any other territory onthe planet.

Culturally speaking, there are 14 distinct ethnic groups o f indigenous peoples in Central America, who
speak 39 languages, and total 6.7 million people or about 24 percent ofthe total population inthe
seven countries inthe region. Not surprisingly, outside o f Guatemala indigenous peoples are
concentrated inthat areas that are less populatedand that include the remainingconcentrations of
intact natural forests and ecosystems. About 23 percent o f the region's national protectedareas overlap
with indigenous populations, which isnotcoincidental.Historically, indigenous peoples have hada
strong relationshipwith the natural resource base intheir culture, livelihood strategies, and value
systems. The ecosystemsof many areas of highbiodiversity have been shaped by human management
practices relatedto subsistence agriculture, home gardens, forest extraction, huntingor gathering
practices, and the use of forests as a refuge from mainstream society and as sacred sites.




                                                 - 53 -

Inrecentyears, landregularizationandregistration initiatives have been shapedby environmental
policy dialogue. Firsto f all, these initiatives are more respectful of common property regimes and co
management schemes that maintainthe environmental value of upper watersheds and priority coastal
and inlandeco-zonesthrough local action. Second, while none ofthe countries inthe region have
created an adequatelegalframework for establishing the tenure rights o f indigenous peoples over their
remainingtraditional territories, there is partial recognitiono f communal indigenous rights, such as the
coinarcus inPanamaand the autonomous region inNicaraguawith multiethnic governance. Third,
various countries provide either co managementrights innationally declared protected areas or define
long-term usufruct rights in lands contiguous to individually claimed indigenous lands. Fourth. there i s
also growing recognitionthat viable ecosystemmanagement systems can be found inexisting
indigenous lands inthe form of cultural landuse categories associatedwith a system o f landtenure,
inheritance, and a traditional normativeframework for specific uses of each category, without the
environmentalcommunity havingto "create" them.

Inparallel, indigenous communitieshavethemselves becomemore aware oftheir constitutional rights
and oftheir internationalpolitical space, including ILO Convention 169 and Article 86) ofthe
Convention o f Biological Diversity (CBD). They increasinglytake public stances on their cultural
values related to community resource managementand the needto securetheir tenure and control over
those resources. A growing number o f indigenous communities have developed modern landuse plans
for their titled lands or those parts of protected areas established intheir historicalterritories. These
plans aim to enhance and sustainthe natural resource base and conserve a portion for its permanent
ecological, cultural, andbiodiversity values. These landuse plansdraw from the kindo ftraditional
knowledge that established traditional land use mosaics around different types o f biodiversity, soil,
water, and (implicitly) carbon sequestration by forests.

Despitethese positive developments, there are serious threats to indigenous ecosystem management
throughout Central America. Poverty and the needfor immediate income streams leadto continued
clearing of agricultural plots bythe indigenous peoplesthemselves, and shorter rotation cycles
resultinginless diversification of crops, plants, and forest products. Italso frequently leadsthem to
sell their timber resourcesto outsiders for negligible sums o f money as a way to raise cash. Outside
settlers move into areas of traditional rotation agriculture and permanently clear them for pasture and
agro-pasture, further displacing indigenous systems. Cleared lands are being farmed unsustainably for
longer periods and there are no resourcesto restore degraded soils.

Another challenge isthat long-term sustainability of indigenous systems requires several policyand
program inputs.First,indigenous communities mustdevelop new sources of income andservicesthat
allow them to improvetheir welfare without sacrificingtheir traditionalresource conservation activities.
Inaddition, suchan adaptationshouldbe done inaway that would allow them inanappropriate manner
to successfully articulatetheir traditional subsistence economiesto the market. Second, existing best
practices should be disseminatedamong indigenous communities on management standards and
sustainablecultural practices, no timber forestry basedenterprises, and integrated farmingsystemsthat
foster biodiversity ingardensand agricultural plots. Third, recentprogress should be continuedtoward
consolidating the legaltenure of indigenous territories andto foster cultural landuse mapping,
regularization, andmanagementplanning.Fourth, there is a needto establish standardsandcriteria for
indigenous ecosystemmanagementthat provides a basisfor compensating indigenous communities for
the environmental servicesthey provide, andwhich are neededbythe local, national, and global
community. These standardswill create sustainablemechanismsfor providing such compensation,
consistentwith the specific needso f indigenous communities. This fourth areahas received very little
attention bythe environmental programs inCentral America overall, eventhough maintaining these
systems can be a very cost-effective means to meet environmental goals. Rather thanrestricting




                                                   - 54 -

indigenous people's activities, acompensationmarket would rewardthose managementpractices that
achieve global andnational goals, whilehelpingto mitigatethe extreme poverty inwhich indigenous
peoples live.

The broad development goals of the seven participatingCentral American countries focus on poverty
alleviation, natural resourcesmanagement, and reductiono f social and economic inequalities,
especially inrural areas. Costa Rica, Panama, and Honduras also share a specific emphasis on
indigenous peoples development. Inaddition, all Central America governments value the
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC) as atool for environmental stability and the importance of
incorporating indigenous development and natural resourcesmanagement into poverty reduction
strategies.Inthis regard, there i s an overall recognition o fthe value o f regional cooperation for the
management and sustainableuse ofthese valuable resourcesthat are vitally interconnected acrosstheir
national borders andwhich provide a wide range of environmental products and services, essential for
the economic competitiveness and social stability ofthe region. The project supportsthese
development goals andregionalvision bypromoting sustainable use o f natural resourcesand
generation o f sustained benefit flows from strengthenedregional cooperation and emergingnetworks
among indigenouscommunities involved intraditional ecosystem management.


                                              Baseline Scenario

Scope.The baseline consists of projectsthat affect indigenous communities inthe region, which focus
on national protected areas, community conservation and sustainable use, rural development and rural
poverty, and land administration, as well as potential indigenous people development projects. The
following discussion o fthe Baseline Scenario activities i s divided as follows: (a) activities financed by
international institutions; and (b) activities financed by other donors, such as bilateral and NGOs.

ActivitiesJinanced by multilateral lending institutions.Boththe World Bank and IDBpromote
projects inthe CentralAmerica region that address problemso f rural development and poverty, while
conserving the ecological base of the region. These involve agricultural productivity and extension
services, including land administration; rural finance; forestry development; irrigation interventions;
and watershed management. More specifically, there are World Bank- and/or IDB-financedrural
poverty alleviation projects in Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, ElSalvador, and
Panama. Many ofthese projects reflect an integrated approach to rural poverty alleviation that
recognizes that promoting sustainable increases in productivity must include attention to markets and
infrastructure, availability o f rural finance, and access to landand natural resourcesas well as
increasing attentionto the naturalresource baseto mitigate the effects o f natural disasters.

Both World Bank and IDBlandadministrationand/or land fundprojects are currently either under
implementation or inpreparation inall the seven Central American countries due to the recognition o f
the effect that unclear property rights and a skewed distribution of land has on growth and
development. Some o fthese projects include strategiesto register indigenous rightsand claims. In
addition, some projects include an emphasis on biodiversity and priority ecosystemsto clarify tenure
and landuse zoning for environmentalprotection and sustainability o f global and localenvironmental
services.

The World Bank is also currently considering financing national indigenous capacity-building projects
inHonduras and Guatemala. These initiatives wouldbuildon the earlier preparedIndigenousPeoples
Profiles in Central America, and the WB/ONECA/CCAD for strengthening Afro-Caribbean
communities in CentralAmerica. They would aim to support the governments' national dialogue with
indigenous peoples and to strengthen the capacity of indigenous organizations through administrative



                                                   -55 -

and planning skills, consolidation of land rights, and experience inproject management and
evaluation.

Other Donor-FundedProjects. Additional relevant national-level activities inthe region financed
with support from bilateralor NGO assistanceinclude:

Activities supporting community-based management o f naturalresourcesand capacity building of
local NGOs, including 9 IFADproject with components of work with indigenous communities in
Central America, the COSUDE Environmental Policy and Legislationproject, the DANIDA-funded
"Conservation o fthe Coastal Ecosystems inthe Gulf of Fonseca(PROGOLFO)" and the USAID-
funded "Regional EnvironmentProgram for Central America (PROARCA/COSTAS)," implemented
with support from WWF, TheNature Conservancy, and the University ofRhode Island. These
programs support capacity buildingand empowerment o f local communities inthe development of
strategies for the sustainableuse of coastal resources. Whereas the former focuses on the Gulf of
Fonsecathe latter focuses on pilot areas inBelize, Guatemala and Honduras. Projects supportingthe
environmental monitoring include the NASAWB andthe NASA/USAID/CCAD projects for
monitoring land cover, carbon emission modeling, and the regional integration o f Geographic
Information Systems.

Costs. The cost o f Baseline Scenario investments inthe sevenparticipating countries totals US$45.356
million. Ofthese resources, approximately US$18.17 million is directed towards institutional
strengthening and capacity building; US$6.85 million for promotion and support o f sustainable use
and management o f ecosystems; US$18.46 million for development o f financing mechanisms for
financial sustainability; andUS$1.88 million for participatory monitoringand evaluation of
biodiversity.

Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result inthe following domestic benefits: (a)
rural development projects that generate greater food security inmarginal and upland areas and
diversified farming systemswithout promotion of indigenous IEMmodels; (b) modernized land
administration systems with combined registry and cadastral information bases for landtenure that
address indigenous rightsand claims; (c) enhancedbiodiversity protection inpriority protectedareas,
reserves, andtheir buffer zones in indigenous lands inGuatemala, Panama, Honduras, andNicaragua;
(d) involvement of a smallpercentageof indigenous populationsas benejkiaries o fprotectedareas
management and landadministrationprojects; (e) financing of sustainable investments for
environmental services ina limitednumber o f indigenous communities inCosta Rica and El Salvador;
and(f) pilotingof community carbon sequestration mechanisms underthe existingnational and
international framework to provide interested communitieswithinthe project areathe opportunity to
manage a limited amount of capital inlong-term investments and to learn management o f carbon
sequestration funds.

                                   GlobalEnvironmentalObjective

Scope. The overall goal of the GEF Alternative is to promote Traditional Ecosystems Management
(TEM) inindigenous landsthrough support to an emergingnetwork of indigenous communities
engagedin IEMin Central America.

Costs. The total cost ofthe GEF Alternative is estimated at US$54.36 million, detailed as follows: (a)
institutional strengthening and capacity building-US$20.95     million (GEFJinancing US2.78
million); (b) promotion and support of sustainable use and management of ecosystems-US$9.07
million (GEFJinancing UX32.22million); (c) development of culturally appropriate products, markets,
and services for environmental sustainability inindigenous communities-US$2      1.58 million (GEF


                                                - 56 -

Jinancing US$3.07million); (d) participatorybiodiversity and project monitoring and evaluation-
US$2.76 million (GEFJinancing US$O.93million).

Benefits. Implementation ofthe GEFAlternative would enhancethe sustainability o f human-managed
systemsthat have been evolving for centuries inCentral America, conserving highlevels of
biodiversity, butthat have become under increasingthreat. Overall, the project will also buildthe
capacity of indigenous communities to activebparticipate in and benefit from ruraldevelopment and
land administrationprojects so that traditional ecosystem models relatedto culturally baseduses ofthe
landthat would benefit global biodiversity conservation remain intact.

The more specific globalbenefits generatedfrom the projectwould include support to a regional
network of indigenous communities involved intraditional ecosystemmanagement to (a) promote
community-to-community learningand exchangesof knowledge on management practices and
standards, (b) assist community leaders inareas that are benefitingfrom existing GEF and other
projects, to share their experienceswith communities across LatinAmerica, and (c) identification and
fostering o f sustainable financing for carbon sequestration(ago forestry and natural regeneration of
forests), landscape-wide conservation, including markets for environmental services andfor financing
recurrent costs of resource management ina manner to protect food security basedon subsistence
traditional economies while fostering sustainablemarket alternatives.

Other global benefits include (a) increasedorganizational and administrative capacity o f regional
organizations and interested communities to protect and managebiodiversity intheir territory ina
sustainable manner both within community conservation areas and adjacent lands; (b) consolidation of
institutionalandtechnical practices for establishing community-based biological areas; (c)
strengthening o f indigenous IEMsystems, including culturally specific land mapping, cultural landuse
sustainability adjustments, and regularizationand delimitation of conservation areas withintheir
indigenous territories and addressingthe incorporationo f indigenous youth, women, and elders inthe
development o f management plans and sustainableuse systems; and (d) establishment o f mechanisms
for channeling financing on a demand-driven basisto indigenous communities inareas of high
biodiversity.

The additional global benefits mentionedabove, include development and strengthening o f new,
innovative and replicable institutionalarrangementsfor integrated ecosystem management. These are
considered to have positive biodiversity impacts not only inthe specific areas affectedbythe proposed
project, but also areplicability effect more broadly through Central America and inother locations in
LatinAmerica with ecological significance and indigenous people whose practices and governance
structures can be made an integral part o f biodiversityprotection and sustainable land use.

                                            Incremental Costs

The difference betweenthe cost ofthe Baseline Scenario (US$45.36 million) andthe cost of the GEF
Alternative (US$54.36 million) is estimated at US$9.0 million. This representsthe incremental cost
for achieving global environmentalbenefits from biodiversity conservation through the establishment
and sustainableuse and management of protected areas within extensive indigenous communities in
the biodiversity-richparts of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor.




                                                 - 57 -

                                  IncrementalCost Matrix

.'ona~'onenf                     US$
: e c m                         nrillion
I. Cultural and                 $18.17   Strengthenedenvironmental
   Institutional                         md land administration insti-
   Strengthening                         utions; increasedpublic sector
   andCapacity                           :apacity to managenaturalre-
   Building                              iourcesand administer natural
                                         'esource managementpro-
                                         yams; development o fpolicies
                                         For indigenous landrights

                  With GEF      $20.95                                    'acilitation o f discussion and
                  Alternative                                             lisseminationo f sharedland
                                                                          ights policies across region
                                                                          .obuildcapacity of indige-
                                                                          ious communities to develop
                                                                          .egalandpolicy frameworks
                                                                          For conservation and sustain-
                                                                          ibleuse areas.

                  Incremental    $2.78

2. Promotion o f    Baseline     $6.85   Development o f mgtplans for
    Cultural Use                         forestry, agroforestry and sus-
    and                                  tainable biodiversity use (incl.
    Traditional                          cacao, banana, and coffee pro-
    Ecosystem                            duction) innational protected

    Management                           areas and their bufferzones;
                                         increased support at the local
                                         level for biodiversity conser-
                                         vation and sustainable
                                         resource use.

                                         Financing anddevelopment of
                                          land regularization process in
                                          indigenous areas, for protected
                                          areas system, and rightso f
                                          forest dwellers aroundparks,
                                          methods o f delimiting bounda-
                                          ries for protected areas and
                                          sustainable use areas.

                   With GEF       $9.07   Support to similar landuse      Meaningful participation by
                   Alternative            activities andmgtplans to        indigenous communities in
                                          identifyconservation areas in    biodiversity conservation in
                                          indigenous communities as        priority areas; disseminatior
                                          well as buffer zones for sus-    o f land administration find-
                                          tainable use inareas outside     ings across communities
                                          national protected areas.        throughout Central America
                                                                           and facilitate information-
                                                                           sharingbetween communi-
                                                                           ties inthe region and indi-
                                                                           genous peoples participatinl
                                                                           inongoing landandrural
                                                                           development.

                   Incremental    $2.22




                                           - 58 -

t 'r,nq1onenf         chst         If$$
WCfW                CllttzgUFy   rrtillion                                         Globtrl hen&
3. Development      Baseline     $18.46    restingof sustainable models     levelopment of institutional
o f culturally                             that can be disseminatedto a     :apacity among indigenous
appropriate                                much wider audience with         :omunities to better par-
products,                                  similar ecosystems; evaluation   icipate innational projects
markets, and                               o f the market for environ-      indstrengthentheir capacity
services for                               mental goods and services        o provide viable proposals
environmental                                                               -or M B C financing.
sustainability in                                                           >revision to communities
indigenous
communities                                                                 3articipating inthe national
                                                                            WBC projects with a wider
                                                                            jet o fpotential projects to
                                                                            2ilot intheir communities.
                                                                            Promotion o f sustainable
                                                                            nodels from MSP projects
                                                                            .hrough networks promoted
                                                                            by IEM.

                   With GEF       $21.53   Financing of similar IEM         Improved knowledge o f
                   Alternative             activities and projects that can value o f environmental
                                           be utilized as best practice     services providedby differ-
                                           examples to be disseminated      enttypes o fecosystems;
                                           and shared with communities      increased sustainability o f
                                           in comparable ecosystems         Environmental Services
                                           across Central America;          Programs; increased institu-
                                           Development o f mechanisms       tional capacity for environ-
                                           to market environmental          mental marketing at national
                                           services inlocal, national, and  andinternational level;
                                           international markets            creation o f experience and
                                                                            lessons learned exchanges,
                                                                            expanding the reach o f
                                                                            national project outcomes
                                                                            by allowing mgt models and
                                                                            sustainable use projects to
                                                                            be replicated to many more
                                                                            communities across region.

                                                                            Replication facilitation o f
                                                                            sustainable models to com-
                                                                            munities across Central
                                                                            America, thereby avoiding
                                                                            need to identify andretest
                                                                            similar models inother
                                                                            communitieskountries.

                                                                             Dissemination o f findings tc
                                                                             indigenous communities
                                                                             across region and develop-
                                                                             ment o f standards for envi-
                                                                             ronmental goods and
                                                                             services that will comple-
                                                                             ment national activities.

                   Incremental      $3.01




                                            - 59 -

                    CZJSl
                  category                                                   Glrhxl benefit
                  Baseline     $1.88  Strengthened environmental       Strengthening o ffocal
 Project                              and landadministration insti-    points in each country and
 Monitoring and                       tutions; increased public sector ievelopment o f monitoring
 Evaluation                           capacity to manage natural       standards for environmental
                                      resources and landtenure and     goods and services.
                                      administer natural resources
                                      management programs; devel-
                                      opment o f M&Ecapacity at
                                      national level.

                  With GEF     $2.81                                   Increasedmgt capacity o f
                 Alternative                                           naturalresource manage-
                                                                       ment agencies and indige-
                                                                       nous communities.
                                                                       Improvedknowledge o f
                                                                       environmental services.
                                                                       Effective management o f
                                                                       investments aimed at long-
                                                                       term conservation and sus-
                                                                       tainable use o fglobally
                                                                       significant biodiversity.
                                                                       Development o fM&E
                                                                       capacity andmethodologies
                                                                       at regional level, which will
                                                                       complement and be shared
                                                                       with GEF, land administra-
                                                                       tion, and rural dev. projects.

                 Incremental   $0.93
F
1TOTALS         Baseline      $45.36 I
                With GEF
                Alternative   $54*36 I
                Total
                Increment      $9*0  I




                                       - 60 -

                                 Annex 5: Financial Summary

 CENTRAL AMERICA: Integrated Ecosystem Management in Indigenous Communities
                                         Years Ending

                                       I                IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD                      I
                                       I  Year1     I  year2    I   Year3   I Year4     I Year 5
Total FinancingRequired
 ProjectCosts
  InvestmentCosts                               0.5         1.7   '      1.2        0.9        0.5
 RecurrentCosts
Total ProjectCosts                              0.5         1.7          1.2        0.9        0.5
TotalAnnual Financing                           0.5         1.7          1.2        0.9        0.5

Financing
   IBRDlIDA
   Government
      Central
       Provincial
   Co-financiers
CCAD and LocalCommunities                       0.1         0.2          0.2         0.1       0.1
GEF                                             0.4         1.5          1.o         0.8       0.4
Total Annual Project Financing                  0.5         1.7          1.2         0.9       0.5
Total CumulativeProjectFinancing                0.5         2.2          3.3         4.2       4.7

Main assumptions:
The financial summaryabove only includes GEF financing and cofinancingfrom CCAD and local
communities implementedby the World Bank.




                                           -61 -

                                Annex 6(A): ProcurementArrangements

   CENTRAL AMERICA: IntegratedEcosystem Managementin Indigenous Communities

Procurement

A) ProcurementArrannements

Procurement for the components o fthe proposed project that are implementedby the World Bank would
be carried out inaccordancewith World Bank "Guidelines: Procurement UnderIBRDLoans andIDA
Credits," published inJanuary 1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997,January 1999 and
May 2004) and "Guidelines: SelectionandEnzplojiment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers"
published inJanuary 1997 (revised in September 1999,January 1999,May 2002 and May 2004), and the
provisions stipulated inthe Loan Agreement.

1) Procurement Methods

The methodsto beusedfor the procurement described below, andthe estimated amounts for each
method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each methodare fixed
inTable B.

Procurement o f Goods

Goods procuredunder the World Bank components o fthis project would include computer equipment,
software, field monitoring equipment and o%ce furniture totaling $272,000 equivalent. To the extent
possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into biddingpackages of more than $250,000
equivalent and procuredfollowing International Competitive Bidding(ICB) procedures, usingBank-
issued Standard BiddingDocuments (SBDs). Contracts with estimated values below this threshold per
contract may be procured usingNational Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures and standard bidding
documents agreedwith the Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding
packagesand estimated to cost lessthan $50,000 per contract may be procuredusingShopping (National
/International) procedures basedon a model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.

Procurement o f Small Works

Works estimated to cost lessthan $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procuredunder lump-sum,
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors inresponseto awritten invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description o fthe
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form o f agreement acceptable
to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shallbe made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price quotation for the requiredwork, andwho has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully.

Consulting Services

Consultingservices will be contracted under the World Bank components of this project inthe following
areas of expertise: training, technical assistance on strategic planning, field work monitoring, software
preparation, PCU staff, auditing, etc. These services are estimated to cost about $2.2 million equivalent.

Firms. All contracts for firms will be procuredusingQuality Cost Based Selection (QCBS) except for
small and simple assignmentsthat can be precisely defined and are of a standard or routine nature (such



                                                  - 62 -

as auditing) andthe contracts are estimatedto cost $100,000 equivalent or less which will be procured
usingLeast Cost Selection (LCS). When the assignmentis very small for which the need for preparing
and evaluatingcompetitive proposals i s notjustified and contracts are estimated to cost $50,000 or less
they may be procuredbasedon Consultants Qualifications. Under the circumstances described in
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultants Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to firms on a
sole-source basis, subject to prior approval ofthe Bank.

Individuals. Specialized advisory serviceswill be providedby individual consultants selectedby
comparison o f qualifications ofthree candidatesand hiredinaccordancewith the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Underthe circumstances described inparagraph
5.4 of the ConsultantGuidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-
source basis, subject to prior approval ofthe Bank.

Direct Contracting

Small works, goods and non-consultant services which the Bankagrees meet the requirements for Direct
Contracting described inparagraphs3.6 and 3.7 of the Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits,may be procured inaccordancewith the provisions o f said procurement method.

Operational Costs

Sundryitems, office rental and utilities would befinanced on a declining basis and would be procured
usingthe PCU administrativeprocedures which were reviewedand found acceptableto the Bank.

2) PriorReview Thresholds

The proposedthresholds for prior review are based onthe procurement capacity assessment o fthe project
coordinationunitand are summarized in Table B. Inaddition to this prior review o f individual
procurement actions, the plan and budget for the PCU OperatingCosts will be reviewed and approved by
the Bank annually.

B)Assessment of the Agency's Capacitv to ImplementProcurement

Therecipient and executing agency o fthis GEF grant is the CentralAmerican Indigenousand Peasant
Coordination Association for Community Agroforestry (ACICAFOC). Procurement activities will be
carried out by a Project Coordination Unit(PCU) to be created within ACICAFOC.

An assessment ofthe capacity ofthe PCUto implementprocurement actions for the project hasbeen
carried out andwas approved on May 2004. At that time ACICAFOC didnot have the capacity to carry
out the project activities. An Action Planto createthe PCU and to build its capacity to carry out
procurement and financial management for the project was proposed by the Bank and agreedwith the
legalrepresentative of ACICAFOC. The PCUwill include a Project Coordinator, a Procurement Officer,
an Accountant, two technical staff (to work directly with project components 1, 2, and 3), and an
administrative assistant.

The risks identifiedinthe assessment include: (i) lack of experience byprocurement staff in
                                                   the
procurement management; (ii)    unrealistic procurement planning; and (iii) needto develop a
                                                                           the
procurement and contract monitoring system. The PCU has already presented a detailed planto address
these risks. It involves: (i)promoting a training program for the less experienced staff; (ii)
                                                                                             discussing the
procurement plan with the Bank, creatinga monitoring system and maintaining control o f the




                                                  -63 -

procurement actions by usingsuch monitoring system; and (iii)hiringone consultant to design and help
implement a filing system.

There will be two implementing mechanisms: (a) the community and network activities o f all components
(subprojects, conservation areas establishment, capacity building, and M&E); and (b) all general project
administration and region-wide activities, such as the communications strategy. Through the PCU,
ACICAFOC will administer all project funds for payment of personnel, office costs, personnel travel,
monitoring andevaluation studies, and special studies and technical assistanceto the project as a whole
and will pass funds to the six Liaison Organizations who will disburse for local expenditures such as
logistics for workshops, transportation andper diem for indigenous representativesto attend workshops
or to visit other sites, consultants to provide technicalassistance, etc. All resourcesto be channeled to
communities or networks of communities for landuse planning, buffer zone subprojects, or
community/regional level monitoring and evaluation will flow through the Liaison Organizations under
agreementssigned withthe specific communities, except incommunities not covered by an LO, inwhich
case ACICAFOC will administer or channel the funds directly.

The six Liaison Organizations have beenidentified byACICAFOC and approved bythe Bank. Their
capacity to manage funds and to carry out the kind of procurement processesthat will be used inthe
project (shopping procedures and selection of consultants) will be evaluated bythe PCUbefore any
money i s passedon to them. The PCUwill also provide training inprocurement procedures to these
agencies and will include a detailed implementation manual that will cover procurement and
disbursement procedures.

ACICAFOC i s already preparingthe Operations Manual, which will include, in additionto the
procurement procedures, the StandardBiddingDocuments to be usedfor each procurement method, as
well as model contracts for goods procured on the basis o f shopping and the subsidiary agreementsto be
signed with the Liaison Organizations.

Monitoringof procurement actions and evaluation of contracts awarded under this project are key
activities envisaged inthe action plan, with a specific allocation o f human and financial resources.
Document filing i s expected to comply with the Bank's requirements after the new system i s
implemented. The new systemwill specify the procurement documents to be filed, the PCU staff who
would have access to the files, and the internal security measures for record-keeping.

The overall project risk for procurement is HIGH.

C) ProcurementPlan

At appraisal, the Recipient developed a procurement plan for project implementationthat providedthe
basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per Table A). This planwas approvedby
the Bank and is inthe project files. At the beginningof each calendar year, the Recipient will update the
Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.

D) Freauencv of ProcurementSupervision

Inadditionto the prior review supervision to be carriedout from Bank offices, the capacity assessmentof
the PCU has recommendedone full supervision missionto visit the field to carry out post review o f
procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment (HIGH) the post-review field analysis should
cover a sample of not less than 1 in 5 contracts signed.




                                                    - 64 -

Procurement Methods (TableA)

                     Table A: ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                     (US$ million equivalent)




                                                         (I.lo)            (1.10)
5. Operating Costs                                        0.60     0.68     1.28
                                                         (0.60)            (0.60)
6. Unallocated                                             0.08    0.1I     0.19
                                                          (0.08)           (0.08)
   Total                                 0.27              4.40    6.83    11S O
                                        (0.08)            (3.92)           (4.00)




                                          - 65 -

Prior Review Thresholds (TableB)

Basedonthe above risks, the followingthresholdsfor the projectare recommended:


                                    ContractValue                                Contracts Subject
                                      Threshold           Procurement             to Prior Review
    ExpenditureCategory            (US$ thousands)           Method                 (US$ millions)
1.Works                                  >1,500                ICB                        All
                                      >100<1,500              NCB                         All
                                          4 0 0             Shopping           First2 contracts each yr
2. Goods                                  >250                 ICB                        All
                                        >50<250               NCB             First2 contracts each year
                                          <50               Shopping          First2 contractseach year
3. Services      Firms                    >loo                QCBS                       All
                                        '-50-400               LCS                        All
                                          <50                  CQ             First 2 contracts eachyear
                   Individuals            >25             See SectionV of       All (TOR, evaluation,
                                                            Guidelines               contract, CV)
                                           <25            See SectionV of        Review ofTOR only
                                                            Guidelines
                      Total value of contractssubjectto prior review:        $578,265
                               Overall ProcurementRiskAssessment:            High
       Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissions proposed:                  One every 12months (includes
                                                                             specialprocurement supervision
                                                                             for post-reviewlaudits)

  " Thresholdsgenerallydifferbycountryandproject.Consult"AssessmentofAgency'sCapacitytoImplementProcurement"
  and contactthe RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance




                                                    - 66 -

    Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
     CENTRAL AMERICA: Integrated Ecosystem Managementin Indigenous Communities

FinancialManagement

1. SummaryoftheFinancialManagementAssessment

The proposedproject seeks to increasethe organizational andadministrative capacity ofregional
organizations andinterested communities to protect andmanage biodiversity intheir territory in
a sustainablemanner. The proposedproject covers the following countries: Belize, Costa Rica,
ElSalvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua andPanama. Onthe basis ofthe assessments
performed, the financial managementteam presentsthe following conclusions:

   (i)The    executing agency, ACICAFOC, will be responsible for managing the fiduciary aspects o fthe
         proposed project, through a Project Coordination Unit(PCU), located withinACICAFOC.

   (ii)Overall,ACICAFOChaslimitedcapacitywithrespecttofinancialmanagementanddoesnot
         have extensive experience inmanaging projects financed by the World Bank. However,
         ACICAFOC has shown a willingness to increase its capacity to achieve an acceptable level by
         effectiveness.

   (iii)AssumingthatACICAFOCcarriesouttheproposedactionplanpresentedinthisannex,
         especiallythe staffing of the PCU, it would have inplace adequate financial management
         arrangements that meet the Bank's minimumfiduciary requirements to managethe specific
         financial activities ofthe proposed project.

Itwas agreed(1) that ACICAFOC will open a SpecialAccount (SA)denominated inUSDina
commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank to specifically manage components 3 and 4 o fthe
proposed project; (2) that grant funds will, at least initially, be disbursed to the Special Account on the
basis o f SOEs; (3) that each quarter ACICAFOC will preparethe FinancialMonitoringReports (Fh4Rs)
to be submittedto the World Bank; and (4) that annual project financial statements will be audited in
accordancewith International Standardson Auditing issued bythe International Federation o f
Accountants (IFAC), by independent auditors and inaccordancewith terms of reference (TORS), both
acceptable to the World Bank.

implementingEntities

The executingagency for the proposedprojectwill be ACICAFOC (also knownas CICAFOC), a broad,
regional, community-based organization that seeks to promote local socio-productive integration and
ecological development and strengthening of indigenous, Afro-descendant, and peasant communities. The
organizationwas founded in 1994and is legally headquartered in SanJose, Costa Rica. The members of
ACICAFOC include local organizations, cooperatives and federations that work inthe areas of
ecotourism, agro-forestry, community forestry, agro-ecology, sustainable use and management of natural
resourcesand payment for environmental services. Project implementation will be carried out by
ACICAFOC through a Project CoordinationUnit (PCU), responsible for implementingthe project inthe
field. The unit will have overall financial and accountingresponsibility for the proposed project, including
(i) maintenance of accounting records, (ii)  processing disbursements, (iii)   preparation of project financial
statementsinaccordancewith World Bankguidelines, (iv) management of bank accounts, (v)
management o f financial information systems, (vi) preparation and submission of quarterly Financial
MonitoringReports (FMRs), (vii) preparation and submission ofwithdrawal applications, (viii)
coordination with auditors during the annual financial audit exercise, and (ix) supervision o f fiduciary


                                                   - 67 -

activities of Liaison Organizations. The unit will work in close collaboration with the national and local
indigenous communities inthe project priority areas establishedby CICA and ACICAFOC.

Becausethe proposed project covers multiple countries inCentral America, six Liaison Organizations
(LOs) have been identifiedduringpreparation o fthe project and as the result of an institutional analysis
that took place ineach ofthe project's ecoregions. The LOs will be responsible for facilitating and
promoting the project at the ecoregion level and will have limitedfiduciary responsibilities.Each L O will
follow the operational manual's guidelines for criteria and procedures for promoting the project, selecting
community proposals, and ensuring efficient implementation.

Financial Capacity of ACICAFOC

Because ACICAFOC's overall financial capacity is limited and it lacks extensive experience inmanaging
projects financed bythe World Bank or IDB, a capacity buildingstrategy was developed to improve the
Association's accounting and financial management structure, recruit sufficient staff as part o f a Project
Implementation Unit(PCU) to handle the additionalworkload generatedbythe proposed project, and put
in place operationalmanuals and internalcontrolprocedures as a condition of project effectiveness.

Consideringthe proposed project i s a regional project that will have to perform activities in seven
different countries, the agency's capacity needsto be strongto be able to deal with a complex flow o f
funds involvinga diverse number of currencies andflow of documentation to timely support the
reimbursement of fimds.The agency will also have to manage in-kindcontributions from different
sources and convert them incash for accounting purposes for which it should have a very strong financial
capacity for monitoring andreporting.

The PCU created byACICAFOC to managethe proposed project will be staffed by consultants with
experience working with projects financed by internationalagencieddonors and include a Project
Coordinator, anAdministrative Assistant, two Technical Officers, an Accountant and a Procurement
Officer. It i s anticipated that the Accountant and Procurement Officer will be locatedwithinthe
Accounting Department of ACICAFOC (dedicated to handling only the activities o f the proposed
project), so as to strengthenthe institutionalcapacity ifACTCAFOC.

ACICAFOC has shown awillingness to increaseits capacity to achieve an acceptable level by
effectiveness andcarry out the proposed action plan presented inthis annex, especiallythe staffing o fthe
PCU. With the implementationof the proposed action plan, ACICAFOC would have inplace adequate
financial management arrangementsthat meet the Bank's minimumfiduciary requirements to manage the
specific financial activities o f the proposed.

Staffing

The staff requiredto be hiredfor the PCU should include a Coordinator, an accountant, a
procurement specialist and at least one administrative assistant. The PCU's staff should be
integrated into the Association financial management organization to contribute to buildand
strengthen their sustainable institutional financial managementcapacity. To achieve this goal the
staff to be hired should have extensive and reliable experience working with projects financed by
international agenciesor donors.

Accounting Policiesand Procedures

ACICAFOC is creating a financial management manual to formalize it's accountingpolicies and
procedures. In addition, the operational manual under preparation for the proposed project, will clearly



                                                   - 68 -

establish financial managementpolicies and proceduresaccordingly with InternationalAccounting
Standards. Considering this i s aregional project, different currencies, accounting systems and reports
should be harmonized in order to ensure informationconsolidation and integration.

Reportingand Monitoring

Project management-oriented financial monitoring reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring
and supervision. The FMRwill include a narrative outlining the major project achievements for the
quarter, the project's sources and uses of funds, a detailed analysis of expenditures by sub-component, a
physical progress report, a procurement reports and a procurement table. Itwas agreedthat the same
FMRswill be usedto meetthe reportingrequirements of boththe World Bank andthe Inter-American
DevelopmentBank.

InformationTechnology (IT) Systems

The Association bought anon-the-shelve financial informationsystem which satisfies most ofthe
budgeting, accountingand bankingrequirements. The system i s not very sophisticated but complies with
the project andthe entity more fundamental informationneeds. There will be needto buy a standard
project management software which will feel the information gap for project management and
procurement implementation and monitoring ifthis two systemswill be inter-related bytransferring the
information inan automatic manner.

Action Plan

                                        du         icator                   esponsi          Dead1ine
 1     Operationalmanual            OperationalManualapproved and            ACICAFOC        Effectiveness
       preparation                  ready for implementation
2      Externalauditors contract    Contract signed                          ACICAFOC        3 months after
       process                                                                               Effectiveness
3      IT systemavailable           Financialmanagementand information       ACICAFOC/       Effectiveness
                                    systemimplementedat ACICAFOC                 LOS
                                    andLOs
4      AccountingandBudgeting       Chart ofaccountsprepared, counter-       ACICAFOC        Effectiveness
       arrangementsdesigned         partresourcesand inkindcontribu-
                                    tions defined
 5     PCU Staffing                 Contract signedwith key staff ofthe      ACICAFOC        Effectiveness
                                    PCUandLOs
 6     Subsidiary agreementsbe-     Agreements signedand approved            ACICAFOC        Disbursement
       tweenACICAFOC andLOs
 7     MonitoringandEvaluation      Submit fvst FMR                          ACICAFOC        45 days after the
       designed                                                                              end ofthe first
                                                                                             full quarter

Supervision Plan

Duringproject preparation and negotiations, the WorldBankand IDBwill providetechnical support for
the design of financial management arrangements.The type, methodology and scope ofthe mentioned
technical support will be established in agreementwith the TTL, financial responsible for the project at
IDBandthe Bank FMSresponsible for the region.

Inaddition, duringproject implementation, the Banks will review the project's financial management
arrangementsintwo mainways: (i)       review the project quarterly financial management reports, periodic


                                                  - 69 -

financial information of ACICAFOC and annual audited financial statements and auditor's management
letter; and (ii)
               duringthe Banks' missions, review the project's financial managementand disbursement
arrangementsto ensure compliance with the Banks' requirement. Accredited financial management
specialists will assist inthe supervision process.

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit

ACICAFOC does not have an internal audit department or specific internal audit procedures. Therefore,
given the size and scope ofthe project (specifically the implementation indifferent countries), inorder to
ensurethat resources are used for the purposesintended, it is recommendedthat while producingannual
audit reports, external auditors undertake quarterly visits inthe various countries and report on the
internal control procedures of the project with the respective management letters.

External Audit

The project financial statementsaudits (including those of ACICAFOC) will be conducted in accordance
with International StandardsofAuditing(ISA) by independent privateauditors andonterms o f reference
acceptable to the Banks. Prior to the contracting o f the auditor, the FMSwill clear the audit terms o f
reference and the auditors' short list (the short list should be acceptable to both Banks, the World Bank
and the IDB).

The annual auditedproject financial statementswill be provided to the Banks within six months o f the
endo f eachfiscal year andalso at the closing ofthe project. The contract for the audit awarded duringthe
first year of project implementation may be extended from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to
satisfactory performance. The cost ofthe audit will be financed from the project resources.

New audit policy o fthe World Bank, documented in "Guidelines: Annual financial reporting and auditing
for World bank-financed projects" will be applicable to the project, as it i s appraised after July 1, 2003.
This means, that interms ofaudit opinion onproject accounting records maintainedbyACICAFOC, a
single audit opinion covering: (i) project financial statements (balance sheet, statement o f sources and
uses of funds, and statement o f uses of funds by project activity), (ii)special account statement, and (iii)
adequacy o f supportingdocumentation maintainedby ACICAFOC inrespect of expenditures claimed for
reimbursement via SOE procedures andeligibility of such expenditures for financing under the respective
Grant Agreement will be required.

Inadditionto the audit opinion, the auditors will have to presentthe management letter, covering: (i)
weaknessesnoted bythe auditors inthe internal control systems o f ACICAFOC, (ii)cases o f application
of inappropriate accounting policies and practices, (iii)  issues regarding general compliance with broad
covenants, and (iv) any other matters that the auditors considers should be brought to the attention o fthe
recipient.

3. DisbursementArrangements

The flow o f funds for the proposed project, which would be confirmed duringnegotiations, calls for grant
funds to be channeledto the project through a Special Account denominated in USDto beestablished by
ACICAFOC ina commercial bank. ACICAFOC will, therefore, operate the Special Account and the
Project Account (inlocal currency to facilitate local payments) and will be responsible for the
management of these accounts. The liaison organizations will not have access to these accounts.




                                                    - 70 -

                                    Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

                                                                                          Financing
  ExpenditureCategory                                   Amount in US$ million            Percentage
  Goods                                                           0.08                         91
  Consultant Services (including audits)                          1.70                         91        I

  Training                                                        0.95                         91
  Subprojects (under Component 3)                                 0.59                         91
  OperatingCosts                                                  0.60                         91
  Unallocated                                                     0.08                         91
  Total Project Costs with Bank Financing                         4.00                                   i
  Total                                                           4.00


 Use of statements of expenditures(SOEs):

 Withdrawal from the grant will made usingsummary of expenditures and SOEs procedures. The limits
 for SOE apply for contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for works, $250,000 equivalent for goods,
 $50,000 equivalent for consultingfirms and $25,000 for individual consultants. Operating costs will also
 be reportedusingSOEprocedures.All supporting documentation for payments usingSOEprocedures
 andother payments ingeneral for project activitieswill be retainedbyACICAFOC for audit purposes and
 made available for the Banks' supervision.

 Special account:

 To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, ACICAFOC will establish in a commercial bank,
 two special accounts inUSdollars under terms and conditions acceptableto the World Bank and the
 Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank.One special account will serve components 3 and 4, under the
 responsibility o fthe World Bank and a separate special account for components 1 and 2, under the
 responsibility o f Inter-American Development Bank. The World Bank will be responsible for disbursing
 $4 million from the GEF grant (the Inter-American Development Bank will be responsible for disbursing
 $5 million). The World Bankwill, upon request, make an authorized allocation of $250,000. Applications
 for the replenishment ofthe SA will be submitted monthly (or when 20 percent o f the initial deposit has
 been utilized, which ever occurs earlier). The replenishment applicationwould be supported by the
.necessarydocumentation, the SAbankstatement, andareconciliationofthisbank statement.

 Project funds will flow from: (i)the World Bankand IDB, either via the SA inUS dollars which will be
 replenished on the basis o f Withdrawal Applications or by direct payments in US dollars. Two project
 bank accounts inlocal currency (colones) will be opened (one for World Bank funds and the other for
 IDBfunds) to managelocalpayments inlocalcurrency from ACICAFOC. Transfers byACICAFOC
 will be made inUS dollars to the different liaison organizations upontheir request directly from the SA.
 Transfers to LOs will be made to cover eligible expenditures, based on approved annual work plans
 submittedby the LOs, with a time limit of no more than 30 days. LOs will operate separatebank
 accounts with project funds and will be responsible for providing monthly expenditure reports to the
 PCU, including a monthly bank reconciliation.

 No withdrawals will be made for payments made for expenditures prior to the date o fthe Grant
 Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregateamount not exceeding $150,000 may be made on
 account of payments made for expenditures before that date butafter June 26,2004.


                                                  -71 -

                                 Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
    CENTRAL AMERICA: IntegratedEcosystemManagementin IndigenousCommunities

 ProjectSchedule                                           Planned                Actual
 Time taken to preparethe project (months)                 8                       28
 First Bank mission (identification)                                            02/05/2001
 Appraisal mission departure                              12/03/2003            0612If2004
 Negotiations                                             1211512003            0813112004
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                            06/15/2004            1213012004


Preparedby:
ACICAFOC

Preparationassistance:
GEFPPG
World BankNetherlands Partnership Fund
IDBIJapan Special Fund
RUTAIIPS
CCAD

Bank staff who worked on the project included:
 Name                              Specialty
 Juan Martinez                     Task Team Leader, Senior Social Scientist
 Francisco Pichon                  Co-Task Team Leader, Senior Natural ResourcesMgmt. Specialist
 MartinRaine                       Sector Leader
 LuisPrada                         Procurement Specialist
 ManuelVargas                      Financial Management Specialist
 Juan Carlos Alvarez               Counsel
 Ricardo Hernandez                 Environment Specialist
 EsmeAbedin                        Operations Analyst
 KarinSheparson                    Senior Regional GEF Coordinator (former)
 Jocelyne Albert                   Senior Regional GEF Coordinator (current)
 LuisM.Schwarz                     Sr. Financial Management Specialist
 Peter Brandriss                   Sr. Program Assistant
 Fabienne Mroczka                  FinancialManagement Specialist
 MariaNikolov                       Sr. Program Assistant




                                                    - 72 -

                             Annex 8: Documentsin the ProjectFile*

CENTRAL AMERICA: Integrated EcosystemManagement in IndigenousCommunities


A. Project Implementation Plan


B. Bank Staff Assessments


1.   Desarrollo de Mecanismo Financieros Culturalmente Apropiados para la Sostenibilidad del
     Ambiente en Comunidades Indigenas, Francisco Chapela;
2.   Monitoreo y EvaluacibnParticipativadel Proyecto. Edgar Ortiz
3.   Evaluacibn Social. Salomon Nahmad
4.   EvaluacibnAmbiental, Pedro Alvarez-Icaza
5.   Analisis Juridic0 de la Problemhtica de Tierras y territorios Indigenas en Centro America. Mario
     Vallejo Larios.
6.   Conocimiento Tradicional sobre Biodiversidad en el Manejo del Proyecto, Grethel Aguilar
7.   Analisisde cost0 Incremental, TineFeldman
8.   Flujo Financiero del Proyecto y Definicibn de la linea de base del Proyecto, Ruben Pasos
9.   Identificacibny Definitionde Eco regiones Prioritarias del Proyecto, Edgar Ortiz
10. Analisis InstitucionalCICA -ACICAFOC, Victor Herniinded C. Hernandez
11. Analisis Financierode 10s Subproyectos, Harold Coronado
12. Mecanismo Financiero(Fondo regionalcomunitario -FRC-) para el PMIE y actividades elegibles
     dentro del FRC, y el ciclo de 10s subproyectos del PMIE, Hans Jansen- Rafael Celis
13. Sistema de Informacibn Geografica, Vladimir Jimenez

14. Manual Operativo del Proyecto, Sith Yin SanchezlRubenPasos
15. Informes de resultados de la ConsultaIndigena por pais e Informe Regional. Consultores Indigenas
16. EnvironmentalManagement Framework, Marco Zambrano
17. Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements, Luis Schwarz
18. Assessment of Agency's Capacityto ImplementProject Procurement, Luis Prada

C. Other
Ostrom, E. 1999. Principios de diseiio de sistemas sosteniblesde recursos gobernadospor la comunidad.
     Santiago de Chile, Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia, V Conferencia electrbnica y
     exposicion virtual en internet "De cara a la globalizacibn: Organizaciones econbmicas campesinas
     en America latinay el Caribe".
Regional Unit for Technical Assistance (RUTA). 2000. Evaluacibn del Potencial de 10s Sewicios
     Ambientales en Pueblos Indigenas. SanJose, Costa Rica.
Tucker, Catherine M. 1999. "Private Versus Common Property Forests: Forest Conditions and Tenure in
     a HonduranCommunity". Human Ecology 27: 201-230.
World BanWWorld Wildlife Fund. 1995.A ConservationAssessment of the TerrestrialEcoregions of
     Latin America and the Caribbean.Washington, D.C.

*Includingelectronicfiles




                                               - 73 -

                              Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits

         CENTRAL AMERICA: Integrated Ecosystem Management in Indigenous Communities
                                     CentralAmerica RegionalProjects


                                                                                              Differencebetween
                                                                                              expected andactual
                                              OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                       disbursements

ProjectID  FY   Purpose                       IBRD      IDA            GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.  Orig     FrniRev'd

PO53349    2001 GEF 6C-MESOAMERICAN            0.00     0.00           11.00   0.00    7.13     1.78      0.00
                BARRIERREEFSYST

                                       Total:  0.00     0.00           11.00   0.00    7.13     1.78      0.00




                                             CENTRAL AMERICA
                                             STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                            Held and DisbursedPortfolio


                                             InMillionsUSDollars


                                                          Committed                       Disbursed
                                                         IFC                              IFC
  FYApproval           Company                   Loan Equity    Quasi     Partic   Loan Equity    Quasi Partic


                          Total Portfolio:




                                                               Approvals Pending Commitment

 FY Approval            Company                              Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic



                        Total PendingCommitment:




                                                  - 74 -

                                     Annex 9: StatementofLoansand Credits
                            BELIZE: 6C Integ.Mgmt. inIndigenousCommunities


                                                                                                                  Differencebetween
                                                                                                                   expectedandactual
                                                           OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                              disbursements

ProjectID   FY    Purpose                               IBRD       IDA      SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.    Frm.Rev'd

PO40150     2001  BZ ROADSAND MUNICIPAL                  13.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      2.31     2.11        0.00
                  DRAINAGEPROJECT

                                                 Total:  13.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      2.31     2.11        0.00




                                                           BELIZE
                                                   STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                   InMillionsofUS Dollars

                                                           Committed                                 Disbursed

                                                          IFC                                      IFC

       FY Approval   Company                   Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic.   Loan        Equity     Quasi     Partic.

        1998         NOVA/Ambergris            4.40        0.00      0.00       0.00      4.40      0.00       0.00       0.00

                              Total uortfilio:  4.40       0.00      0.00       0.00      4.40      0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                                        Approvals PendingCommitment

                      FYApproval  Company                           Loan       Equity      Quasi        Partic




                                       Totalpendingcommittment:     0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00




                                                             - 75 -

                                          Annex 9: StatementofLoansand Credits
                           COSTA RICA: 6C Integ.Mgmt.inIndigenousCommunities


                                                                                                                          Differencebetween
                                                                                                                          expectedandactual
                                                              OriginalAmount inUS$ Millions                                  disbursements

ProjectID     FY   Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA      SF        GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.         Orig.    Frm.Rev'd

PO73892       2002 CR-HealthSector Strengthening& Moderni    17.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     15.94          -1.06       0.00

PO52009       2000 CR ECOMARKETS                             32.63     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     13.68           5.53       0.00
PO61314       2000 GEFCR-ECOMARKETS                           0.00     0.00     0.00      8.00     0.00      5.85          6.65        0.00

PO39876       1998 GEF CRBIODIVERSITY                         0.00     0.00     0.00      7.00     0.00      0.63           6.07       0.00

                                                    Total:   49.63     0.00     0.00     15.00     0.00     36.10          17.19       0.00




                                                          COSTA RICA
                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                   Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                      InMillionsofUS Dollars

      ~    ~~                                                                                                         ~


                                                              Committed                                 Disbursed

                                                             IFC                                       IFC

       FYApproval     Company                     Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic.    Loan       Equity      Quasi         Partic.

       2001           Aeropuerto IJS              35.00       0.00      0.00      85.00     26.33       0.00           0.00      63.93

       1998           CIMA Costa                  0.00        1.20      0.00       0.00       0.00      1.20           0.00       0.00

       2003           Cuswtlancosta               0.00        0.00      5.00       0.00       0.00      0.00           5.00       0.00

       2002           Gutis                       7.00        0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00           0.00       0.00
       1994           HIDROZARCAS                 0.55        0.00      0.65       0.00       0.55      0.00           0.65       0.00
       2001/04        INTERFIN                    15.oo       0.00      5.00       0.00       5.80      0.00           5.00       0.00

       1999           Superunidos                 23.63       0.00     10.00       0.00      10.63      0.00      10.00           0.00

                                  Totalportfilio: 81.18       1.20     20.65      85.00      43.31      1.20      20.65          63.93




                                                                          Approvals PendingCommitment

                       NApproval      Company                          Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic.




                                          Total pendingcommittment:    0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                - 76 -

                                         Annex 9: StatementofLoans and Credits
                         ELSALVADOR: 6CInteg.Mgmt.inIndigenousCommunities

                                                                                                                     Difference between
                                                                                                                     expectedandactual
                                                              OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                              disbursements

ProiectID      FY  Pumose                                   IBRD      IDA      SF       GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.    Ork.      Frm.Rev'd

PO64919       2003 SVJUDICIAL MODERNIZATION                  18.20     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     18.02      5.25        0.00
                   PROJECT

PO67986       2002 SV-EARTQUAKE EMERGENCYREC. &             142.60     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    140.07      -2.53       0.00
                   HEALTH SER

PO50612       1998 SV EDUCATIONREFORM                        88.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     15.02      15.02       15.02

PO41680       1998 SVSECONDARYEDUCATION                      58.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     12.85      12.85       0.00

PO07164       1997 SV PUBLIC SECTORMODERN                    24.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      7.62      7.62        6.97

PO40824       1996 SV COMPETITIVENESSENHA                    16.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      1.27       1.27       0.00

PO07174       1996 SV LAND ADMINISTRATION                    50.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      6.38       6.38       0.14

                                                     Total: 396.80     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    201.23     45.86       22.13




                                                           ELSALVADOR
                                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillionsofUS Dollars

     -
           ~~~


                                                              Committed                                Disbursed

                                                             IFC                                      IFC

       FYApproval     Company                      Loan      Equity    Quasi    Parlic.   Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.

                      AFP Crecer                   0.00       1.20       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.78      0.00         0.00

       2001           CAESSEEO                     43.44      0.00       0.00     70.90     30.02      0.00      0.00       48.54

       2002           CALPIA                       0.00       2.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      1.99       0.00        0.00

        1997/00       CESSA                        0.00       0.37       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.37       0.00        0.00

        I998/03       CUSCATLAN-ES                 0.00       0.00      15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      15.00        0.00

       2004           Metrocentro                  25.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     10.00      0.00       0.00        0.00

        1998          SEF Baterias                 1.29       0.00       0.00      0.00      1.29      0.00       0.00        0.00
        1999          SEF IMACASA                  0.00       0.20       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.20       0.00        0.00

                                  Total portfilio:  69.73     3.77      15.00     70.90     41.31      3.34      15.00      48.54




                                                                           ApprovalsPendingCommitment

                       FY Approval    Company                          Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic.
                      ~


                       2004           CalpiaCLI                     0.01           0.00        0.01        0.00

                                           Totalpendingcommitment:      0.01       0.00        0.01        0.00




                                                                - 77 -

                           GUATEMALA: 6C Integ.Mgmt.inIndigenousCommunities


                                                                                                                     Differencebetween
                                                                                                                     expectedandactual
                                                              OriginalAmount inUS$ Millions                            disbursements

ProiectID    FY   Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA      SF        GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.   Orig,     Frm.Rev'd

PO55085      2003 GT SECONDRURAL AND MAIN                   46.70      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     46.70     2.50        0.00
                  ROADS PROJ.

PO64883      2003 GT WESTERNALTIPLANO NRM                   32.80      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     32.80     1.73        0.00
PO66175      2002 GT INTEGRATEDFIN. MNGT 111-TA             29.75      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     22.99     3.53        0.00
PO76853      2002 GT FinancialSector TA Loan                  5.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      4.75     2.42        0.00
PO74530     2002  GT FinancialSector Adjustment Loan      150.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    100.00    50.00        0.00
PO48652      2001 GT UNIVERSALIZATIONOF BASIC               62.16      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     50.48    25.82        0.00
                  EDUCATION

PO55084     2001  GT COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT                20.30      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     19.32     11.82       0.00

PO47039      1999 GTJUDICIALREFORM                          33.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     14.20     14.20       0.00

PO49386      1999 GT RECONSTR.&LOCALDEV.                    30.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     15.51     15.51       0.00

PO49616      1999 GT LANDADMINISTRATION (APL)               31.OO      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     12.46     12.46       2.83
PO54462      1999 GT LANDFUND(APL)                          23.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      4.64     4.64        0.00

PO48654      1998 GT TAX ADMIN. TAL                         28.20      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     16.05     16.05       0.00

PO35737      1998 GT RURAL& MAINROADS                       66.70       0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     18.72     18.72       0.00

                                                   Total: 558.61        0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00    358.62   179.40        2.83


                                                          GUATEMALA
                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                              Committed                                 Disbursed

                                                             IFC                                       IFC

       FYApproval    Company                     Loan       Equity      Quasi    Partic.   Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic.

       2003          CuscatlanGuatem             0.00         0.00      10.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     10.00       0.00

        1994         Fabrigas                    0.00         0.00        1.oo     0.00       0.00      0.00      1.oo       0.00
       2000          Frutera                     4.90         0.00        0.00     0.00       4.90      0 00      0.00       0.00

       2002          GDO                          15.00       0.00        0.00    12.00      15.00      0.00      0.00      12.00
       2002          Interforest                 6.00         0.00        0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00

        1998         LaFragua                     14.74       0.00        0.00     0.00      14.74      0.00      0.00       0.00

       2002          Occidente                   0.00         0.00      10.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00

        l997/00      Orzunil                     3.24         0.00        0.00     0.00       2.99      0.00      0.00       0.00

        1996         Pantaleon                   3.75         0.00        0.00     0.00       3.75      0.00      0.00       0.00

                                 Totalportfilio.  47.63       0.00      21.00     12.00      41.38      0.00     11.00      12.00



                                                                            ApprovalsPendingCommitment

                      FY Approval     Company                           Loan      Equity       Quasi       Partic

                      2002            Interforest                    0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00

                                           Totalpendingcommittment:     0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                - 78 -

                         Annex 9: Statement of LoansandCredits
            HONDURAS: 6CInteg.Mgmt. inIndigenousCommunities

                                                                                                 Differencebetween
                                                                                                 expected andactual
                                              OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                        disbursements

FY   Purpose                                IBRD      IDA       SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb. Orig.     Frm.Rev'd

2004 HNLANDADMINISTRATION                     0.00    25.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    25.22    1.48      0.00
     PROGRAM

2004 HNTradeFacilitatio&ProductivityEnha      0.00    28.06      0.00      0.00   0.00    30.52   0.76       0.00

2003 HNRegionalDev inthe CopanValley          0.00     12.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   12.44   -0.52      0.00

2003 HNFinancialSectorTechnicalAssistance     0.00     9.90      0.00      0.00    0.00   10.57   0.63        0.00

2002 HNSUSTCOASTALTOURISM                     0.00     5.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    3.45    1.40      -0.15
     PROJECT(LIL)

2002 HN-HEALTHSYSTEMREFORM                    0.00    27.10      0.00      0.00    0.00   28.19    8.71       0.00
     PROJECT

2001 HNECONOMIC& FIN.MANAGEMENT               0.00     19.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   11.71   12.98       0.00
     PROJECT

2001 HNFIFTHSOCIALINVESTMENT                  0.00     60.00     0.00      0.00    0.00   20.25    2.66       0.00
     FUNDPROJECT

2001 HNAccessto LandPilot(PACTA)              0.00      8.00     0.00      0.00    0.00    5.59    3.31       0.00

2001 HNROADRECONSTRUCTIONAND                  0.00     66.50     0.00      0.00    0.00   34.12    3.38       0.00
     IMPROVEMENT

2001 HNCOMMUNITY-BASEDEDUCATION               0.00    41.50      0.00      0.00    0.00   31.29   15.4s       0.00
     PROJECT

2000 HNEMERGDISASTERMGMT(TAL)                 0.00     10.82     0.00      0.00    0.00    7.45    5.97       0.00

1999 HNPROFUTURO                              0.00      8.30     0.00      0.00    0.00    2.93   -1.55       2.66

1998 GEFHN-BIODIVERSITY                       0.00      0.00     0.00      7.00    0.00    1.50    7.00       0.00
     CONSERVATION

                                     Total:   0.00   321.18      0.00       7.00   0.00  225.23   61.69       2.5 1




                                                       - 79 -

                                                 HONDURAS
                                            STATEMENTOFIFC's
                                          HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                            InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                     Committed                           Disbursed

                                                    IFC                                IFC
FY Approval Company                     Loan      Equity      Quasi   Partic. Loan     Equity     Quasi  Partic.

1998        CaminoReal Plaz             6.43         0.00      0.00    0.00     6.43    0.00       0.00   0.00

1995        Elcosa                      0.00         2.63      0.00    0.00     0.00    2.63       0.00   0.00
1999        GranjasMarinas              4.00         0.00      0.00    0.00     4.00    0.00       0.00   0.00

                       Total portfilio:  10.43       2.63      0 00    0.00    10.43    2.63       0.00   0.00




                                                                 ApprovalsPendingCommitment
            FY Approval    Company                            LDOan    Equity    Quasi     Partic.




                                Total pendingcommittment:     0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00




                                                       - 8 0 -

                                         Annex9: Statementof Loansand Credits
                          NICARAGUA: 6C Integ.Mgmt.inIndigenousCommunities

 ~~          ~~                                                                                         ~



                                                                                                                        Differencebetween
                                                                                                                        expectedandactual
                                                               OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                                 disbursements

ProlectID     FY  Purpose                                  IBRD        IDA      SF       GEF     Cancel      Undisb     Orig      Frm.Rev'd

PO82885    2004   NICARAGUAPRSCI                              000      7000      000      000      000         3603       -1 03       0 00

PO78891    2004   NIPUBLIC SECTORTA                           0.00     23.50     0.00     0.00     0.00        23.36      0.00        0.00

PO73246    2003   NIOffgridRuralElectrification(PERZA)        0.00     12.00     0.00     0.00     0.00        15.81      2.53        0.00

PO56018    2002   NILANDADMINISTRATIONPROJECT                 0.00     32.60     0.00     0.00     0.00        35.41       1.57       0.00

PO64906    2001   NIPovertyRed.&Local Dev.FISE                0.00     60.00     0.00     0.00     0.00        34.28     27.28        -9.72

PO64916    2001   NINaturalDisasterVulnerability Reduc        0.00      13.50    0.00     0.00     0.00        11.35      9.61         0.00

PO55823    2001   NISECONDRURALMUNICIPALDEV.                  0.00     28.70     0.00     0.00     0.00        13.03      19.77        0.00

PO68673    2001   NIRoadRehab.andMaintenanceI11               0.00     75.00     0.00     0.00     0.00        26.88    -55.98         0.00

PO70016    2001   NICompetitivenessLIL                        0.00      5.00     0.00     0.00     0.00         3.27       2.36        0.00

PO64915    2000   NIAGTECHN&RURALEDU(APL)                     0.00     23.63     0.00     0.00     0.00         5.37       7.57        0.00
PO56087    2000   NIPensionandFinanc.MarketReformTA            0.00     8.00     0.00     0.00      0.00        1.21      -5.73        0.09

PO49296    2000   NIECONOMICMANAGEMENTTAC                      0.00    20.90     0.00     0.00      0.00        1.16    -19.09         0.00

PO55853    2000   NI TELECOMMUNICATIONREFORM
                    -                                          0.00     15.90    0.00     0.00      0.00        1.06       1.71        0.00

PO50613    2000   NISECONDBASICEDUCATION                       0.00    52.50     0.00     0.00      0.00        7.66    45.23          0.00

PO52080    1999   NlFORESTRY                                   0.00     9.00     0.00     0.00      0.00        0.64       1.08        0.00

PO35753    1998   NIHEALTHSECTI1                               0.00    24.00     0.00     0.00      0.00        2.21       1.81        0.00

PO53705    1998   NITRANSPORTI1                                0.00    47.40     0.00     0.00      0.00         1.41      2.06        0.00

PO41790    1997   GEFNIAtlantic Biological Corridor            0.00      0.00    0.00     7.10      0.00         1.85      7.16        5.06

                                                    Total:     0.00    521.63    0.00     7.10      0.00      221.99   -  42.55      - 4.57


                                                          NICARAGUA
                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     InMillionsofUS Dollars


                                                               Committed                                   Disbursed
                                                              IFC                                        IFC

       FY Approval   Company                     Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.  Loan          Equity      Quasi     Partic.

       2000          Finarca                     0.80          0.00        0.00     0.00      0.80        0.00       0.00         0.00

       1998          Fmtan                       0.39          0.36        0.00     0.00      0.39        0.00       0.00         0.00

       1998          LaColonia                   1.13          0.00        0.50     0.00      1.13        0.00       0.50         0.00

       1999          SEF Dicegsa                 0.50          0.00        0.00     0.00      0.50        0.00       0.00         0.00

                                Total portfilio:   2.82        0.36        0.50     0.00      2.82        0.00       0.50         0.00



                                                                             Approvals Pending Commitment

                      FYApproval    Company                             Loan       Equity      Quasi          Partic.

                      2004          BancaConfia                      0.01           0.00        0.00           0.00

                                          Total pendingcommittment:      0.01       0.00        0.00           0.00




                                                                 - 81 -

                                       Annex 9: Statementof Loansand Credits
                             PANAMA: 6CInteg.Mgmt. inIndigenousCommunities


                                                                                                                      Differencebetween
                                                                                                                      expectedandactual
                                                             OriginalAmount inUS$ Millions                               disbursements

ProiectID   FY    Puruose                                 IBRD       IDA      SF        GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.    Orie.     Frm.Rev'd

PO55844    2002   PAPublicPolicyReformTA Project            10.50     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       5.80      3.30        3.30
PO52021    2001   PA BASICEDUCATIONI1                      35.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      25.60      19.48       0.00

PO50595    2001   PALAND ADMINISTRATION                    47.90      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      39.31     21.11        0.00
PO40179     1999  PAHEALTHPILOT                              4.30     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      1.36       1.36       0.00

PO45937     1998  GEFPA-PAMBC                                0.00     0.00     0.00      8.40      0.00      1.44      8.30        0.00
PO07837     1997  PA-FIS                                   28.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      6.07      6.07        6.07

                                                   Total: 125.70      0.00     0.00      8.40      0.00     79.58      59.62       9.37




                                                             PANAMA
                                                     STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     InMillionsofUS Dollars


                                                              Committed                                 Disbursed

                                                            IFC                                       IFC

       FY Approval   Company                     Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic.    Loan        Equity      Quasi     Partic.

       2003          Aguas Panama                6.00        0.00       0.00     10.00       6.00      0.00       0.00       10.00

       1999          BANISTMO                    14.12       0.00       0.00     16.29      14.12      0.00       0.00       16.29
       2003          BLADEX                      125.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00

       1997/00       BancoGeneralS.              25.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      25.00      0.00       0.00        0.00

       2004          ContinentalPAN              40.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      40.00      0.00       0.00        0.00

       1998          ICA Panama                  19.40       0.00      15.00     24.10      19.40      0.00       15.00      24.10
       1995/00       Manzanillo                  13.20       0.00       0.00      0.00      13.20      0.00        0.00       0.00

       1999          PCRC                        15.OO       5.00       0.00     30.00      15.00      5.00        0.00      30.00

       1999          Suinternacional             4.90        5.00       0.00      0.00       4.90      2.50        0.00       0.00

       2003          UBCI                        0.00        10.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      10.00       0.00       0.00

       2002          UP0Panama                   13.10       0.00       0.00      5.30       0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00

                                 Totalportfilio: 275.72     20.00      15.00     85.69     137.62      17.50      15.00      80.39




                                                                          Approvals PendingCommitment

                      FY Approval   Company                           Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partic.




                                         Total pendingcommittment:     0.00       0.00         0.00         0.00




                                                               - 82 -

                       Annex IO: Country at a Glance

CENTRAL AMERICA: Integrated EcosystemManagement in Indigenous Communities




                               3.3     1.E
                               39     .Q.2
                               g.0     I 1
                               75     -1 I
                               21      8.6
                               $7




                                  - 83 -

- 84 -

- 85 -

- 86 -

 1.T
 28




 17 2
'13.8




    - 87 -

          a




- 88 -

-89-

          a




- 90 -

-91-

          I i  t




- 92 -

       d&
         .? 1  *




-93 -

          d




- 94 -

P




     - 95 -

          I




- 96 -

                                    Additional Annex 11 Social Issues

  CENTRAL AMERICA: integrated EcosystemManagement in indigenous Communities

                                             Social Assessment

introduction

The IntegratedEcosystem Management Project is primarily viewed as a development project for the
indigenous peoples of CentralAmerica and initself is considered an Indigenous Peoples Development
Plan inaccordance with World Bank Operational Directive 4.20. Morethan 90 percent of the project's
beneficiaries are indigenous men andwomen. The social assessmentfor the project is based on
comprehensive participatory studies carried out inGuatemala, Honduras, Belize, El Salvador, Nicaragua,
Costa Rica, andPanama. The resulting profiles of the various indigenous groups should help determine
the availability or lack of critical socioeconomic data. Also feeding this assessment is the quantitative and
qualitative data collected duringthe Indigenous Consultationorganized bythe Indigenous Council of
CentralAmerica (CICA), inwhich indigenous professionals analyzed problems faced by the indigenous
peoples of the region concerning such issues as land use, demographics, and the social, political, and
cultural conditions that affect the sustainableuse of naturalresources.

0bjectives

The social assessment is aimed at (a) characterizing the participatingindigenous communities'
socioeconomic andcultural situation, superimposed onthe biophysicalinformation from the previous
environmental assessment, in six key biodiversity-conservation areas; (b) identifying key indicators,
particularlywith regardto indigenous landrights andthe search for solutions to decades-oldconflicts
regarding farming and landuse; (c) determining the structure o f community governments, including their
dynamics, hierarchies, and decisionmakingproceduresonthe use of natural resources; (d) examining
communal and inter-communal forms of cooperation for the conservation andmanagementof natural
resourcesinthe context of productive activities such as agriculture and forestry; and (f) evaluating previous
assistance programs byNGOs, religious organizations, government agencies, and the private sector.

Methodology

The social assessmentprocess involved(a) carrying out areview ofthe existing literature onindigenous
peoples in each individual country and the region as awhole, (b) the IndigenousConsultation, and (c) an
analysis o fthe field data.

    (a) The review ofthe literature was based on an extensive documentary review and a mappingo f
         institutional sources of information onthe region's indigenous peoples and their management of
         natural resources, protected areas, and land rights issues ineach of the countries. Participating
         institutions- selected on geographical, thematic, social, and ethnic grounds -were visited to
         collect the information they had available. This information served as the main inputfor the
         production of the theoretical and conceptual frame o f reference for the national andregional
         reports.




                                                  - 97 -

    (b) Duringthe fieldwork stage (the Indigenous Consultation) the preparation team usedrural
        participatory workshops, interviewswith key informants and institutional representatives, and
        contacts with the authorities ofthe selectedterritories to identify community leaders of both sexes
        who could betrained in data-gathering methods. The indigenous regionsand communities
        selected ineach country were classified according to the lines of action contemplated inthe
        Integrated Ecosystem Management proposal and the RegionalDevelopment Strategy for
        Indigenous Peoples. A typology was developed, discussed, and adapted by indigenous and
        peasantrepresentatives to determine the degree of institutionaland organizationalsophistication
        achieved by each o fthe potentialcommunity organizations. Four main categories were identified
        inlinewiththe integrated ecosystemmanagementproject's objectives, andwere usedto assess
        the current stateofcommunalenvironmental management.

    (c) The analytical phase involved three stages: first, a systematization o f the data; second, an analysis
        o f the data; and third, an examination and validation o fthe findings.

Results of the SocialAssessment

Indigenous peoplesin CentralAmerica

    (a) Who is indigenous? Two conceptsemerged duringthe Indigenous Consultation: one havingto do
        with condition, the other havingto do with belonging.The first hadto do withthe shared
        condition ofpoverty, discrimination, exclusion, lack of opportunities, and lack o f access to
        healthcare, education, housing, and infrastructure. The secondhadto do with the sense o f
        belonging to a family, a community, a people, with a common worldview, language, dress, habits,
        beliefs, standards for the administrationofjustice, and social and cultural institutions and
        policies, all this linked to a deeper feeling of solidarity and a sharedvision for the political
        construction of pluralistic nations.

    (b) The 43 different indigenous peoplesthat makeupcloseto 23 percent o fthe populationofthis
        narrow physiographic regionstem from two mainpre-Hispanic civilizations, as reflected intheir
        languages:the Mesoamerican (mainly Maya) to the north, andthe Chibchato the south. Their
        territories contain a richanddiverse mixof fauna, flora, climate, andculture, makingfor bio-
        logicallyandculturally diverse ecosystems, manyofthem unique, that these peopleshave preserved
        for centuries butwhich are nonethelessvulnerable andat risk, largely from external pressures.

        Guatemala. The three main ethnic groups -the Maya, Xinca, and Garifuna-are scattered
        throughout the country. However, some linguistically uniformcommunities predominate in
        certain regions that are considered their habitat or traditional territories. Municipalities are the
        basic territorial unit by which the preponderanceof speakerso f the various indigenous languages
        i s tallied, although in some municipalities the composition of the population is multi-ethnic.

        Panama. The seven indigenous peoples ofPanama-the Ngobe, Kuna, Embera, Bugle, Wounaan,
        Naso (Teribe), and Bribri-live mainly inthe western and eastern peripheries ofthe country,
        although a significant number reside inthe bigcities. The east i s home to the Kuna, who live in
        the comurcm (territories) of KunaYala andMadungandi, as well as parts ofDarienprovince
        close to the border with Colombia. The Ember6andthe Wounaan can be found inthe comarcas
        that bear their names, as well as inother communities of Darien province and the eastern extreme
        o f PanamaProvince. Meanwhile, the Ngbbe, Bugle, Naso (Teribe), and Bribri live inthe west.

        Honduras. The indigenous and black populations o f Honduras have been, to a great extent,
        displaced from their traditional territories, with the exception of a few groups like the Pech,



                                                   - 98 -

    Tawahka, and Tolupan- and even they have been forced to retreat from the expansion of
    Western-style farming. The Miskito are perhapsthe group that has suffered the least
    displacement. The northernCaribbean coast is home to the Garifuna, who also share the Bay
    Islands with blacks from the West Indies. The Eastern Caribbean i s knownas the Mosquito Coast
    becausethe largest indigenous group representedthere i s the Miskito, a people that arose during
    colonial times as a result of interbreeding between natives and blacks imported as slaves; they are
    followed in size by the Tawahka, Garifuna, and Pech. The Chorti and the Lenca live inthe west,
    the Tolupan inthe central region, and the Pech inthe easternregion, which they share with a
    peasant group that claims to descendfrom the Nahua indigenous line.

    CostaRica. The eight indigenous peoples of Costa Rica -the Cabecar, Bribri, TCrraba, Brunca,
    Huetar, Maleku, Chorotega, and Guaymi- live mainly inprotected territories legally called
    indigenous reserves, but which the country's indigenous groups, like international law, call
    indigenous territories. Indigenous people can also be found inthe major cities ofthe Central
    Valley, some ofthem Miskito from Nicaragua and Ngobe from Panama.

    El Salvador. Many individuals of indigenous descenthave been forcibly assimilated over the
    decades into the national"ladino" or mestizo culture, most notably after the government-
    organized genocide of 1932.It i s nonethelessestimated that over halfa million Salvadorans can
    trace their ancestry directly to Mesoamerica's Nahualt, Pipil, Lenca, and Cacaotera groups, which
    have managed to survive to the present day. Indigenous organizations are tryingto preserve and
    strengthen their once savagely repressedancestral cultures.

    Belize. This former Britishcolony, Central America's least populated country, is largely
    populatedby,WestIndianblacks, mestizos, andtwo major indigenous groups. The Garifuna, who
    live along the coast, are the result of interbreeding among natives and former African slaves. The
    Maya are divided into the Mopan and the Kekchi, who are scatteredaround the country, and the
    Maya Itzh, who live near the Mexican border.

    Nicaragua. The country i s divided into two major regions: the Caribbean or Atlantic coastal
    region, dominated historically by Britishcolonialism, andthe Pacific coastal region, settled by the
    Spanish. The Miskito, Rama, Garifuna, Mayagna, and Creole peoples live on the Caribbean side
    andretaintheir cultural identityand ancestral territories, which even enjoy a significant degree of
    autonomy that i s formally recognized bythe country's central government. The Pacific coast
    groups-the    Chorotega, Matagalpa, Nicarao, Subtiaba, and Nahua-live      insmall communities,
    some o fthem urban like Masaya and Le6n. Although their Mesoamerican heritage has resisted
    acculturation, their languages are threatened with extinction, causingtheir leadersto fight for
    their cultures and the recovery o ftheir ancestralterritories.

(c) The project's beneficiaries include 558 communitiesand 607 organizations. The following
    indigenous and Afro-descendant peoples participatedin the Consultation andother components
    o f the project:

    Belize -the Mopan, Q'eqchi', Maya, and Garifuna
    Guatemala-the Poqoman, Q'eqchi, Poqomchi', K'iche, Kaqchikel, and Garifuna
    El Salvador -the Nahualt, Lenca, and Cacaopera
    Honduras -the Ch'orti', Lenca, Pech, Sumo (Tawahka), Garifuna, Miskito, Tolupan, and
         Garifuna
    Nicaragua -the Miskito, Chorotega, Mayagna, Sumo, and Nahualt
    CostaRica -the Bribri, Boruca, Cabkcar, and Ngobe-Guaymi
    Panama-the Teribes, Ngobe-Bugle, Embera-Wounaan, Teribe, Bribri, the Kuna living in Darien


                                                - 99 -

Indigenous peoplesand natural resources

    (a) Worldview.The traditional indigenous worldview remains largely intact among the majority of
       Central America's indigenous peoples-this was one of the key findings o f the Indigenous
       Consultation. Intheir vision ofthe cosmos, nature andhumanitycan and must coexist; there i s no
       inherent contradiction between environmental conservation andhuman development. Harmony,
       respect, and equilibrium are the three crucial elementsthat enable unity to flourish within
       diversity. Other key concepts are "quaternity" (north, south, east, and west; the four corners ofthe
       pyramid; etc.) and duality or, rather, complementarity. This holistic world vision, which
       permeatesboth individual and community action, has allowedthe indigenous peoples of the
       region, over thousands of years, to conserve and protect the ecosystemsand biodiversity o ftheir
       lands.A good example, among the Ngobe, is the "navel tree." When a child is born its severed
       umbilical cord is taken bythe father into the forest and buried at a secret spot where the father
       later plantsa tree seedling that representsthe life of the child, andwhich the father will care for
       assiduously, allowing no one to cut or damage it in any way. Another instance i s the Kuna's
       concept o f "Kalu," which applies to the placeswhere people or animals live, more specifically
       their various habitats, both on land and at sea, but hasthe added connotation of beingsacred
       spaces inhabitedbythe spirits of plants or animals, which must not be disturbed or treated
       disrespectfully(disease or epidemics are purportedlythe result of such acts of disrespect).

    (b) Traditionalknowledge.The sumofthe knowledge generatedinthe course ofthe practical and
        intellectuallife o f indigenous peoples, that has beenpassedon from generation to generation.
       Among indigenous peoplesno separationexists betweenthe economic, cultural, andenvironmental
       dimensions. As such, the expertisethat enables indigenous peoplesto usethe forest as a source of
       food, medicine, clothing, tools, utensils, and everything else they consume or process- including
        key informationabouttheir environment -is not separate, or separable, from the awarenessthat
        suchresourcesmustbe usedwisely, without unduewaste, out of respect for all forms o f life and
       their role as interdependentpartsof an indivisiblecosmos. It i s no accident that Central America's
        most unspoiled ecosystems, thosewiththe richest biological diversity, largely coincide withthe
        areastraditionally inhabited by indigenous communities. Their traditional knowledgewould now be
        describedasthe sustainableuse and managementofbiodiversity andnatural resources. Hence the
        importance of indigenous participationinfurthering integratedecosystemmanagement.

    (c) Land use and natural resources. As noted inthe previous section, the social assessment
        component o fthe project established the strong causal correlation between indigenous land-use
        andthe conservation of keyecosystems. The IntegratedEcosystem ManagementProject, the
        Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, and other earlier initiativesto establish protectedareas, all
        intersect with the noninvasive, nondestructive landuse associatedwith the indigenouspeoples o f
        the region. Accordingly, the current project focuses on fundingconservationand sustainable use
        activities inkey ecosystemswith indigenouspeoples 'participation inthe study and setting of
        policies for the conservation of the region's biodiversity and natural resources. For indigenous
        peoples, the forest is the source o f everythingthey need and use: not only food and agriculture but
        also construction materials for their homes and transportation (canoes), householdand kitchen
        utensils, clothes and pigments, life-saving drugs, arts and craft supplies, and religious
        paraphernalia. The intensiveuse o f culturally transformed spaces such as plantations and
        vegetable gardens is balanced by the extensive use o fwild spaces for hunting, fishing, and
        gathering fruit, nuts, herbs, and roots for nutritional or medicinal purposes.




                                                   - 100-

Project priority areas

As a result ofthe social assessmentandthe analysis ofthe biological diversity ofthe various potential
sites for the project, which yielded sociocultural and biophysical indicators, six priority project areas were
selected(sometimes referred to as "ecoregions" for convenience). Factors for preliminary consideration
were the presenceand participation of indigenous peoples and peasantgroups, the importance o f specific
ecosystems(degree of endemism, proximity to the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor), and riskfactors
such as the lack o f an effective status as protected areas, or negative changes or impacts inthe social and
cultural use of natural resources.

To define the priority areas for the Central America Indigenous Integrated Ecosystem Management
Project, the first step was to define the main selection criteria. Inconsultations with the preparatory
coordinationteam, consensuswas reachedon the needfor two types of selection criteria: those that were
primafacie indispensable, andothers that were to guide priority setting. The first set of criteria comprised
the following: (a) the chosensites should be indigenous regions, reserves, or communities; and (b) the
sitesthat are the focus of activity bythe Indigenous and PeasantCommunity Agroforestry Coordination
Committee (ACICAFOC) or the Central American Indigenous Council (CICA) should definitely be
included. The second set of criteria comprised the following: (a) locationwithin a protected area; (b)
locationwithin a protected area's buffer zone; (c) significant risk o f environmental degradation
(deforestation, for instance); (d) location within the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor as proposed by the
Central American Commission for Environmentand Development(CCAD); (e) a highdegree of
endemism; and (f) highbiological diversity.

                                  Table 1. Profile of Priority Proiect Areas
'roject                                        Priority (Pr)
v9ority                        Indigenous      Deforestatwn Danger (DD)
lrea            Countries       peoples        Biologicalimportance (Bg        Major environmentalproblem
daya          Belize         Mopan             Pr: 2.93 (highsignificance Oil exploration.
              Guatemala      Maya                  at the regionalscale)  Constructionofroads for national
iurface:                     Mam               DD:0.430 (medium)             security
;3,667                       K'iche            BI: 0.518(importantat the  Expansionof cattle-ranching
,m2                          Kaqchikel             regionalscale)
                             Ixil                                         The Mayaarea, the project'ssecond
                             Itza                                         largest priorityarea, is predominantly
                             Garifuna                                     inhabitedby indigenous groups and

                             Achi                                         stands out for its ethnic diversity.It

                             Xinca                                        includes agricultural, cattle farming, anc

                             Uspanteko                                    ecotourism areas. InBelize, farming on
                                                                          steep slopes is causingenvironmental
                             Tz'utujil                                    degradation, threateningthe country's
                             Tektiteko                                    richbiologicaldiversity.
                             Sakapulteko
                             Q'eqchi'
                             Poqomchi'
                             Posoman
                                               Pr: 2.784 (highsignificancc Overgrazing
                                                   at the regionalscale)   Forestfires andslash-and-burnpractice!
                                               DD:0.428 (medium)          Encroachmentdue to expansion ofthe
                                               BI:0.517 (importantat the      agriculturalfrontier andcattlefarmini
                                                   regionalscale)
                                                                           The unsustainablepracticesjust
                                                                           mentioned, combinedwith the dry
                                                                           climate, pose asignificantthreat.




                                                    - 101-

Talamanca     Panama         Cabecar         Pr: 2.758 (high significance Over-extraction oftimber
Bocas         CostaRica      Naso-Teribe         at the regional scale)   Slash-and-burnpractices and forest fires
                             Terraba         DD: 0.423 (medium)          Encroachmentdue to expansionofthe
Surface:                     Ngbbe-Bugle     BI: 0.5 15 (important at the   akTiculQra1 frontier
10,347                       Bribri              regional scale)
kin2                         Boruca                                       The TalamancaBocas, an area with a
                                                                          significant numberof endemic animal
                                                                          species, is threatenedbythe poverty
                                                                          besetting indigenous communities,
                                                                          which leads to over-extraction oftimber
                                                                          andunsustainablefarmingpractices
                                                                          such as cultivation on steep slopes.
Sumo-         Honduras       Sumo            Pr: 2.536 (important at the Forestfires and slash-and-burn practices
Miskitia      Nicaragua      Miskito             regional scale)          Industrial over-extraction o ftimber
                             Garifuna        DD: 0.378 (relatively        Excessivereliance on firewood as fuel
Surface:                     Rama                stable)
102,42 1                     Pech            BI: 0.494 (relevant at the   The Sumo-Miskito, the largest ofthe
km2                                              regional scale)          project areas, containsthe greatest
                                                                          concentrationof Caribbeanpine in
                                                                          CentralAmerica. Isolation andpoverty
                                                                          amongindigenouscommunities feedsthe
                                                                          unsustainableover-extractiono ftimber.
Darien-       Panama         Embera-         Pr: 2.96 (very high          Mining
Kuna                         Wounaan             significance at the      Over-extraction oftimber
                             Kuna de             regional level)          Patchwork expansionofthe agricultural
Surface:                     Madungandi      DD:0.464 (very                 frontier
8,668 km2                    Kuna de             vulnerable)
                             Wargandi        BI: 0.534 (important at the  A region with many species endemic to
                             Kuna Yala           regional scale)          Central and SouthAmerica. Poverty has
                                                                          resulted inover-hunting.
Humid         Honduras       Garifuna        Pr: 3.099 (very high         Forestfires and slash-and-burnpracticer
Atlantic                     1sleAo              significance at the      Industrial over-extraction o ftimber
                             Tolupan             regional level)
Surface:                                     DD:0.493 (very               The indigenouspopulationis under
6,869 km2                                        vulnerable)              severe stress from encroachmentdue to
                                             BI: 0.584 (very important    expansionofthe agricultural frontier.
                                                 at the regional scale)

Social organization

1.Social organization

Forms o f social andpolitical organization vary significantly amongthe various indigenous groups. The
different communal models inexistence today stem from processes o f change that have overturned the
original customs o f indigenous peoples and their styles of leadership -the ways inwhich power and
authority are exercised. At present, indigenous societies with complex social structures -whose
community organizations, such as autonomous governing councils, have proven one o fthe main bulwarks
of their cultures -coexist with far looser systems based on extended families or clans spread widely over
traditional settlement areas that are governed by parentage hierarchies. Regardless o fthese differences,
not to mention the manifold stresses on indigenous culture, it is collective decisionmaking, described by
the IntegratedEcosystem Management Project as "organizational cultural continuity," that remainsthe
norm, generally inthe form o f "community assemblies" that decide on the proper use and management of
their social, cultural, and natural environment.




                                                  - 102 -

2. Current types of community organizations

Duringthe interviews with leadersof indigenous organizations, some debateensuedas to which
organizations could be described as regional, national, or local. This i s relevant to the Integrated
Ecosystem Management Project, which i s aimed at direct work with communities andtheir organizations.
To understand these organizations, they mustbe classified on the basis o ftheir nature and scope:

        Local-level or grassroots organizations: Theytypically comprise all members of a community,
        who are themselves in charge o f implementingand executing any project chosen.
     0  Subnational organizations: Groups acting in one or more regions of a country, they are usually
        aggregates o f grassrootsorganizations.
     0  Nationul organizations: Country-wide confederations of grassroots or subnational organizations,
        such as National Indigenous and Peasant Platforms working on issues ofnational significance such
        as land-use management legislation.
     0  Regional organizations: Their sphere of action covers two or more countries -in practice, at least
        three -in a systematic and regular fashion. Examples include CICA, ACICAFOC, and ONECA.

The mostrelevant indicators concerning these organizations are their (a) constituency, (b) mission and
objectives, (c) functional structure, (d) proposals and activities, (e) projects completed, and (f) coverage
o fthe given population.

This analysis ledto the conclusionthat Integrated Ecosystem Management Project activities should be
entrusted to community-level organizations, with participation by other bodies only requiredfor
coordination purposes.

3. Typology

As part o fthe IndigenousConsultationcarriedout by CTCA and ACICAFOC, a methodological tool was
devisedto facilitate the typological assessment of potential beneficiary organizations. Itprovides precise
illformation on the characteristics ofthe organizations andtheir strengths and weaknesses inthe
institutional, economic, and sociocultural spheres. It also helped to monitor and assessthe actual
implementationofthe project.

The participation of indigenous communitiesand organizations was based on the following
categorization.

                                       Table 2. Community Typology




                                                  - 103 -

 :ategory         Parameter                                    Characteristies
                                       .I__

 II Institutional                Enjoys an organized structure but lacks strategic planning
                Economic         Limitedfinancial resourcesand productive plan still inthe design stages
                Sociocultural    Alignment of human, cultural, and community resources generally well
                                 definedbut not yet operational
                Natural          Well-defined accessto naturalresourcesbut lack of a socio-productive plan
                                 for their management
 III Institutional               Enjoys an organized structure and engages inembryonic strategic planning
                Economic         Financial resources available and socio-productive plan inoperation
                Sociocultural    Alignment of human, cultural, and community resources generally well
                                 definedand inthe process of implementation
                Natural          Well-defined accessto natural resourcesand socio-productive plan for their
                                 managementinthe processo f implementation
 IV             Institutional    Enjoys an organized structure and strategic planning is inoperation
                Economic         Financial resources available and effective, efficient socio-productive plan
                                 inoperation
                Sociocultural    Alignment of human, cultural, and community resourceswell defined and
                                 implemented
                                                                                                ~~~

                                 Well-defined accessto natural resources and successful socio-productive
                                 plan fully operational and potentially replicable

4. Criteriafor selectingasparticipantsthe organizationsidentlJiedin the course of the Indigenous
Consultation

The project focused on the participation o f communities andtheir local organizations withinthe selected
priority areas that met the followingcriteria:

       Traditional chain-of-authority and community-assembly structure still inplace.
       Landusepatterns still adheringto traditionalcommunity-ownership patterns.
       Customary law still ineffect.

    0  The consent ofthe organization's members.
    0  Access to participation by various peoples in multi-ethnic environments.
       Cultural significance.
    0  Application o ftraditional knowledge inthe use o f naturalresources.

To classify community organizations as candidatesfor participation inthe various subcomponents o fthe
project over its five year implementationperiod, as well as to determine whether these organizations were
ready for "graduation" to higher classification, the followingtypology and categorization was developed.


    0  Typology I: level
                     Lowest
    0  Typology 11:Intermediate level 1
       Typology 111:Intermediate level 2
    0  Typology IV: Highest level of the scale




                                                  - 104-

Institutionalarrangements

Based on the findings of the social assessment andthe dialogue among regional organizations such as
CICA andACICAFOC, an organizational structure is hereby proposed for implementingand executing
the IntegratedEcosystem Management Project.

The WAYIB.Inthe course ofthe inter-institutional meetings for designing the project, the indigenous
representatives agreedon the establishment o f a permanent council-or "Wayib" inMayan-that would
provide strategic guidelines and overseethe execution o fthe project inorder to ensure its objectives are
met. The Wayib i s made up of two representatives each from CICA and ACICAFOC. The Wayib and
CCAD will delegate the implementationand execution of the project, by means o f subsidiary agreements,
to a project coordination unit under ACICAFOC.

TheProject Coordination Unit. Itwill consist of a project coordinator, administrative assistant,
procurement officer, accountant, andtwo technicians. The PCUwill coordinate implementation of the
project and serve as atechnical and administrative conduit linkingthe "Wayib," CCAD, beneficiary
organizations, and the Liaison Organizations (see below). Itwill be responsible for guaranteeing the
effective operation ofthe project andthe correct administration of its financial resources. Inproject areas
not covered by an LO, ACICAFOC will also directly execute subprojects or sign agreementswith
communities to execute subprojects themselves.

Liaison Organizations.These organizations will serve as linksfor the implementationo fthe project at the
priority area level. Their responsibilities will include the administrative and financial oversight of the
subprojects withintheir field of intervention. Liaison organizations will sign an agreement with the PCU
defining their responsibilities and activities.

Landtenure

Different kindso f indigenous landtenure coexist in Central America, from collective ownership to
privateproperty. Inthe course of the social assessment and legal analysis o fthis project, five types o f land
tenure inCentral America were found to be relevant to the issue of protectingbiodiversity. They all enjoy
some kindo f community management and are recognized officially bythe government as being inthe
hands of individuals or corporations with a legalrightto own property. Most of them are characterized by
collective decisionmakingby community assembliesand the communal use of natural resources.
Members of such communities describe themselves as stewards oftheir ancestral territories, a link
between past and future generations, and responsibilities for naturalresource management are assignedby
community councils. Inthe pages that follow, terms such as TerritorialKommunity Property, Biosphere
Reserves, Tribal Property, and Tenancy Agreements are used ina generic sense to refer to all indigenous
land-tenure variations and topologies, such as the following:

        Territorial or communityproperty, also knownas indigenous territories, refers to societies with a
        long and uninterruptedhistory of communal organization, cultural preservation, and attachment to
        traditional lands (e.g., the autonomous territories ofNicaragua, or Costa Rica's protected
        indigenous reservesor territories).


     0  Comarcas,communities with collective landtenancy arrangements insemi-autonomous
        subnational areas (e.g. Panama's territories inhabitedby the Kuna, Embera, and Wounaan).

        Tenancy arrangements involvingcooperatives,usually representing communities or groups of
        communities. Such arrangementshave been successfully negotiatedwith national governments by




                                                   - 105 -

        organizations such as ACOFOP inthe Petenregion of Guatemala, or the Morocon Miskito
        Community Organization inHonduras.


    0   Biosphereresewes, such as the traditional territory of the Tawakha in Honduras, presupposethe
        sparing and sustainable use of the region's rich environmental and biological capital.


    0   Tribalproperty refers to settlementslargelypopulated by descendantso f ancient local cultures,
        some o f whom managedto have their lands titled inreturn for fealty to the Spanish crown, as in
        the case o fthe Tolupitn.

Forms of landtenure vary from country to country. The same i s true o fthe problems faced bythe various
indigenous groups andthe extent to which they find themselves inconflict with the Western-style nation
statethey happen to reside in. Fortunately, community organizations and national federations have
managedto negotiate successfully with national governments to advance the cause o f their recovery or
greater oversight o ftheir ancestral lands.

Indigenouswomen

Duringthe compilation ofthe data for the IntegratedEcosystem Management Project, itwas found that
there i s a small group of indigenous women who have managedto participate in decisionmakingat the
leadership level and have produced significant achievements.Nonetheless, the situation o f indigenous
women inthe region continues to be plagued by inequality, due to their marginalizationandpoverty,
which is aggravated when it comes to women heads o fhouseholds.

The roles played by indigenous women inCentral America include that o f farm workers and
homemakers. They engage in community activities and are entrusted with the transmission of their
language, culture, and customs to the children, which i s crucial for the social reproduction of the cultures
of indigenous peoples.

Women in indigenous societies live in a situation of disadvantagewith regard to men. Inall indigenous
societies women are almost exclusively entrusted with domestic work, withthe rare exception of some
younger couples who have adopted other customs. Participation by indigenous women insocial activities
is generally limited to those carried out withintheir community itself, and they rarely participate in social
activities, organizations, or seminars outside the community. Ingeneral, indigenous societies are
patriarchal, with women ina position of submission.

Migration

Indigenous migrationhas many disturbing facets: migration within farming regions, indenturedlabor in
temporary camps, inhumane treatment incoffee plantations and other farms, discrimination and racism in
metropolitan and urban areas, multipleabuses and maltreatment, migratory difficulties at national
borders, displacement due to political and religious conflicts, child labor in unacceptable conditions, and
the many problemsfaced by migrant women are only some o f the problems involvingmigration, a
phenomenon that is growing ever larger. International indigenous migration is a key issue that must not
be left unattended.

CentralAmericans ofAfricandescent

Finally, while Central Americans of African descent cannot be classifiedas indigenous, and have their
own world vision and legal and political status, they have suffered conditions similar to those of
indigenous peoples, sharing a longhistory of discrimination and struggle for their human and civil rights.



                                                 - 106 -

The structure ofthe populationof African descent inCentralAmerica is the result of a geographical
admixture of tribes and other communities with their roots inAfrica. Their identities and cultures were
largely lost duringthe years of slavery and acculturation. Most ofthese groups tend to live and interact
among themselves, maintainingtheir musicaltraditions and other cultural expressions, and sharing
religious beliefs and a sense of common identity. A regional organization of recent foundation, the Black
Organization of Central America (ONECA), is currently an active member organization of ACICAFOC.
Afro-Central Americans are also common ineachofthe six chosenproject priority areas, and some o f
them, for instance inHonduras, practice communal landtenure, while others enjoy farming rights.




                                                - 107-

                     AdditionalAnnex 12: EnvironmentalAssessment

CENTRAL AMERICA: Integrated Ecosystem Management in Indigenous Communities


Overview

ThisCategory Bproject is intendedto beentirely positivefrom anenvironmental standpoint,
particularlyby promotingthe conservation of habitat for globally and regionally significant biodiversity
on selectedindigenous andother community andpeasantlands. Extensivecommunity consultations and
review o f environmental data andresearchwere conducted duringpreparation ofthe projectto identify
environmental priorities, risks, andopportunities. A detailed Environmental Management Framework
was createdto screen, evaluate, andmitigaterisks inthe subprojectsto be financed bythe project. This
Framework i s summarized below, and included inits entirety inthe Project Operational Manual.

The projectwould provide environmentalbenefits through community-level landuseplanningand
training for the establishmentofconservation areas; investments inconservation areas or in
complementary sustainableuses of biodiversity; localcapacity buildingto enable communities to
administer conservation activities andmanagefunds; development of culturally appropriate and
environmentallysustainableproducts, markets, and services; biodiversity monitoring andevaluation;
andprojectmanagement.Ingeneralthese activities are environmentally friendly, andno significant
negative environmental impacts are foreseen. Measuresto prevent, mitigate, and/or compensatefor any
negative impacts are easy to identify and implement, andthe EMF defines indetailthe procedures,
instruments, and responsibilities for ensuring adequate environmental review and management.

Project preparation included analysis of information, maps, and data available from previous
assessments conducted for the preparation of national protected areas projects inCentral America.
Secondary statistical and biological information was collected and documented in a GIS information
system to complement data collectedinthe site identification study. This informationwas analyzed in
conjunction with data generatedthrough the social assessment to produce a set o f socioeconomic
information about potential project sites for project implementation.

Project Location. All project investments would take place within the countries o f Belize, Guatemala,
El Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras, CostaRica, and Panamainsix priorityareas onthe community-
owned lands of indigenous and other communities (including peasant) who voluntarily choose to
participate. All ofthe potentially eligible communitiesare situated inzones that qualify as high-
priority areas for biodiversity conservation, based on an analysis and a predictive modeling exercise
usingdata from all existing biodiversity studies, includingthose bythe CCAD, IADB, and World
Bank. For participation in capacity-building and land use planning activities, communities within
these zones would be selectedaccording to the biological, social, and organizational typology. In
addition, the Block B modeling study has provided improved data on biodiversity conservation
priority subregions (six priority areas was identified) sites, and the sources ofthreat, thus enabling
further refinement o fthe biological criteria for highpriority biodiversity areas of sufficient size
duringthe periodofproject implementation.

Community ConservationAreas. The project would support the establishment and management o f
Community Conservation Areas (CCAs), a name used here to refer to the portions o f indigenous and
community lands that their owners collectively designate for long-term conservation. Some CCAs
already exist withinthe project area (such as inthe Peten, the Talamanca Corridor byBribriand
 Cabecar, Moskitia inNicaraguaand Honduras, etc.). CCAs share many of the basic characteristics of
typical, government-supported protected areas on public lands, including the key objective of long-



                                              - 108 -

term conservation ofnatural ecosystemsand their biodiversity. However, CCAs differ inbeing
situated onprivate, communally owned (not public) lands, and their owners and managers are
organized communities (not government agencies).

Underthe project, eligible CCAs would encompassareas of intact or recoveringnaturalvegetation. In
some cases, CCAs mightinclude zones of biodiversity-friendly forestry or agroforestry systems
adjacent to core areas o f natural vegetation. CCAs would encompass areas of strict protection as well
as areas that allow low-impact multiple uses. Permitted uses would be determined by the communities
and ejidos intheir landuse plans. Project Liaison Organizations would take into account the degree
and adequacy o f proposed protectionand management in selecting CCA proposals for project funding
and the Project CoordinatingUnit establishedby ACICAFOC would have ultimate responsibility for
selecting subprojects for financing. CCAs would range insize from several hundredto tens o f
thousands o f hectares; selection criteria would favor proposals from communities with larger CCA
sites, communities with greatest economic need, and communities inareas of significant threat. The
largest conservation areas supported under the project are likely to be clusters o f several contiguous
CCAs inneighboring, collaborating communities.

CCAs would be recorded inthe by-laws (estatutos comunales), resolutions (uctas) or other legally
bindingdocuments of communitiesto helpensuretheir long-term legal status. The project
(components 3) would assist participating communities inthe codification of their CCAs within by-
laws and other legal documents. It would also promote the recognition of CCAs as legitimate
protected areas by government agencies.

Sustainable Use Investments. The project would support various types oftechnical assistance, studies,
planning, training, capacity building,project management, and monitoring and evaluation. Only
Component 3, to develop environmentally sustainable products, markets, and services, would support
any (small) civilworks or equipment for use within natural habitat areas. Other activities would
support investments to improvethe on-the-ground protection andmanagement o f CCAs, such as
physical demarcation, fire control, and equipment relatedto protection and administration functions.
Itwould also finance complementary investments insustainableusesof biodiversity, thereby
strengthening the incentives to establish and maintainCCAs and providing environmentally friendly
alternatives for production and income generation.

Component 3, would provide small grants (maximum US$30,000) to eligible communities insupport of
sustainableuse investments such as gathering of nontimber forest products (mushrooms, medicinal
plants, and others), wildlife management,and ecotourism, along with environmentally friendly
agricultural and agroforestry systemsoutside the core protected zones of CCAs. Most o fthese activities
are inherently benignfrom an environmental standpoint. Riskswould be avoided or minimizedthrough
careful review ofproposals bythe Project Coordination Unit,usingcriteria and procedures detailed in
the project's EnvironmentalManagement Framework. The sustainableuse investments to be supported
under Component 3, are expectedto bemore environmentally friendly thanthe other types of activities
that communities mighthave pursued inthe same areas without project assistance.

Environmental Management Framework

The Environmental Management Framework (EMF) developed for the proposed project i s
                                                                                                  I

summarized below, and will be included in its entirety as part ofthe operational manual. This
Framework serves as an operational instrument to ensure appropriate environmental and social
management duringproject implementationand execution of project activities. Ittakes into account
the recommendations and comments ofthe World Bank's Quality Assurance Team (QAT) and the
IDB's CommitteeonEnvironmentaland Social Impact (CESI). The key issues identified inthe EMF



                                               - 109-

arethe environmental assessmentprocedures for the small-scale subprojects inComponent 3
(development of culturally appropriate productive activities and services for environmental
sustainability) andthe institutional capacity of the executing agency, PCU, and liaison organizations
for environmental management.

The Framework addressesthese issues by(a) defining criteria for categorizingproposed subprojects
basedon screening of the activities andareas inwhich they will take place, (b) specifyingthe studies
or instruments requiredfor each subproject to ensure environmentalsustainabilityand compliance
with IBRDand IDBsafeguardpolicies, and(c) setting out procedures and processesfor approving
productive subprojects, identifying who is responsible for safeguard compliance, and proposing
institutional strengthening measures neededto ensure adequate environmentalmanagement during
project implementation.

The PCUcoordinator as well as the technical officers inboththe PCU and the Liaison Organizations
will receivetrainingto ensurethat they are well versed inthe requirements and application of the
EMF.Community members responsible for identifying andproposingsubprojects mustalso receive
training, ifrequired, andbe familiar with the EMF so that, with outside technical assistanceif
necessary, they can identify and classify potential socio-environmental impacts and elaborate a
project profile to accompany the proposal. Responsible parties inthe beneficiary communities or
organizations, leaderso f community work projects, and any contractors working on small works
subprojects will also be requiredto understand key aspectsof the EMFrelated to implementation,
follow-up, and monitoring of subprojects, such as chance find procedures for cultural property.

Environmental Assessment of Subprojects

Four steps are defined inthe environmental assessment process: (1) subproject classification, (2)
definition of requirements for environmental management studies, (3) compliance with environmental
authorities, and (4) follow-up and monitoring.

Step 1. Suburoiect Classification

Subprojects must be classified to determine the appropriate level of environmental analysis required.
The classification is basedon the objectives of the project, the types of activities to be carried out, and
the sensitivity ofthe natural and cultural environment. There are three main categories of subproject
goals and four types o f activities. These are combined ina matrix to determine potential
environmentalrisk or impact byproject type, with Type 1beingthe highest and Type 4 the lowest:



                                         Goalof Submoiect



   -----Ecotourism                                - Ecologicalagriculture   - Landuse planning
        Ethno-tourism                             - Ecologicalagribusiness  - Demarcation
        Water management                          - Raisinglivestock        - Others
        Conservationprograms                      - Others
        Others




                                              - 110-

                                                 Type of Activity

                (4
  Liiierrr ~                  ~             ~             ~               ~         ~                s           ~    ~

        New constructionor                                                        - Minor ecotourism
expansionofrural roads                                                              constructions
- New constructionor                 of rural roads         - Constructionof      - Productivecommunity
  expansionof ecologicalpaths     -  Rehabilitation           ecotourism lodges     projectsthat do not require
- Linear infrastructureworks                                                        major infrastructureworks
  for water conduits                 ofecologicalpaths        constructionworks   - Environmentalprojects, such
- Flood control works             - Rehabilitation            for ecotourism        as reforestation
- Irrigation and/or drainage                                                      - Carbon sequestration
  works                              oflinear conduit                             - Certified wood products
- Minihydro-electricplants           works                                        - Water infiltration
- Constructionofnew rural                                                         - Bird-friendly crops
  electricity transmission lines     works                    communityprojects   - Conservationagriculture
                                  - Rehabilitation            that requireearth   - Safeguardof the frontier
                                     and/ormaintenance        movements             between agricultureand
                                     of irrigation and       - Erosioncontrol       forestry
                                     drainageworks                                - Landscapemaintenance
                                  - Rehabilitationof                              - Maintenanceof habitatfor
                                     rural electricity                              migratory birds
                                     transmissionlines                            - Maintenanceofhabitat for
                                                                                    fauna
                                                                                  - Productionof certified wood


                                 Matrix 1. Subproject Classification by Type



  I                a             I          Type 1          I         Type 2       I          Type 2           I
                   b                        Type 2                    Type 2                  Type 3

                   c                        Type 2                    Type 3                  Type 4
                   d                        Type 3                    Type 4                  Type 4



    After determiningthe subproject classification, the sensitivity of the environment where the
    subproject will be implementedi s evaluated usinga detailed checklist from the EMF.The checklist
    considers factors such as the degree of current humanintervention, level of biodiversity and
    endemism, degree of threat and accessibility, presenceof archeological or cultural sites, steepness o f
    slopes and vulnerability to erosion, and other factors. Based on this analysis, the sensitivity ofthe
    environment is classified as high, moderate, or low.

    By crossing this sensitivityratingwiththe subproject from Matrix 1, the level ofsocio-environmental
    risk for that specific subproject is determined inMatrix2. The risklevel range from 1to 4:

    Level 1 Highrisk, with effects that may be irreversible.
               -
    Level 2    - Highto   moderate risk, with effects that can be managed and mitigated easily.


                                                      - 111 -

Level 3 - Moderate to low risk, with small-scale works inareas with low environmental sensitivity,
and little or no danger to the natural environment.
Level4    - No environmental  risks.

                         Matrix 2. Level of Socio-Economic Riskbased on
                        Type of Subproject and Sensitivity of Environment




Step 2. Definitionof Requirements for EnvironmentalManagement Studies

The level o f socio-economic risk identified inMatrix 2 will determine the management instruments or
studies neededto ensurethe environmental sustainability of the subprojects and compliance with
IBRDandIDBenvironmentalandsocial policies. The EMF and Operational Manual include
provisions for communities to request project resources for the pre-investments studies that mightbe
requiredfor environmentalassessment. Level 1 (highrisk) subprojects will not be financed under the
integrated ecosystem management project. Sample terms of reference for the environmental experts
carrying out the studies for Level2 andLevel 2 subprojects are contained inthe f i l l EMFreport and
project operational manual.

Level 1 - Ineligible for project financing
Level2 - Rapid Environmental Assessment (REA) with an environmental management plan and a
            monitoring plan (does not require an environmental impact assessment)
Level 3 - EnvironmentalReport (ER) that proposesinitiatives or measureto prevent, mitigate, and/or
            compensatepotential negative impacts.
Level 4 - No specific studies required, but project should follow any environmental regulationsand
            specifications developed for thistype o f project.

Instruments supportingenvironmentalassessment are identified inthe EMF, and include the
preliminary checklist, sources o f secondary information for environmental assessment, and World
Bank and TDB safeguard policies. The project triggers the World Bank policies on Environmental
Assessment (4.01), Natural Habitats(4.04), Forests (4.36), Indigenous Peoples (4.20), and Cultural
Property (4.1 1). The project will comply with all requirements for environmental assessment, mainly
through the process described above. However, requirements under 4.01 are adapted to the level of
environmentalrisk, which will be low inthis project. Becausethe project was designed to be
beneficial for naturalhabitats and forests, no significant problems are expected incomplying with
4.04 and 4.36. Since the project focuses on indigenous communities, the Project Appraisal Document
itself is considered an Indigenous Peoples DevelopmentPlan for the purposes o f 4.20.

Inthe case ofcultural property, the project is uniquely suitedto comply with 4.11since an explicit
goal of the project is to help preserve certain traditional customs and practices o f indigenouspeoples
and the executing agency is an indigenous organizationthat represents and is in close contact with the
indigenous peoples and communities whose cultural heritage might be directly affected. To the extent



                                              - 112-

that subprojects may occur in archeological or cultural sites, or involve ethnotourism initiatives, it is
the indigenous communities themselvesthat are proposingand implementing the subprojects, which
helps ensure sensitivity to cultural artifacts and sites. For all cases where small works are involved,
communities and contractors will be informed of chance find procedures contained inthe operational
manual that describe how to proceed inthe event of accidental archeological discoveries inorder to
research, rescue, andmitigate impacts on the artifacts or sites inquestion.


                 Procedures for Socio-Environmental Assessment of Subprojects


                    Project
                      cvcle            Activity      Instrument        Results




                         of a    +      community  +      Land     +prioritizedby-
                     subproject           process        Planning       ecoregion
                                                  / L


                                                         Table 1
                                                         Table 2




                                      studies or




                                  Ggree on the'                   Environmental
                   Environmental     studies and                     permits      required
                                     instruments

                Li    FoIIow-u~
                         and                            `l:
                      monitoring




                                                 - 113 -

Step 3. Compliance with EnvironmentalAuthority

Each o f the subprojects must have any authorization or permission required by the corresponding
EnvironmentalAuthority in its area. Inthis respect, the instruments to be used duringthe execution of
the Project must be agreed on with these institutions in order to ensure coordination, and also
compliance with environmental legislation. The regional Liaison Organizations will be responsible
for facilitating and verifying such compliance. Central American environmental legislation must be
analyzed to establish minimum environmental standards for the project; these standards must be
uniform for all the project priority areas and comply with the legislation o f each country. The
presence of a CCAD representative on the Project Council also will help ensure that the concerns of
the Central American environment ministries are integrated into the project.

Step 4. Follow-up and Monitoring

The Liaison Organization will also be responsible for monitoring the subprojects to ensure
implementation o f any environmental management plans and technical specifications of subprojects
intheir respective project areas.

InstitutionalAspects

General institutional arrangementsand responsibilitiesfor the project are described inAnnex 13 and
inthe ProjectOperational Manual. Forthe specific purposeofenvironmentalmanagement, the EMF
identifies roles and responsibilities at five stages o fthe subproject cycle: (a) identification, (b)
formulation, (c) prior analysis and assessment, (d) selection and approval, (e) execution, and (f)
operation, maintenance, and ex-post facto evaluation. These stages are summarized below and
explained in more detail inthe EMF.

(a) Identification. Communities identify needs, problems, and alternative solutions, and prepare a pre-
investment study. At this stage potential environmental risks are flagged for the different alternatives.

(b) Formulation of subproiects. Communitiesprepare subproject profiles withthe help of local
experts duringparticipatory workshops. The profiles assess financial, technical, environmental, and
social implications, including socio-environmental risk assessment usingthe Preliminary
EnvironmentalAssessment Form from Annex 4 o fthe EMFand drafting o f TO& for any required
environmental assessment studies. The LOs are responsible for classifying the subprojects and
ensuringthat proposals includethe requiredinstruments.

(c) Prior analysis and assessment. The LOs, incoordination with the applicant communities, assess
the pre-investment study presented and verify the indicators and/or criteria for the classification o f
subprojects. Requestsfor fundingo f pre-investment environmental assessment are considered, and
the results of any such studies are reviewed by the PCU and LOs, including a review o fthe
institutionalcapacity o f the beneficiary organization or community and identification of any technical
assistancerequired.

(d) Selection andapproval. The LOs, with support from external environmentalexperts, review and
screen the proposals andthe PCU reviewsand gives final approval for subproject financing. These
reviews should consider social and environmental aspectsthat could affect subproject sustainability,
and ensure the proposalhas the appropriate environmentalassessment instrument for Level 2 and
Level 3 subprojects as well as the project resources requiredfor the beneficiaries to execute any
mitigation, prevention, or compensation measures identified.




                                               - 114-

                            InstitutionalResponsibilitiesfor Environmental
                                 Managementinthe Subproject Cycle


                   Project
                    cycle             Activity         Instrument                   Responsibility
                     B
                Identifieation                                Preliminary
                                                            Environmental         * Beneficiary community
                                                                                  * Technicalassistance
                  subproject                               Assessment Field
                                                              Checklist


                                                       [TI
                Formulation          Elaborationof      Matrix: socio-environ-      Beneficiary community
                                     project profile     mental classification.   .Technical assisance
                  proposal                              Secondary information:
                                                          ma s re rts etc..


                                     Pre-investment

                Prior analysis                                                    -LiaisonOrganization
                                  q-z%-]L                                         *Support:Enviromental
                  assessment                                a REA or an ER          Expert


                                      Investment


                Selectionand           Reviewof           Support of expert to    acoordiation Unit
                 approvalof                                                       *Support:Environment1
                 the proposal                              environmental and        Expert
                                      instruments            socialviabilit



             /                    '                  \
                                    Follow-upand             Environmental
                Executionof       monitoringof direct                             *Beneficiary Organization
                 subprojects          impactsof           (level 2 & 3 projects)   *LiaisonOrganization
                                   constructionworks



                Operationand         FOIIOW-UPand                                  *Beneficiary Organization

                maintenance of       monitoringof           MonitoringPlan         .Coordination Unit
                the subprojets                            (level 2 & 3 projects)   .Liaison Organization
                                     accumulative




(e) Execution. Beneficiary communities are responsible for executingthe subprojects under
agreements signed withthe LOs (or ACICAFOC in areas without an LO), with the assistance of
environmentalconsultants ifjustified to monitor compliance with any mitigationmeasures. The
communities must send periodic reports on monitoring and implementation o f environmental
measuresto the PCUvia the LOs, as well as a final report on socio-environmentalmanagement after
project completion. For communities without sufficient capacity for financial management o f project
execution, the LOs or ACICAFOC will execute the subprojects.




                                                   - 115 -

( f ) Operation. maintenance. and ex-post facto evaluation. The beneficiaries will operate and maintain
any works financed bythe project, while the PCU, throughthe LOs, may maintain a presenceduring
this phaseto provide technical assistance andensureadequatefunctioning. Wherejustified, follow-up
and monitoring o f some environmental parametersmust continue to measurethe direct or indirect
impacts generated bythe execution of construction works over time.




                                              - 116 -

                          Additional Annex 13: InstitutionalArrangements
   CENTRALAMERICA: Integrated EcosystemManagementin IndigenousCommunities

GEF ImplementingAgencies. There has beenstrong coordinationand collaboration between the World
Bank and IDBduringpreparation, which will continue duringimplementation. The TDB will be
responsible for Components 1 and 2, while the World Bank will be responsible Components 3 and 4 of
the project. Use ofproject funds for eachcomponent will be carriedout inaccordance withthe norms and
procedures o fthe agency responsible for that component.

ExecutingAgency. ACICAFOC will be the project executing agency. Project implementation will be
carried out by ACTCAFOC through a Project CoordinationUnit(PCU). The PCUwill be responsible for
implementingthe project inthe field, andwill work inclose collaborationwith the national and local
indigenous communities through the Liaison Organizations (LOs) inthe project areas established by
ACICAFOC inconsultation with the Central America Indigenous Council (CICA). ACICAFOC's
financial management capacity has been evaluated and will be strengthenedduringproject preparation
andimplementation.The staff ofthe PCUwill include a pro-jectcoordinator, procurementofficer,
accountant, administrativeassistant, and two technical officers.

Proiect Council (Consejo Directivo del Provecto). The Project Council i s composed o f two
representatives from ACICAFOC, two from CICA, and one from CCAD (the representatives from
ACICAFOC and CICA together are also known as the Wayib,an indigenous advisory or coordination
council.). The Project Council will serve as a boardo f directors, oversee overall project implementation,
and make decisions over strategic choices. It will have ordinary meetings twice a year to review and
approve working plans and budgets, review results and impacts, and give advice onthese issues to the
executing agency. The council may also have extraordinary meetings to discuss matters o f importance for
the project. The council is an important forum to ensurereal influence and feedback bythe local
communities and the member organizations of ACICAFOC and CICA.

Liaison Organizations (Organizaciones de Enlace): Six Liaison Organizations (LOs), each one associated
with one or two ofthe priority project areas, were identifiedthrough an institutional analysis that took
place duringproject preparation. The LOs will be responsible for facilitating and promoting the project at
the community level intheir respective project areas. The LOs may either execute subprojects directly or
sign agreementswith the communities for them to implement subprojects themselves. Each LO will
follow the operational manual's guidelines for criteria and procedures for promotingthe project, selecting
community proposals, andensuring efficient implementation.

Agreements betweenACICAFOC andthe LOs.As the executing agency, ACICAFOC will sign
agreementswith each of the Liaison Organizations to carry out the designated activities inthe six project
priority areas. The agreements will givethe LOs the necessaryauthority to procure goods and services
required for implementationo fthe subprojects intheir respective priority areas.

DisbursementandFlowofFunds.ACICAFOC, as the executing agency, will be responsible for the
fiduciary activities o fthe project. Project funds will flow from the World Bank to a Special Account in
U S dollars, maintainedby ACICAFOC, which will be replenished on the basis o fWithdrawal
Applications. A project bank account inlocal currency (colones) will be opened to manage local
payments by ACICAFOC to enable the implementation of the different components under the purview of
the World Bank. Transfers will be made inU S dollars to the different liaison organizations upontheir
request directly from the SA into an operating account. The LOs (or ACICAFOC in areas without an LO)
may execute and manage subprojects funds directly or sign agreementswith communities for them to
implement their own subprojects.




                                                   - 117-

          Project ImplementationStructureand Flow of Funds
                        I   Global Environment Facility (GEF)                      I

      0                                                               Inter-American
              World Bank (IBRD)




                                                                                             ProjectCouncil:
                                                                                                Wayib + CCAD
                               1                     I                                   I                        I

                                      ExecutingAgency
                                            (ACICAFOC)


                      =
                        Admin. Asst.


 I                                                                                 1                     I
 I                                                                                                       I

 I                 Procurement                 2 Technical                  Accountant                   I

                                                                                                         I
 I                   officer                     officers
 I                                         L                                                             I




                                           Project Priority Areas
(SeeAnnex 2, Table 1 for countriescorrespondingto the six projectpriority areas. LiaisonOrganizationswill
work directly with communitiesin the priority areas via a technical liaisonofficer and administrativeassistant.)




                                                        - 118-

                                    Project Institutions and Functions

                              -                                     Functions*
ProjectCouncil                  1 Approve general strategy and Project Implementation Plan(PIP)

Objective: Provide strategic    1 Review and approve audit reports

  direction and supervise       1 Approve the project operational manual/operational regulations

  overall project               1 Interpret andresolve discrepancies or conflicts in application o fthe operation

  implementation to ensure        manual

  achievement o f goals.       1  Review/approve project annual reports

                               1  Review/approve monitoringand evaluation reports
Composition:                   1  Verify that the project complies with national and regional policies
  4 representatives of            Design and approve its own intemalrules
     Wayib                     1
                                  Review/approve annual work plans
  1 representative o f CCAD    1

                                1 Issue notice for project coordinator position, evaluate candidates, and make final
                                  selection
                                1 Regional conflict resolution

                                I Representthe project before intemational agencies

                                1 Clear andapprove financial relationships proposed by the PCU Coordinator with
                                  other funding entities
ACICAFOC                        B Receive, administer, and audit grant funds and scope o fproject objectives
                                  Keep a detailedrecord o f use o f funds, amounts committed, and balances ineach
Objective: Grant recipient      D
                                  disbursement category
  and executing agency
  Nine key officers and         B Generate reports and information requiredby CCAD and the Wayib

  board members                 D Verify that all contracting o f goods and services i s done inaccordance with the
                                  procedures o fthe relevant implementing agency (IBRD and IDB)
Composition:                    B Make sure that the operational manual is applied correctly
  53 member                     D Promote and strengthen community initiatives for administering community
  associations,                   conservation funds
  cooperative societies,        B Monitor the agreements with the LOs to ensure support for the subprojects and
  federations, and                procure goods and services for their implementation
   grassroots organizations       Participate inmonitoring and evaluation activities
                                B Execute subprojects inareas without LOs

                                   Coordinate activities inthe project area
 Unit (PCU)                        Ensure the implementation o fproject activities

 Ob'ective: Coordinate projecl     Supervise activities inthe project countries
                                   Prepare Annual Work Planfor presentation to the Project Council, IBRD, and
   implementation andserve      0
                                   IDB
   as technical and
   administrative liaison       0  Prepare annual technical reports on the achievement o f project goals and other

   betweenthe Project              reports for the PC and the implementing agencies as required.

   Council and other            0  Propose useful strategic studies for the project

   agencies participating in    0  Coordinate selection o f consultants
   project implementation       0  Coordinate strategic studies and review, evaluate, and approve subproject
                                   proposals
 Composition:                      Facilitate and support relationships betweenthe project promoters, government
      Coordinator                  officials, and other stakeholders inthe project area
   0  Administrative assistanl  0  Identify and make efforts to obtain additional funding for the project

   0  Procurement officer       0  Identify opportunities for technical support by national and/or regional programs
      Accountant                   andagenciesthat would strengthen the project

   0  Two technical officers    0  Handlesagreements and accords

                                 0 Coordinate procedures for procurement of goods and services

                                 0 Other functions expressly delegated by the Project Council
I




                                                      - 119-

 nstitution                                                        Functions*
 LiaisonOrganizations             Create, together with the PCU, a directory oftechnical assistance service
 :Los)                            providers (TSPs) that will be presentedto the Project Council for ratificationand
                                  approval. This directory will be updatedperiodically through an established
 3biective: Promoteand            process. No one onthe list of TSPs maybe a leader or official ofthe LOs.
   facilitate local activities    Promoteand facilitate local project activities
   and serve as intermediary      Receiveand evaluate proposals from eligible communities for activities and
   betweenthe PCUand              subprojectsinthe LOs' assignedproject priority areas, then submit selected
   local communities              proposalsto the PCU for final review and approval
 ZomDosition:                     Receivetransfer of bnds from the PCUfor approved activities, ensure that the
     Legal representative         funds are usedfor the intendedpurposes, and submit financial reportsto the PCU
     (unpaid)                     inaccordancewiththe project operationalmanual

     Technical liaison            Executesubprojectsor sign agreementswith communities for themthe execute
     officer                      subprojectsthemselves.

     Administrative and           Monitor and control the quality oftechnical activities carried out by the TSPs
     procurement assistant        Sign contracts with the TSPs to carry out the activities approvedby the PCU

* Thefunctions ofthe institutions are definedingreater detail inthe OperationalRegulations/OperationalManual.



LiaisonOrganizations

P                    Are
Maya                              Belize                 Asociacibn de Comunidades Forestales del Peten
    (area: 53,667 kmz)            Guatemala                  (ACOFOP)
                               I                        1Centro Maya SAQ BYE

 HumidAtlantic                    Honduras               Organizacibn de Desarrollo Etnico Comunitario
    (area: 6,869 km')             El Salvador                (ODECO)

 DryPacific
    (area: 7,927 km2)

 Sumo Miskitia
         -                        Honduras               Asociacibn de Mujeres Indigenas de la Costa
    (area: 102,421 km2)           Nicaragua                  Atlhntica (AMICA)

TalamancaBocas                    Panama                 Cooperativa de Servicios Multiples Cacao
                                                        1
    (area: 10,347 km')            Costa Rica             Bocatorefia (COCABO)

 DariCnKuna                       Panama                 Fundacibn DOBOYALA
    (area: 8,668 km')




                                                    - 120-

               Additional Annex 14: ProposedIBRD ComplementaryFinancing

   CENTRAL AMERICA: IntegratedEcosystemManagementin Indigenous Communities

Additional financing will be drawn from IBRDand IDBprojects that complement the objectives of the
Regional Indigenous Integrated EcosystemsProject. Project managersfrom both implementing agencies
andthe project PCUs are collaboratingcloselyto seek synergies andtake advantage ofopportunities to
use financing from the various projects to advance the objectives the Regional IEMProject. Linkages
between specific components have been identified and specific financing amounts proposed based on a
consultant analysis carried out for this purpose. This i s considered cofinancing by the GEF, but in World
Bank terminology is called complementary financing. Annex 14 shows complementary financing from
the IBRD, andAnnex 15 shows IDBcomplementary financing.

                        ProposedIBRDComplementaryFinancingat a Glance:




                                                                                               2,3 and4



                                                                                               1,2,3and4



                                                                                               1,2,3 and4



                                                                                               1,2, 3 and4



     Duration: 2004 - 2008                                                                     1,2,3, and4
     Total budget: 38.9 million
 11. OTHER WB PROJECTS:
 6. NORWEGIANTRUST FUNDESSD: Central America Indigenous
     PeoplesSustainableDevelopment                                               0.60                1
     Duration: 2004 -2006
     Total Budget: 0.7 million
 ProposedComplementaryFinancing Total -                                   I      12.3




                                                  - 121-

N




          I




          I




A    I
     I

                   .I-,
                     * v)
                       0

              0
              2      a




      Q?
      m




                cc,




                             m
                            2
                             I




I-




            A

x
m




     I




     I


I-    I
o
W

      r-    I




o
I-
w
0
7

01
Q     I



L




             u    A  A A

n
m
F?
.e
8

Y



30




    V
   u

                Additional Annex 15: ProposedIDB Complementary Financing

  CENTRAL AMERICA: Integrated Ecosystem Managementin Indigenous Communities

Additional financing will be drawn from IBRDand IDBprojects that complement the objectives o f the
RegionalIndigenousIntegrated EcosystemsProject. Project managersfrom both implementing agencies
and the project PCUs are collaboratingclosely to seek synergies andtake advantage o f opportunities to
use financing from the various projects to advancethe objectives the Regional IEMProject. Linkages
between specific components have been identified and specific financing amounts proposed based on a
consultant analysis carried out for this purpose. This is considered cofinancing by the GEF, but in World
Bank terminology is calledcomplementary financing. Annex 14 shows complementary financing from
the IBRD, and Annex 15 shows IDB complementary financing.

                          ProposedIDB ComplementaryFinancingat a Glance:




1. COSTA RICA      -PROGRAMFORREGULARIZATIONOF                   THE           1.5
   CADASTREAND PROPERTY REGISTRY (CR-0134)
    Duration: 5 years (Nov 2000-Nov 2005)
    Total budget: 92 million
2. BELIZE- LANDADMINISTRAION I1(BL-0017)                                       0.6                2
    Duration: 4 years (June 2001-June 2005)
    Total budget: 8.86 million
3. PANAMA-LANDADMINISTRATION AND                                               0.16                1
   REGULARIZATIONPROJECT-PRONAT(PN-0148)
    Duration: 5 years (October 2002-October2007)
    Total budget: 32.0million
4. PANAMA -SUSTAINABLEDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM                                       4.2              1 and 2
   DARIEN(PN      -0116)
    Duration: 6 years (December 1998-December2004)
    Total budget: 88.0 million
5. COSTARICA-PROGRAMA REGIONALDE DESARROLLO                                    4.6              1 and3
   SOSTENIBLEDE LA CUENCA BINACIONAL DELRIO
   SIXAOLA (CR-0150)
    Duration: 5 years (September 2004 - September 2009)
    Total Budget: 9 million
6. PANAMA -SUSTAINABLEDEVELOPMENTPROVINCE                                      0.49             1and 3
   BOCASDELTOR0 (PN-0149)
    Duration: 3 years (April2003 -April 2006)
    Total Budget: 16.9 million
7. HONDURAS PROBOSQUEPROGRAM(50-0218)
                  -                                                            0.45             1 and2
    Duration:4 years (December 2003)
    Total Budget: 25 million




                                                  - 129-

                                                           Proposed
                                                         Complementary
B                                                          Finaiiritig
11.    PROJECTWITH INDIGENOUSPEOPLESFOCUS:
8. HONDURAS-PROGRAMTO SUPPORTINDIGENOUSAND                0.72 million       1
   BLACKCOMMUNITIES- PAPTN@IO-0193)
    Duration: 2.5 years (November 2002 -May 2005)
    Totalbudget: 2,9 million

9. NICARAGUA-SOCIALENVIRONMENTFORFORESTRY                     1.5           3
   DEVELOPMENTPOSAFI1(NI-0141)
    Duration: 5 years (December 2001-December 2006)
    Total budget: 38 million
10. HONDURAS POVERTYREDUCTIONPROGRAM
                  -                                            10         1 and2
    FOCUSINGONINDIGENOUSPEOPLESAND AFRO
   DESCENDANTS-REPEPIN(HO-0197) pipeline
    Duration: 6 years (estimatedapprovaldate May2005)
    Total budget: 11.2 million
11. REGIONAL-ETHNOTOURISMPROJECTS-FONEMA(TC-                  0.7            4
    0201081-RS)
    Duration: 1.5 years (Approved December2003)
    Totalbudget: 0.9million
12. GUATEMALA -FORMULATIONOFTHE MIRADOR                      0.165          4
    WATERSHEDWORKPLAN(TC-0305033)
    Duration: 5 months(approved June 2003)
    Total budget: 0.165 million
Complementary Financing-Total                               25.085




                                               - 130-

I

3
m
3

I

rJ
m
3

--7




       I

3




        3
        I

  -3
  9

Y




     I
     w-l
     m
     3
      I

     I    I    I




          I    I




I    I


u?
0




   3




         I
        00
        m
        3

         I


3

d   ?
2   2
    vi     d
           'L
           0




           0




    d     l Q




  a8

       3
       d  3     3
       3    Q
          8      Q
                8

                    -
       3
       d        3
       8        d
                8     d
                      3


t.     d         d    d
z
a
i
n
Y
0
LI!
%
n
W
I
v)
PL
W
                           I
                           N
                           d

                           I

