Report No. PID10888
Project Name             Bangladesh-Public Procurement Reform (@)
Project
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Public Sector Management Adjustment;
Institutional Development
Project ID               BDPE75016
Borrower(s)              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Implementing Agency
Address IMPLEMENTATION MONITORING AND
EVALUATION DIVISION
Address: Room 25, Block 11, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar,
Dhaka
Contact Person: Mr. AKM Fazlul Karim, Director
General
Tel: + 880 2 911 8354
Fax: + 880 2 812 2210
Email: pprpl@bdonline.com
Environment
Category                 C
Date PID Prepared        May 7, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      February 1, 2002
Bank Approval Date       May 2, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Bangladesh CPAR has identified a whole series of deficiencies
contributing to the poor public sector procurement performance. These
include: absence of a sound legal framework governing public sector
procurement leading to proliferation of diverse rules and procedures among
various agencies; protracted bureaucratic procedures allowing multi-point
rent seeking; lack of critical mass of professionals to manage public
procurement as reflected in poor quality bidding documents and bid
evaluation, inordinate delays in completing the procurement process and
ineffective contract administration; and absence of mechanisms for
ensuring transparency and accountability in public procurement.       To
address the above underlying causes of poor public procurement
performance, the Bank, with support of the government, conducted a country
procurement assessment in 2000. The government has broadly endorsed the
findings and recommendations of the CPAR report, which, among others,
recommends the following:create a Central Procurement Policy Unit in an
appropriate ministry having the mandate to manage the public sector
procurement reform program;prepare and issue Public Procurement Rules and
Procedures;introduce a set of Standard Bidding Documents for goods, works,
and professional services, applicable to all public procurement;revise
delegation of powers and delayer the procurement approval process;publish
contract awards, introduce appeal procedures, and a code of ethics for
procurement staff; andestablish regular training programs to develop the
needed human resources.These recommendations underpin the design of the
proposed project.



2. Objectives
The development objective of the project is to increase efficiency,
transparency, and accountability in the procurement of goods, works and
services by government ministries, departments , statutory corporations
and other public bodies. The project would support public procurement
reform through introducing appropriate procurement rules and procedures;
building up procurement management capacity; and establishing a series of
mechanisms to improve transparency and reduce corruption. This reform is
crucial to strengthen the country's aid utilization capacity and aid
effectiveness, and to gain donor group's confidence to justify continued
development assistance to Bangladesh.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
In Bangladesh, the Bank has carried out substantial amount of AAA work.
Besides the CPAR, three major reports have been prepared: the Country
Financial Accountability Assessment; Corruption in Bangladesh; and Taming
Leviathan : An Institutional and Governance Review. During the course of
the above ESW work, the Bank has deepened its understanding of the country
specific issues and has been leading the donor group's dialogue with the
Government on governance. The Bank's expertise and advice have been well
received by the Government, the donor group and the civil society. Given
the Bank's institutional knowledge on procurement reforms and its ability
to bring global best practices to bear on the formulation of reform
program in Bangladesh, the Bank's support has contributed immensely to
help ensure the quality and substance of the reform program.
4. Description
The project consists of three components: (i) Central Procurement
Technical Unit (CPTU)- a Central Procurement Technical Unit will be
established in the Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division
(IMED) of the Ministry of Planning with adequate staffing and logistics,
responsible for carrying out procurement reforms following the
recommendations of CPAR. The unit will have no procurement/contracting
functions at any level except for its own needs and shall be established
as a permanent institution of the Government that will be sustained after
the project period; (ii) Procurement Rules and Procedures- public
procurement rules/procedures and standard bidding documents will be
developed and their uses mandated in line with the CPAR recommendations;
and (iii) Procurement Management Capacity- procurement management capacity
will be developed via a two-pronged effort: (a) institutionalization of
comprehensive and regular training programs through selected public and
private training institutions, and (b) establishing a monitoring and
evaluation capacity to track procurement performance of public sector
entities.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.46
IBRD
IDA $4.45
Total Project Cost $4.91
6. Implementation
IMED within the Ministry of Planning will be the implementing agency for
- 2 -



the project. The CPTU headed by a Director General will oversee all
project activities. The Director General will be supported by two
Directors, one each for procurement rules, procedures and training, and
the other for monitoring and evaluation. The CPTU will be assisted by a
team of high caliber experts under a technical assistance major
consultancy. A Steering Committee headed by the Secretary, IMED,
comprising representative of the key ministries will provide policy and
implementation guidance. The project has been approved by the Bank's
Board on May 2, 2002. The Government has created the CPTU.
7. Sustainability
The project design has made the strategic choice to support the creation
of basic policy and institutional frameworks in the medium term, which
will provide the foundations to sustain further reforms and institutional
capacity building effort in the longer term. The reforms to be implemented
during the project period-- establishing a Central Procurement Technical
Unit, introducing sound public procurement rules and procedures, and
improving procurement management capacity-- are permanent improvements to
the present regime. The CPTU will be maintained and will continue its
functions after the project period. The enforcement of proper procurement
rules and procedures together with measures to improve
transparency--particularly the appeal procedure and publication of bidding
results--, would help contain corruption, restore private sector
confidence and contribute to improving investment climate. All these would
help ensure sustainability of project outcome.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Three key lessons identified by the OED's evaluation of the Bangladesh
portfolio have been reflected in the project design. The first lesson
relates to the ownership issue. Many projects in Bangladesh show signs of
incomplete ownership and commitment to project objectives. To address
this, basic reform steps would be sought in the early stage of project
implementation, which are difficult to reverse and which will produce
tangible results quickly, thereby building up public support for
procurement reform.    The second lesson is to limit project goals to a
small number of crucial policy reforms and development impact objectives.
Specifically, the project is aimed at cutting procurement delays,
improving procurement quality and enhancing transparency in the
procurement process.    It is recognized that the determinants of success
of public procurement reform will include not only changes of rules and
procedures but also changes in incentives and behaviors. To bring about
sustainable improvement in procurement will be a long-term undertaking.
The Government has agreed to establish the CPTU as a permanent unit to
lead the long-term reform process.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        None.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Zafrul Islam
The World Bank
-3-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (91-11) 461-7241 x 607
Fax:   (91-11) 463-2275
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
May 10, 2002.
-4-



