Report No. 23583
Report No: I075016 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/27/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BANGLADESH      Project ID: P075016
Project: Public Procurement Reform Project       Task Team Leader: Zafrul Islam
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 1, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: April 30, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 4.45
Managing Unit: SARPS Sector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment; BI -
Institutional Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective of the project is to increase efficiency,
transparency, and accountability in the procurement of goods, works and
services by government ministries, departments , statutory corporations
and other public bodies. The project would support public procurement
reform through introducing appropriate procurement rules and procedures;
building up procurement management capacity; and establishing a series of
mechanisms to improve transparency and reduce corruption. This reform is
crucial to strengthen the country's aid utilization capacity and aid
effectiveness, and to gain donor group's confidence to justify continued
development assistance to Bangladesh.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project consists of three components: (i) Central Procurement
Technical Unit (CPTU)- a Central Procurement Technical Unit will be
established in the Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division
(IMED) of the Ministry of Planning with adequate staffing and logistics,
responsible for carrying out procurement reforms following the
recommendations of CPAR. The unit will have no procurement/contracting
functions at any level except for its own needs, and shall be established
as a permanent institution of the Government that will be sustained after
the project period; (ii) Procurement Rules and Procedures- public
procurement rules/procedures and standard bidding documents will be
developed and their uses mandated in line with the CPAR recommendations;
and (iii) Procurement Management Capacity- procurement management capacity
will be developed via a two-pronged effort: (a) institutionalization of
comprehensive and regular training programs through selected public and
private training institutions, and (b) establishing a monitoring and
evaluation capacity to track procurement performance of public sector
entities.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is located at Dhaka, and it does not involve environmental



issues or population likely to be affected.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: No environmental impacts are expected to arise as a result of
project implementation. And, the project will not involve any acquisition
of land.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
OP4.01 was applied for screening and categorizing the project. And no
safeguard issues and impacts are expected to arise as a result of project
implementation.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
n/a
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
n/a
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
n/a
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
n/a
n/a
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
The project will develop a mechanism to disseminate information on the
progress and impact of the procurement reforms. At the same time, feedback
-2 -



from public and private sector stakeholders and the public at large will
be gathered with the objective to adapting the implementation processes
and enhancing the project outcomes.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Zafrul Islam    01/24/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         L. Panneer Selvam        01/24/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Kevin William Casey      01/24/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 3 -



