Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3639 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Procurement Reform Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 13, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3639 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 2002, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
(B)
 the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend 
the credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
Taka 13,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 1(B) to this Agreement, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to Taka 9,000,000  until  the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account  plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 800,000;
(b)
“BIAM” means Bangladesh Institute of  Administration and Management; 
(c)
“CPTU” means the Central Procurement Technical Unit, to be established by the 
Borrower within IMED;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
(f)
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g)
“FY” or “fiscal year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, commencing July 1 
and ending June 30 of each year;
(h)
“IMED” means Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division  within the 
Borrower’s  Ministry of Planning;
(i)
“ITC-ILO” means International Training Center of the United Nations’ 
International Labor Organization;
(j)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementation Plan agreed 
with the Borrower and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(k)
“Service Contract” means  the Contract, to be entered into between IMED and 
ITC-ILO, pursuant to Section 5.01(b) of this Agreement, governing the services to be provided 
by ITC-ILO to IMED, in connection with Parts B and C.1 of the Project;
(l)
“Special Account” means the Convertible Taka Special Account referred to in 
Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and described in the Circular dated September 2, 1991 as 
revised on May 4, 1992 and December 24, 1992 of the Finance Division of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance entitled “Procedures for Operation of Convertible Taka Special Account 
(CONTASA) of IDA-Aided Development Projects Under Government-Departments, 
Autonomous, Semi-Autonomous Bodies,” as such Circular may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Association; and
(m)
“Taka” means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
3,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1 and 
October 1, commencing October 1, 2012 and ending April 1, 2042. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 1, 2022 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of  the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned   repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  5
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through 
IMED, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain and operate the CPTU, in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Association;
(b)
no later than one month after the Effective Date, issue a Government Order 
mandating the publication of all contract awards valued at $200,000 and above, in the media; and 
by no later than three months after the Effective Date, commence publishing the awards of such 
contracts; 
(c)
no later than six months after the Effective Date, (i) introduce a streamlined 
internal procurement approval procedure with significantly reduced number of layers; and  (ii) 
introduce procurement rules/procedures and appeal procedures;
(d) 
no later than nine months after the Effective Date, introduce standard bidding 
documents and request for proposals; 
(e)
no later than 13 months after the Effective Date, (i) establish management 
information system for procurement performance monitoring; and  (ii) introduce mandatory 
procurement audit by independent auditors for public sector entities; and 
(f)
no later than 18 months after the Effective Date, prepare a draft procurement 
law.
Page  6
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause IMED to appoint, no later than June 30, 2002, a 
financial management consultant (finance manager) in accordance with the provision of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account  for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six 
months after the end of each such year, 
(A)
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and 
(B)
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association 
may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
Page  7
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish  to the Association a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which:
(i)
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the 
period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the 
Credit;
(ii)
describes progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for 
the period 
covered by said report, and explains variances between the 
actual
and planned 
Project implementation; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association no later than January 31, 
2003,  covering the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through 
the end of December 31, 2002, and semi-annually thereafter.  
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has appointed, within CPTU, a Director General, a Director for 
Monitoring and Evaluation, and a Director for Rules and Procedures, and Training; and
(b)
the Service Contract has been executed and delivered, and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness have been fulfilled, except only the effectiveness of this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, or 
Deputy Secretary or Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary or Joint Chief, or Deputy 
Page  8
Chief or Senior Assistant Chief or Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic
 of Bangladesh
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
88028113088
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Dhaka, 
Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Mr. Anisul Huq Chowdhury
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
By 
/s/ Mr. Frederick T. Temple
Country Director, Bangladesh
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
485,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2)
Consultants’
100% 
services, including Training
(a) Service Contract
2,025,000
(b) All other services
906,000
(3)
Incremental Operating Costs
24,000
100% for FY 2002 and
FY 2003,
and 60% thereafter
(4)
Unallocated
160,000
TOTAL
3,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
Page  10
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means costs incurred by CPTU on 
account of the operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles, costs of consumables, fuel, 
and office utilities and supplies, but excluding the salaries of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 245,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after January 1, 2002.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) services of firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (iii) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; (iv) Training; and (v) Incremental Operating Costs, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
5.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower may use the Blanket 
Withdrawal Application Procedure for UN Agencies for all payments under the Service Contract, 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Taka a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 3 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
Page  11
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
3.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount which was not an Eligible 
Expenditure; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
Page  12
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 5 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve governance in public procurement, thereby 
increasing efficiency, transparency, and accountability, and increasing the perception of probity 
in the procurement of goods, works and services by the Borrower’s  ministries, departments, 
statutory corporations and other public bodies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Procurement Technical Unit
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment and operating costs for the 
establishment and operation of a  Central Procurement Technical Unit, to be responsible for: (a) 
carrying out procurement reforms; and (b) issuing public procurement rules and procedures, and 
standard bidding documents.
Part B
: Procurement Reforms
1.
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment for the improvement of economy 
and efficiency through: (a) the introduction of public procurement rules and procedures, the 
development and publication of a set of  standard bidding documents for goods and works, 
including sample models for BOT, BOO/turn-key contracts and community contracting, standard 
request for proposals for consultants’ services, including NGO services, and sample form for 
bid/proposal evaluation reports; and 
(b) drafting of a procurement law.
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment for the improvement of  
transparency by: (a) publishing contract awards; (b) simplifying procedures for advertisement; 
and (c) introducing public procurement website and pilot electronic bidding.
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment for the improvement of 
accountability through: (a) the revision of procurement approval process by introducing a 
streamlined and transparent approval procedures with significantly reduced number of layers; (b) 
the revision of delegation of powers; (c) the introduction of appeal procedure, and mandatory 
procurement audit; and (d) the introduction of  a code of conduct for public procurement staff 
and code of ethics for business communities. 
Part C
: Capacity Building
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment for: (a) the institutionalization  
Page  13
and carrying out of  comprehensive and regular training programs  for about 1600 participants 
through selected public and private training institutions; 
(b) the development of course curriculum, teaching materials and training programs for various 
target groups including training of trainers, procurement professionals, government officials, 
public and private sector auditors and selected private sector staff; and (c) the initiation of an 
in-country procurement training program.  
2.
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment for the establishment of  
monitoring and evaluation capacity in CPTU, through a fully computerized and real-time 
management information system, to track procurement performance of public sector entities.
(b)
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment for the establishment of  
a
public procurement website, integrated with the MIS, to provide access to procurement related 
information.  
(c) 
Provision of training for about 600 participants in the area of project 
management.
* * 
*
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the 
provisions of Section I of the Procurement Guidelines:
(i)
standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used;
(ii)
invitations to bids shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated 
Page  14
national daily newspaper and 
bidding documents shall be made 
available to prospective bidders, at least 28 days prior to the deadline for 
the submission of bids;
(iii)
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost;
(iv)
bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee;
(v)
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders;
(vi)
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any let or 
hindrance;
(vii)
bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail;
(viii)
all bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid;
(ix)
bids shall be opened in public in one place immediately, but no later than 
one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids;
(x)
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified period 
agreed with the Association;
(xi)
a bid shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association;
(xii)
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an investigation 
shall be made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which 
(A) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified 
and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and 
qualified bidder and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, 
then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the 
Association;
(xiii)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances;
Page  15
(xiv)
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than eight weeks and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period;
(xv)
negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders;
(xvi)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence; and
(xvii)
all contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $650,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Computer software, books, journals and magazines to cost less than $2,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines.
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (a) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, and (b) the first contract procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Part B.1 
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts procured in accordance with 
Part B.2 of this Section, the draft requests for quotations, evaluation of quotations, and the 
purchase order shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The 
Page  16
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines), and 
(b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the establishment of procurement monitoring system including the 
procurement website, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more per contract,  shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 
3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services related to the procurement awareness campaign and procurement audit, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
(a) Service 
Contract
Page  17
The Service Contract for procurement reform technical assistance and procurement 
training, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,600,000, shall be entered 
on a sole-source basis with ITC-ILO in accordance with procedures previously agreed with the 
Association.
(b)
Other contracts
Services of BIAM related to procurement training, up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding the equivalent of $700,000, and services of other institutions for research, studies, 
project management training, translation, and for seminars and workshops, which are estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services required for the mid-term review, financial management, and other short term 
tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  18
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
IMED, through CPTU, shall be responsible for the overall carrying out of the Project. 
CPTU shall be headed by a Director General who shall function as the Project Director and  
oversee and manage all Project activities. The Director General shall be supported by two 
directors, one for monitoring and evaluation, and one for procurement rules/procedures and 
training.
2.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation 
Plan, as revised and agreed with the Association, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation 
of the Project.
3. 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain a Steering Committee as specified in the 
Project Implementation Plan, which shall provide overall guidance in the implementation of  the 
Project.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about December 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by January 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
