                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000666




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IDA-36390)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION
                        (US$ 4.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                    PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                    FOR A

                  PUBLIC PROCUREMENT REFORM PROJECT




                                 June 25, 2008




Procurement Services Unit
South Asia Regional Office

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2002)

                  Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka
                        Tk. 57.25 = US$1.00
                       US$0.01747 = Tk. 1.00

                          FISCAL YEAR
                          July 1 --- June 30




             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAA         Analytical and Advisory Activity
APD         Academy for Planning and Development
BIM         Bangladesh Institute of Management
BIAM        Bangladesh Institute of Administration and Management
BOO         Build, Own, Operate
BOT         Build, Operate, Transfer
BWDB        Bangladesh Water Development Board
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CCGP        Cabinet Committee for Government Purchase
C&AG        Comptroller and Auditor General
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPI         Corruption Perception Index
CPTU        Central Procurement Technical Unit
DAC         Development Assistance Committee
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
DFP         Department of Films and Publication
DG          Director General
e-GP        Electronic Government Procurement
FMR         Financial Management Report
GoB/ GOB    Government of Bangladesh
IDF         Institutional Development Fund
IMED        Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division
ILO         International Labor Organization
I-PRSP      Interim Poverty Reduction Strategic Paper
ITC-ILO     International Training Center of ILO, Turin
LGED        Local Government Engineering Department
MDTF        Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MIS         Management Information System
MOI         Ministry of Information

MOP      Ministry of Planning
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NSAPR    National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction 2005
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development
PD       Project Director
PDO      Project Development Objective
PFM      Public Financial Management
PFMIP    Public Financial Management Improvement Program
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PPA      Public Procurement Act
PPPAP    Public Procurement Processing and Approval Procedures
PPR      Public Procurement Regulations/ Rules
PPRP     Public Procurement Reform Project
PRMP     Procurement Risk Mitigation Plan
REB      Rural Electrification Board
SBD      Standard Bidding Documents
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
SRFP     Standard Request for Proposals
TA       Technical Assistance
TI       Transparency International
WB       World Bank




                 Vice President: Praful C. Patel
              Country Director: Xian Zhu
                 Sector Director Barbara Kafka
               Sector Manager: Nadjib Sefta
          Project Team Leader: Zafrul Islam
             ICR Team Leader: Zafrul Islam

                                                                           Bangladesh
                                                      Public Procurement Reform Project




                                                                          CONTENTS




                      Data Sheet
                               A. Basic Information
                               B. Key Dates
                               C. Ratings Summary
                               D. Sector and Theme Codes
                               E. Bank Staff
                               F. Results Framework Analysis
                               G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                               H. Restructuring
                               I. Disbursement Graph

                              1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
                              2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
                              3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 13
                              4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
                              5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
                              6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
                              7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower / Implementing Agencies / Partners ...... 25
                               Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................... 26
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
                              Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 30
                              Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support / Supervision Processes .......... 31
                              Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 33
                              Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
                              Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and / or Comments on Draft ICR................... 38
                              Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners / Stakeholders..................... 41
                              Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
                              MAP       :IBRD 36265




OPCS PAD Form: Rev. March, 2000

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Public Procurement
Country:                Bangladesh             Project Name:
                                                                      Reform Project
Project ID:             P075016                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-36390
ICR Date:               06/29/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:
                                                                      OF BANGLADESH
Original Total
                        XDR 3.6M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 3.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/14/2001    Effectiveness:         08/08/2002         08/08/2002
Appraisal:             02/04/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/02/2002    Mid-term Review:                          05/08/2004
                                     Closing:               11/30/2005         09/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                         No                                       Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                        100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                            Primary          Primary
procurement


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:          Praful C. Patel                 Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:        Xian Zhu                        Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager:          Nadjib Sefta                    Kevin William Casey
Project Team Leader:     Zafrul Islam                    Zafrul Islam
ICR Team Leader:         Zafrul Islam
ICR Primary Author:      Florent Agueh



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to improve governance in public procurement, thereby
increasing efficiency, transparency, and accountability, and increasing the perception of
probity in the procurement of goods, works and services by the Borrower's ministries,
departments, statutory corporations and other public bodies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                            ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value        Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Timeliness of award of contract
                Average time elapsed
                (Invitation to Contract    M1. No contract-                   M1: 10% contracts

                Award):                    awarded after 12                   awarded after 12

Value                                      months                             months

quantitative or M1. 40% contracts-
Qualitative)    awarded after 12 months M2. 50%                               M2. 19% contracts

                                           contracts- awarded                 awarded within 3

                M2. 8% contracts-          within 4 months                    months and 20%

                awarded within 4 months                                       within 5 months

Date achieved 06/30/1998                   11/30/2005                         06/30/2007

Comments        12 months target- 90% achieved; 4 months target- modestly achieved mainly due

(incl. %        to a low rate of compliance for contracts at the ministerial and cabinet level

achievement)    approvals where elapsed time between bid opening and award averaged 7 and 9
                months respectively
Indicator 2 :   Reduction of unit rates of cost for major civil work contracts
                                                                              Environment for
                                                                              and quality of
                                                                              competition have
                M1. No conclusive                                             started to improve
                baseline data was          M1. Increased                      as a result of the
Value           available.                 competitiveness                    more level playing
quantitative or Competitiveness of the     with lower costs at                field created by the
Qualitative)    bidding process was later  key agencies                       new system. For
                considered as a proxy      (LGED,                             instance average
                qualitative indicator.     Municipalities)                    number of bidders
                                                                              increased from 3 to
                                                                              6 at LGED over the
                                                                              project period
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   11/30/2005                         06/30/2007

Comments        It is recognized that measurable cost reductions would take longer time for a new

(incl. %        system; at mid-term,this was gauged partially. A study is underway to measure

achievement)    efficiency of system with a more solid baseline for follow-up operation(results-
                Oct. 2008)
Indicator 3 :   Decrease in corruption perception and misprocurement cases
                M1. Corruption             M1. No target                      M1. Per CPI of TI
                perception data was not    value for change in                in 2007,

Value           available (as per CPI of   corruption                         Bangladesh stood at

quantitative or TI Bangladesh stood at     perception was                     156th position. The

Qualitative)    163rd position in 2001)    provided.                          positive effect of
                                           Reduction in the                   procurement
                M2. Bank declared 316 number of                               reforms are even
                contracts ineligible in    misprocurement                     more visible



                                                iii

               1999 (~ US$ 2 million), cases was focused                    recently due to
               and 84 contracts            as a proxy.                      anti-corruption
               misprocurement in 2000                                       drive
               & 2001 (~ US$ 4.9           M2. Number of
               million)                    misprocurement                   M2. Enforcement
                                           reduced. Better                  improved;misprocu
                                           enforcement of                   rement
                                           sanctions by local               reduced(FY06: 25
                                           bodies (LGED &                   contract; FY07- no
                                           Municipalities)                  contract)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   11/30/2005                       06/30/2007

Comments        Reduction in misprocurement as proxy for decrease in corruption was

(incl. %        questionable; such changes occur gradually through sustained reforms. There

achievement)    was an incipient change in perceived corruption towards the final years; its extent
                was difficult to ascertain.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval         Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :   M1. Public Procurement Rules (PPR) and Procedures developed and introduced.
                Procurement Law drafted.
                                           Promulgation of
                                           new improved                     The PPR was made
                                           rules, approval                  effective October 1,
                                           process and appeal               2003.
                                           procedure by
                                           November 2002                    Key SBDs and
                                                                            financial

                Fragmented and outdated    Issuance of                      delegations were

Value           government rules,          standard bidding                 issued together with

(quantitative   procedures and standards   documents (SBDs)                 the new

or Qualitative) prevailed prior to this    and of revised                   Regulations.

                project                    delegation of
                                           powers by                        Draft law was
                                           February 2003                    prepared by March
                                                                            2004, passed in
                                           Preparation of a                 Parliament in July
                                           draft Procurement                2006, and made
                                           Law by February                  effective in January
                                           2004.                            2008

Date achieved 12/31/2001                   06/30/2004                       06/30/2007
Comments        Targets have been fully achieved (albeit with some delays). Enactment of a
(incl. %        comprehensive modern Procurement Act, facilitated by strong linkages between
achievement)    this and other new lending operations, clearly went beyond initial expectations.
Indicator 2 :   M2. Critical mass of national trainers developed and providing training to



                                                iv

               approximately 400 staff annually
                                                                               40 trainers have
                                                                               been trained of
                                                                               which 25 have been
                                                                               accredited as
                                                                               national trainers.

Value           Limited ad hoc and          A total of 25                      1800 staff of about

(quantitative   ineffective training prior  trainers developed                 300 organizations

or Qualitative) to the project              and 1600 staff                     have been trained in
                                            trained                            main three-week
                                                                               courses. Besides,
                                                                               about 300 senior/
                                                                               mid-level staff and
                                                                               auditors trained in
                                                                               short courses
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    11/30/2005                         06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Targets have been fully achieved for the training of trainers and exceeded for the

achievement)    training of staff, although with some delays.

Indicator 3 :   M3. Centralized MIS established at CPTU and made fully functional
                                                                               Centralized MIS
                                                                               has been
                                                                               established at

                                            MIS established,                   CPTU and made
                                                                               fully functional.
Value           No systematic               made operational                   Invitation for bids
(quantitative   procurement monitoring and procurement                         and contract award
or Qualitative) system or centralized MISmonitoring data
                existed                     published on                       data are published

                                            CPTU's website                     in CPTU's website
                                                                               as per PPA/ PPR.
                                                                               Timely updating,
                                                                               however, needs to
                                                                               to be improved.
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    11/30/2004                         09/30/2005
Comments
(incl. %        Targets have been fully achieved although with some delays.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                  DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/28/2002            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.85
  2     02/10/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.89
  3     08/12/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.59
  4     11/20/2003            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.59
  5     05/19/2004            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      2.38



                                                 v

  6   11/04/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           2.59
  7   06/20/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           3.19
  8   12/18/2005   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory           3.57
  9   06/26/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    4.03
  10  12/21/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    4.16
  11  06/21/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    4.97



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.      Investing for good governance is a high priority for the World Bank (WB) and the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB). WB's Country Assistance Strategy 2006 (CAS) ­
aligned with the Government's National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction
2005 (NSAPR) ­ identified governance as the major constraint that held Bangladesh back
from improving its investment climate and empowering its poor ­ two pillars of the CAS
for accelerating the pace of poverty reduction. Governance has continued for a long time
to be the focus of all sector programs that the WB supports and engages in; and those
programs address both sector and core governance issues in public procurement and
public financial management. Similarly NSAPR highlights its strategic goals as relating
to good governance, enhancing efficient use of resources, promoting transparency and
accountability in resource use, and tackling corruption.

2.      Public procurement is not merely a mechanism for executing transactions ­ it is
an integral part of the development process and a priority area for improving governance
within the overall framework of public financial management (PFM). Budgets get
translated into services in large part through the operation of procurement. Public
procurement is also an area where corrupt practices can be exposed and addressed with
the expenditure of reasonable efforts; and successful procurement reform can help curb
corruption. Widespread corruption in public procurement is particularly damaging
because it perverts public spending (generates a lower rate of return), reduces the value of
public assets (bribe-givers benefit by skimping on quality), and distorts the economy
(firms invest in competing politically rather than economically).

3.      Bangladesh played, with World Bank support and this project's interventions, a
prominent role within the South Asia region during the last five years in changing the
procurement environment by establishing a procurement policy unit (Central
Procurement Technical Unit ­ CPTU; http://www.cptu.gov.bd), and through an array of
policy reform actions which included the passage in Parliament in July 2006 of a Public
Procurement Act (PPA) embodying a comprehensive set of international good
procurement practices. PPA 2006 became effective from January 31, 2008 after the
government promulgated the Procurement Rules (for implementing the Act) through its
gazette notification of January 28, 2008. Prior to that, the government formulated and
promulgated the Public Procurement Regulations (PPR) in September 2003 to govern all
procurements with public funds throughout the country. PPR had features and provisions
similar to those in the PPA including provisions of publishing contract award results,
annual post procurement audit, and independent review panel for addressing bidders'
grievances. Review panels are functioning reasonably well; they handled 18 cases as of
December 2007 and the Government acted in compliance with the panels'
recommendations in all but four of them. The Government has also been piloting
procurement performance monitoring in two key sector agencies.

4.      Though implementation of public procurement reform has been slow and
numerous challenges still remain, initial results clearly demonstrate (i) improvement in
competitiveness, (ii) reduction in inordinate delays in contract awards (except large value



                                              1

contracts), (iii) better transparency and accountability in public procurement, and (iv)
growing confidence of the people in the country's own system. To consolidate the
benefits of the reform process and make it sustainable, the Government started a second
follow-on procurement reform project with the Bank's assistance, focusing largely on
implementation, monitoring, e-procurement, and social accountability aspects of
procurement.




                                              2

1.1 Context at Appraisal

5.     The 2000 CAS identified governance and institutional constraints as the most
serious impediments preventing Bangladesh from achieving its full economic potential
and accelerating its pace of poverty reduction. Opaque public procurement practices,
poor financial management, high level of corruption, and decline in the quality of civil
service led to low expectation from public services and contributed to high cost of doing
business that in turn hindered private sector development. The World Bank Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) of 2002 identified deficiencies in public sector
procurement practices of that time as the most serious issue affecting activities of the
entire public sector. Outdated procurement rules and procedures, inadequate capacity to
manage public procurement, lack of accountability, and corruption seriously impacted the
country's aid utilization capacity and aid effectiveness. It was estimated by some that
economic losses due to overall corruption were costing the country about 2.5% in GDP
growth each year. There has been growing recognition within the country that improved
governance is a prerequisite for improving investment climate and accelerating private
sector-led economic growth.

6.      In this context, the Government's commitment to undertake a broad-based reform
agenda on governance was set by the 2000 CAS as a trigger for the Bank moving towards
high case lending support. Procurement reform was (and still is) an identified priority
area for governance improvement. The Public Procurement Reform Project (PPRP) being
reviewed in this report, a Technical Assistance (TA) project, was thus closely aligned
with the Bank's assistance strategy for Bangladesh.

1.2 Development Objective

7.      The development objective of the project was to increase efficiency, transparency,
and accountability in the procurement of goods, works and services by government
ministries, departments, statutory corporations and other public bodies. The project aimed
to support public procurement reform through the introduction of appropriate
procurement rules and procedures; building up procurement management capacity; and
establishing a series of mechanisms to improve transparency and reduce corruption. This
reform was deemed crucial to strengthen the country's aid utilization capacity, improve
aid effectiveness, and to gain donor group's confidence to justify continued development
assistance to Bangladesh.

8.      Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) in the PAD were:

       -    Timeliness of award of contract;
       -    Reduction of unit rates of cost for major civil work contracts; and
       -    Decrease in corruption perception and misprocurement cases.




                                              3

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

9.       PDO and Key Indicators were not revised during project implementation period
[was probably required, as discussed further in the ICR].

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.      This project was designed to support priority reforms to reduce delays, improve
quality and ensure transparency in public sector procurement. Direct benefits envisaged
under the project included faster and better use of public resources, significant reduction
of corruption and increased aid utilization capacity. The project was expected to restore
public confidence, thereby contributing to the creation of favorable investment climate in
Bangladesh. It was also expected to enhance the capacity of domestic construction and
consulting industries to participate more effectively in national and international
procurement. Achieving all the above was expected to create, in the longer term, a
powerful force that would foster more transparent and accountable institutions, resulting
in accelerated economic growth and faster poverty reduction.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

11.      The project has three broad components:

i. Establishing a Central Procurement Technical Unit (CPTU).
ii. Implementing Public Procurement Reforms and Rules / Procedures.
iii. Improving Procurement Management Capacity.

12.      Establishing a Central Procurement Technical Unit (CPTU): A Central
Procurement Technical Unit was to be established in the Implementation Monitoring and
Evaluation Division (IMED) of the Ministry of Planning with adequate staffing and
logistics. CPTU was to be responsible for carrying out procurement reforms in line with
the recommendations of CPAR 2000, and would function as a permanent entity of the
Government to handle procurement policy matters including providing guidance on
technical matters. CPTU was not to carry out any procurement / contracting related
functions at any level except for meeting its own needs. The Unit was designed to
provide technical / professional advice on generic procurement issues referred to it, but
was not to get involved or provide opinion in any specific procurement evaluation or
contract award ­ thus preserving its pristine role as a policy, technical assistance, training
and oversight body. One of the functions of CPTU was to create procurement awareness
at all levels. GOB was to establish CPTU as a permanent institution of the Government,
funded under its revenue budget, thereby ensuring sustainability beyond the project
period.

13.      Establishment of CPTU with adequate staffing was a condition for Board
presentation. The Government confirmed on April 4, 2002 though a memo that CPTU
had been created in IMED as a permanent institution funded under its revenue budget.



                                              4

The Board thereafter approved the Credit on May 2, 2002, which became effective on
August 8, 2002 after signing of contract with International Training Center of the ILO,
Turin (ITC-ILO) for providing services relating to procurement reform and training ­ this
last being a condition for Credit effectiveness. CPTU and its role has been made part of
the Public Procurement Act 2006, thus ensuring its sustainability regardless of whether
there is any project or not.

14.     Implementing Public Procurement Reforms and Rules / Procedures: Public
procurement rules / procedures and standard bidding documents were to be developed in
line with CPAR 2000 recommendations. CPTU was to follow a participatory consultation
process involving government and private sector stakeholders to develop ownership and
support for reforms. GOB was to furnish the draft new rules / procedures to IDA for
review and to incorporate recommendations for changes, if any, into the final documents
prior to their implementation. Activities under this component were to include:

    Improving economy and efficiency by:

    · Developing and introducing public procurement rules and procedures.
    · Developing and publishing a set of:
        (a) standard bidding documents for goods and works, including sample models
             for BOT / BOO / turn-key contracts and community contracting; and
        (b) standard request for proposals for consultants services, including NGO
             services.
    · Drafting a procurement law.

    Improving transparency by:

    · Publishing in the press and website awards of all contracts valued at US$200,000
        and above.
    · Simplifying procedures for advertisement by making the procuring organization
        directly responsible for publishing invitation for bids, instead of routing
        invitations for bids / pre-qualifications through the Department of Films and
        Publications (DFP) of the Ministry of Information ­ as was the rule at that time.
    · Introducing public procurement website and electronic bidding.
    · Including an expert of known probity in the evaluation committee for selection of
        consultants.
    · Sequestering of evaluation committee for contracts valued above certain
        thresholds.

    Improving accountability by:

    · Revising procurement approval process with significantly reduced number of
        layers.
    · Revising delegation of powers.
    · Introducing appeal procedure in the rules.



                                               5

   · Introducing mandatory procurement audit by independent auditors for each public
       sector entity, regardless of the source of funding.
   · Introducing code of conduct for procurement professionals.

15.    Improving Procurement Management Capacity: Procurement management
capacity was to be developed via a two-pronged effort: (a) institutionalization of
comprehensive and regular training programs through selected institutions; and (b)
establishing monitoring and evaluation capacity in CPTU to track procurement
performance of public sector entities. Contents and delivery modalities of the training
programs were to be tailored to the needs of various target groups, including private
sector construction / consulting industries and NGOs. Activities under this component
were to include:

   Procurement Training

   · A critical mass of 25 trainers was to be built up through intensive training, on-the-
       job evaluations and a rigorous accreditation process, with the aim of building up
       and helping sustain the in-country training capacity.
   · Approximately 1600 participants were to be provided with in-country
       procurement training during the project period.
   · Course curriculum, teaching material and training programs for various target
       groups, including government officials / auditors / selected private sector staff,
       were to be developed.
   · The International Training Center of the ILO, Turin (ITC-ILO) was to be selected
       on a single-source basis to provide services for the above activities. Bangladesh
       Institute of Administration and Management (BIAM) was to initially provide in-
       country training logistics.

   Procurement and Compliance Monitoring

   · A fully computerized and real-time procurement management information system
       (MIS) was to be established in CPTU to monitor and enforce compliance with
       new procurement rules and procedures, and evaluate the impact of public sector
       procurement reform.
   · A public procurement website was to be established to provide access to
       procurement related information.

   Project Management Training

   · A separate project management training program was to be supported under the
       project to provide training to about 600 project staff of the government. IMED
       was to conduct this training in collaboration with the Academy for Planning and
       Development (APD) or similar institutions.




                                             6

1.6 Revised Components

16.     Project components did not require revision during project implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

17.     Project closing date was extended from the original November 30, 2005 on three
different occasions. First, GOB requested an extension of the Credit up to June 2006 to
complete programmed activities. It also requested for a follow-on assistance after June
2006 to address, in particular, procurement monitoring, capacity building, and
introduction of e-procurement.

18.     WB responded positively and extended the credit up to June 30, 2006. At the
same time it undertook preparation of a second reform project with associated AAAs so
that there could be a continuity of reform beyond June 2006 ­ thereby ensuring
sustainability of the reform effort.

19.     Acting upon GOB request, WB subsequently extended the Credit up to June 30,
2007 to achieve continuity with the commencement of the second reform project.

20.     Finally, GOB requested a selective extension of the Credit for 3 months beyond
June 30, 2007 (only Category 2 of Development Credit Agreement- DCA: consultant
services) to complete critical actions relating to the preparation of procurement Rules by
ITC-ILO and continuation of training until the new consultant are on board. WB
concurred and revised the closing date to September 30, 2007.

21.     The formal Credit closing date was thus extended twice (the extension to
September 30, 2007 being a selective extension). Disbursement schedule was formally
revised to accommodate reallocation among disbursement categories and extension of
closing date. Last formal revision was in June 2006.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.     The Bank, with support of the government, conducted a country procurement
assessment in 2002. CPAR 2002 identified a number of deficiencies that were
contributing to poor performance of public sector procurement, such as: absence of a
sound legal framework governing public sector procurement leading to proliferation of
diverse rules and procedures among various agencies; protracted bureaucratic procedures
allowing multi-point rent seeking; lack of critical mass of professionals to manage public
procurement as reflected in poor quality bidding documents and bid evaluation,
inordinate delays in completing the procurement process; ineffective contract
administration; and absence of mechanisms for ensuring transparency and accountability
in public procurement. Its recommendations were:




                                              7

 Create a Central Procurement Policy Unit in an appropriate ministry having the
    mandate to manage the public sector procurement reform program.
 Prepare and issue Public Procurement Rules and Procedures.
 Introduce a set of Standard Bidding Documents for goods, works, and professional
    services, applicable to all public procurement.
 Revise delegation of powers and de-layer the procurement approval process.
 Publish award of contracts, introduce appeal procedures, and a code of ethics for
    procurement staff.
 Establish regular training programs to develop needed human resources.

23.      The project design was based on the CPAR recommendations. The strategic
choice was to support the creation of basic policy and institutional frameworks in the
medium term, which will sustain further reforms and institutional capacity building effort
in the longer term. The strategy's first set of priority actions therefore included (a)
reforming the procurement rules and mandatory use of standard bid documents so as to
cut procurement delays ­ the single most important problem in public sector procurement
in Bangladesh, and (b) introducing mechanisms to ensure transparency in the
procurement process and restore public confidence. The second priority was to gradually
improve the quality of procurement through attracting and retaining suitable staff and
training them over time. Taking cognizance of the political sensitivity and long drawn
process for a law combined with the need to start reform, preparation and enactment of a
public procurement law was considered a follow-up action to be taken after urgently
needed basic reforms were successfully completed, and accordingly this was reflected in
the PAD (Annex 1: Project Design Summary- last output of second component of the
project)..

24.      From the outset, there was limited international experience in preparing such
procurement reform interventions as stand alone project and therefore little guidance on
how to design procurement reform in an environment where the entire public sector
administration is outdated and broad reforms are needed. Thus, project design ­ this
being the first stand-alone Bank-financed procurement project ­ has had to opt for
approaches that were likely to generate a "good local fit." In this the project succeeded,
creating a sound foundation and attracting a constituency for reform.

25.      However, the lack of prior experience frame for project design, processing and
implementation might have also meant a lack of reliable base for calibrating
implementation pace and results expectations. As an example, increased efficiency in
public procurement was included as a project outcome while the strategic context of
improving the quality of procurement was clearly a second priority to be achieved over a
much longer term than the project implementation period would allow. The absence of
precedent programs also meant that criteria for selecting baseline data, that could be
directly used to evaluate achievement of project objectives, were generally not available.
It is a lacuna that these deficiencies were not adequately addressed during supervision.

26.      At the same time, certain critically important developments took place that, in the
course of implementing the project and in its direct consequence, were clearly beyond



                                               8

design expectations. Enacting and giving effect to a public procurement law (the project
envisioned only the preparation of a draft) is an example. It is imperative to recognize
and balance out those developments if the true dimension of public procurement reforms
in Bangladesh is to be understood, appreciated and, in the end, supported. This is more
fully explained in Section 3.4.

27.     As regards GoB commitment, clearly the implementing agency and the concerned
ministry were fully onboard during the entire project period. Though broadly it enjoyed
the support of most policy makers, because of the nature of this reform, several
constraints were managed during the process. For instance, approving the law in the
cabinet before its placement to the Parliament was debated at length despite the fact that
the issued PPR 2003 (most provisions are same in the law) was widely consulted with
broad spectrum of stakeholders including implementing agencies, bidding community,
and civil society. From this perspective, political economy was all along a risk part of the
project requiring skilled interventions and maneuvering at the right time. The project
managed to overcome those sensitivities through skillful handling.

2.2 Implementation

28.     Implementation of project components was deemed generally satisfactory in
terms of achievement of key outcomes and objectives. The country created the
foundation of an improved procurement environment; has been applying an uniform set
of procurement rules and procedures to all public procurements; achieved better
transparency and reduced time-lag for award of contracts ­ particularly where approving
authority lies at the agency level; reduced the number of re-bids (re-rendering in GOB
terminology); increased competitiveness in the bidding process; created an independent
grievance address mechanism and made it reasonably well functioning. It also improved
its position in the Corruption Perception Index of Transparency International from 163 to
156 over three years; some credit for which should be attributable to the reforms carried
out in public procurement.

29.     GOB established a procurement policy unit (CPTU) in IMED with staffing
funded from its own resources, thus ensuring sustainability. CPTU and the consultant's
team (ITC-ILO) have been functioning from a centralized location at IMED. Some
staffing issues however remain in CPTU.

30.     GOB completed most policy reform actions that were agreed under the project by
mandating new procurement regulations and associated procedures; passing a
procurement law in Parliament; and making the law operative. Some delays in
implementation occurred that somewhat retarded the attainment of project objectives.

31.     CPTU / ITC-ILO, in collaboration with Bangladesh Institute of Administration
Management (BIAM) and Bangladesh Institute of Management (BIM), developed a
critical mass of about 25 accredited national procurement trainers and provided three
weeks' procurement training to about 1800 staff of 276 organizations against a target of
1600.



                                              9

32.     A crucial deliverable of the project was that the government would develop and
introduce a set of public procurement rules and procedures (including standard bidding
documents, appeal procedures, revised procurement approval process, and simplified
advertisement procedures) by November 2002. The government was able to promulgate
the Public Procurement Regulations (PPR) in September 2003, the Procedures for
Implementation of the Public Procurement Regulation 2003 in September 2004, and the
Public Procurement Processing and Approval Procedures (PPPAP) in October 2004.
Also, CPTU issued standard bidding documents. Preparation of regulations/ procedures/
bidding documents appeared to have been done with adequate consultation with
stakeholders; there were two working groups for these activities comprising
representatives of implementing agencies, contracting communities, consultants
associations, NGOs, and professional bodies. Commencement of other project
deliverables was predicated on this one, so that the entire project suffered less than
satisfactory implementation progress. Credit closing date was extended on three different
occasions to absorb this impact; ensure implementation of agreed reforms; and ensure
continuity with its successor project to better ensure sustainability of reforms.

33.     In addition to the delay in promulgating the PPR, its operation became uncertain
through an unforeseen development. The government had covenanted with the Bank that
procuring entities would directly advertise invitation for bids and pre-qualification
without routing through the Ministry of Information (the extant practice at that time) and
that the advertisement would appear in at least two national dailies (one Bengali and one
English). Acting on this covenant, the government issued (through the Prime Minister's
Secretariat) the policy of decentralizing advertisement through its memorandum of May
28, 2003 and subsequently mandated observance of the covenant through Regulation 21
of PPR 2003. However the High Court issued on November 2, 2003 a Rule Nisi on the
government and put a three-month stay order on Regulation 21. The High Court extended
the stay order on January 18, 2004 till disposal of the Rule. IMED at one stage engaged a
legal expert to seek an early resolution of the case with the High Court. The High Court
disposed of the Rule and vacated the stay order on March 7, 2005.

34.     Another crucial project deliverable was that the government would prepare a draft
procurement law within 18 months of Credit effectiveness, which calculates to February
2003. The government prepared the draft procurement law within March 2004, finalized
the draft Public Procurement Act in June 2005, and it was expected to be placed before
the Cabinet the same month for approval. It would then be placed before Parliament for
enactment. A number of issues came up concerning certain provisions of the draft Act
during review by the Cabinet sub-committee and the Ministry of Law, requiring revisions
in the draft Act. The revised Act was placed before Parliament in February 2006; a
Parliamentary Standing Committee reviewed it thoroughly and made some adjustments;
and it was passed in Parliament in July 2006.

35.     The Public Procurement Act contained the proviso that it would come into force
after the government promulgates through a gazette notification the Rules for its
implementation. Formulation, review, and approval of the Rules by relevant government



                                             10

organizations consumed one and a half years after enactment of the law, and the gazette
notification promulgating the Rules appeared on January 28, 2008 ­ the Act becoming
effective on January 31.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

36.    M&E broadly involved tracking implementation progress, project outputs,
achievement of PDOs, and stated project outcomes.

   · Tracking of PDOs relied heavily on MIS reports and a Mid-term evaluation report.
       Coverage of these reports was partial and relevant MIS reports took time to
       produce. The PAD referred to Business environment surveys for tracking aspects
       of expected impact outcomes relating to improved governance in procurement.
       While the "Doing Business" annual reports provided some relevant information,
       these were not sufficiently disaggregated to allow the stated expected project
       outcomes to be appropriately measured.
   · Difficulties in tracking stated project outcomes were not only a reflection of the
       fact that the M&E design was not appropriate for tracking them or that this aspect
       was somewhat overlooked in an otherwise proactive supervision effort. These
       difficulties were also a reflection of the fact that these impacts would have only
       begun to emerge in the timeframe of the project. A better choice of DOs and
       associated indicators could have been made at the appraisal stage, a shortcoming
       that was recognized but not adequately addressed at the mid-term review or in the
       course of supervision.
   · Other aspects of M&E (progress and outputs monitoring) were appropriately
       designed, satisfactorily implemented and effectively used to address
       implementation performance problems. Of particular note was the effective use
       of the recommendations of the "Benchmark and Procurement Environment
       Assessment" study, carried out as part of the Mid-term review preparation, in
       strengthening the results-focus of the supervision efforts. This report
       substantiated that the time elapsed time between invitation for bids and contract
       award has been reduced (except for large value contracts), and this has been
       highlighted in the PDO indicators as well.
   · Positive progress of reform has been demonstrated by securing a rating of
       "Substantially Achieved" (3 on a scale of 4) in the independent assessment of the
       national system using baseline indicators similar to the initial OECD-DAC
       indicators, as described in the report "Review of Institutional Arrangement for
       Public Expenditure, Financial Management, and Procurement".

37.    Several analyses and assessments supported by the Bank have provided
independent assessments of aspects of project achievements. Of particular note is the (i)
"Operational Risk Assessment of Roads and Highways Investment" which provided an
extensive and thorough evaluation of the status of implementation of project-supported
systems and reforms in the Roads and Highways Department, a core procuring agency in
Bangladesh; (ii) "Assessing Procurement Environment" for key sectoral agencies (RHD,
LGED, BWDB, and REB) which provided useful information regarding improvement in



                                              11

timeliness for award of contracts; (iii) Quarterly reports on "Procurement Risk Mitigation
Plan (PRMP)" with a set of indicators, evidencing improvement in the competitiveness of
bidding process; and "Beneficiary Survey Report" of 2007 indicates growing confidence
of people in the country's own system.

38.    A Beneficiary Survey, carried out for stocktaking purposes and as an inputs into
the preparation of the follow up project provided valuable insights from individuals who
had first-hand working experience with public procurement during both the pre- and post-
reform eras and who could provide useful pointers about what would need to be done to
take public procurement reform forward during the second phase of the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance

39.    OP4.01 was applied for screening and categorizing the project. No safeguard
issues and impacts were expected to arise, and they did not, as a result of project
implementation.

Fiduciary Compliance

40.    Financial Management: CPTU followed the government accounting system in
force at the time (as well as at present). The main focus of the system was book-keeping
and transactional control over expenditure and that was considered adequate for the
project. Policy and procedures for transactions relating to government funds followed the
guidelines contained in the (then) recently introduced Project Accounting Manual of the
government. The existing financial management system in CPTU was able to process all
financial transactions following the Project Accounting Manual because most of the
project transactions related to a small number of local and international consultants.
CPTU prepared Financial Management Reports (FMRs) on a semi-annual basis and
monthly Financial Statements within fifteen days of the following month. A set of
customized formats of FMRs, included in the PIP, was used to submit project physical
and financial progress data to the Bank for monitoring.

41.    The annual financial statements of the project were audited by the Comptroller
and Auditor General (C&AG) and submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
each financial year. The audit reports included separate opinions on Project Financial
Statements, Special Account and SOE.

42.    Procurement: Implementation of procurement was generally satisfactory
although there were delays in some specific procurement. The large value consultancy
assignment for the ITC-ILO was the key procurement under the project, followed by the
consultancy contract with the local training institutes BIAM and BIM. There were low
value procurement of goods. Findings of procurement administration by CPTU, based on
post reviews conducted for several contracts, did not show significant procurement issues
except delays.



                                              12

43.     These arrangements proved adequate for fiduciary compliance.

2.5 Post-completion Operation / Next Phase

44.     The Bank undertook in 2006 the preparation of a second project for public
procurement reform with associated AAAs so that reform efforts undertaken during this
project can be sustained, and reforms accomplished under this project can be
consolidated and internalized.

45.     The AAAs associated with the new project were specifically chosen so that
paucity of baseline data, which made it difficult to evaluate some of the PDO indicators
of this project, is addressed at the outset. The AAAs should also provide early indications
of whether some of the PDO indicators of the new project would be difficult to monitor,
so that corrective measure can be adopted early on.

46.     This project created an enabling procurement environment ­ with country's own
regulatory institutional framework (CPTU), its own procurement laws / regulations, and a
critical mass of procurement professionals ­ which forms the basis for the follow-on
project. The design of the new project drew heavily on strengths identified, problems
encountered, and lessons learnt during implementation of this project. Design decisions
included: focus on implementation challenges, share procurement reform experience
from different regions; form task team with more diversified mix of skills from different
sectors; make suitable arrangements to improve procurement implementation capacity at
the targeted procuring entity level rather than at CPTU; involve key sectoral
implementing agencies / procuring entities through a technical working group (TWG);
focus more on the demand side of reform through participation of civil society /
beneficiary groups / stakeholders in the monitoring of procurement process and
outcomes; provide electronic disclosure of procurement process information through an
improved MIS and introduction of e-GP; use more realistic and relevant performance
indicators; and link procurement reform with public financial management reform, anti-
corruption and broader governance-related reforms.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

47.     The relevant objectives, design and implementation are summarized below:

· Project was highly relevant against the background of continuing efforts by the donor
    community to ameliorate the entrenched governance and institutional weaknesses of
    Bangladesh. The focus of the project has remained closely linked with objectives that
    have been central to a succession of CASs since 2000. It gained added visibility and
    importance under the 2006 CAS that placed governance at center stage.




                                              13

· The government that came into power in 2002 initiated promising reform efforts that
   culminated in a 2003 I-PRSP (later NSAPR in 2005) that set improving governance
   as the first of its five pillars. While this reform drive could not be sustained in many
   areas, significant advances were nevertheless achieved in critical areas such as
   procurement and financial management, where champions eager to do something
   about the persistent negative image of the country and against corruption and support
   from a large cross-section of the civil service and public opinion succeeded in
   overcoming opposition by powerful vested interests.

· Evidence of high relevance of project to Bank assistance strategy was demonstrated,
   at the implementation stage, by the close linkage established between project's results
   and the shape and pace of overall assistance program.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objective

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

48.    PDOs were cast too broad in view of project's scope, content and timeframe, but
meaningful progress toward several of them has begun to emerge but is not easy to
document. There exists however verifiable opinion among government officials and
business community ­ counterparts in the procurement transaction ­ that meaningful
progress towards achieving several of the broad objectives of the project has taken place.
Progress thus recognized includes:

   · Significant strides have been made towards the overarching objective of
       improving governance in public procurement. Coherent frameworks and systems
       have replaced fragmented and chaotic set of rules and practices. Extent and
       consistency of adherence remain to be established and are clearly partial, but
       available data and information point to a widespread acceptance and use of the
       project-supported improved procurement frameworks and systems. Clearly, the
       prevailing procurement environment is a much improved one.

   · Harmonization of rules, regulations and standards has allowed an increasing use
       of national procedures in procurement by donor partners, including the Bank,
       specially for local procurement. In that sense, the project has indeed contributed
       to improved aid utilization and effectiveness.

   · Achievements in terms of increased efficiency, transparency and accountability
       consisted mainly in the markedly improved timeliness of award of contracts at
       agency level, with targets being fully met for contracts awarded at
       agency/department levels and only partially met (40%) for contracts requiring
       ministerial and cabinet approvals. Cutting procurement delays has been an
       objective of critical importance as such delays had been identified as the single
       most important problem in public sector procurement in Bangladesh. Reduction
       of unit rates of cost for major civil work contracts and other possible cost
       efficiency gains could not be ascertained and the expectation that such cost



                                                14

        reduction would materialize during the project's timeframe was probably
        excessive.

    · Improvement of public confidence and decrease in corruption perception
        appeared to have begun to emerge but besides being incipient and inadequately
        tracked under the project, isolating the possible contribution of this project from
        those of other many possible contributing factors is not feasible under the current
        circumstances. Nonetheless, the project appears to have been one of the most
        visible Government's answers to questions about what was being done to fight
        corruption.

49.     In reference to the achievement of the intermediate outcome indicators,
attainment of each of the project's specific objectives and related outputs was as follows.

· Establishing a Central Procurement Technical Unit (CPTU): CPTU was established
    in April 2002 as a permanent unit of IMED, headed by a Director General with 10
    officers and 9 support staff. Actions taken were timely and effective. CPTU continues
    to be a lean, well focused, fully established and highly respected institution. Its
    success may be attributed to its location within the Ministry of Planning, assured
    funding from the government's revenue budget, dedicated and competent leadership
    and staffing, good TA support and arrangements, and strong but invisible support
    among the reformist (and non-rent-seeking) politicians and bureaucrats. Overall
    component rating: Satisfactory.

· Implementing Public Procurement Reforms and Rules / Procedures: Achievements
    under PPRP include (a) regulating framework, (b) Public Procurement Regulations
    2003, (c) Procedures for Implementation of the Public Procurement Regulations 2003,
    (d) Public Procurement Processing and Approving Procedure, (e) Public Procurement
    Act 2006, and (f) Key Standard Tender Documents and Standard Request for
    Proposals. Overall component rating: Satisfactory.

· Improving Procurement Management Capacity: Policy reform actions have started
    building confidence among citizens about the country's own procurement system.
    The project provided institutional training to relevant procurement officials including
    policy makers and decision makers. The project developed twenty-five accredited
    national procurement trainers and provided three-week-long procurement training to
    about 1800 staff of 276 organizations against a target of 1600. CPTU established a
    website where all policy related procurement information are available including
    publication of invitation for bids and contract awards as per the PPA. In addition, to
    track procurement performance, CPTU established a centralized MIS with a set of
    procurement performance indicators, similar to OECD-DAC, and made it functional
    with two pilot agencies. Overall component rating: Satisfactory.




                                              15

3.3 Efficiency

50.     In view of the nature of the project, no calculation of the economic rate of return
was attempted. The project was designed to support priority procurement reforms; the
direct benefits were related to faster and better use of public resources and increased aid
utilization capacity which in the longer term would result accelerated economic growth
and faster poverty reduction.

51.     To ensure sustainability of the reform initiatives, the Government provided
counterpart funding including budgetary support to maintain CPTU.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

52.     Though the project is considered as a flagship project in the area of procurement
reform and all components were implemented satisfactorily achieving targeted outputs by
creating significant contribution in changing the actual procurement environment in the
country, it is rated as Moderately Satisfactory because of the way the PDO and its
indicators were articulated which appear to be too optimistic to achieve within the project
life in case of PDO (rather those were close to impact) and some are not easily
measurable. Reviews of documentations reveal that, the concept of procurement reform
in itself was at the initial stage of development and there were not readily available
reliable source of information, in particular reference to the preparation of such stand
alone project. There were numerous interventions to address procurement related issues
on a piece-meal basis using either IDF grants or some similar arrangements. The
distinguished achievements that the project made on the ground would otherwise be
easily advocated for satisfactory rating, if not highly satisfactory, had the PDOs been
defined more precisely with measureable indicators.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

53.     The project was designed to improve governance in public procurement, which in
turn is widely believed to have a significant bearing on overall governance in the country.
The Bank has long held that improvement in governance has a positive impact on poverty
issues. The project was thus expected to have an indirect and non-insignificant positive
impact on poverty. It was not envisaged to have any impact on gender aspects or social
development except that the bidding documents have specific provisions to discourage
child labor in line with UN Conventions and the contractors would guarantee that it does
not happen. This contract provisions have created awareness among contractors about
untoward use of child labors.




                                              16

(b) Institutional Change / Strengthening

54.     One of the most important requirements for sustainable procurement reform is
satisfactory policy reform with adequate institutional arrangements for its implementation.
Most policy reform actions including the creation of a nodal procurement policy unit
(CPTU) have been completed for this project. The follow-on project intensifies the role
of CPTU as the premier organization to formulate and implement procurement related
policies. It aims to augment the resources and personnel available to CPTU in specific
areas so that it may provide a strong foundation to sustain ongoing and future reforms,
and institutionalize capacity development effort at local level in the longer term. At the
same time key sector agencies / procuring entities will be strengthened to enhance the
quality of managing the public procurement process.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

55.     There has not been any unintended outcome or impact.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

56.     A beneficiary survey (see Annex 5) was carried out to obtain in-depth analysis of
those individuals who had first-hand working experience with public procurement during
both the pre- and post-reform eras and who could provide useful pointers about what
would need to be done to take public procurement reform forward during the second
phase of the project. Major parts of the interviews dwelt on efficiency, transparency and
accountability in public procurement ­ the development objectives of the project.

57.     Most respondents felt that efficiency in public procurement had improved as a
result of PPR 2003. Almost all respondents agreed that the bid evaluation regime under
PPR 2003 had the potential to assure better value for money. Some respondents felt that
procurement funded with the government's own money used to be processed faster when
contracts could be awarded solely on the basis of price. The current requirement of
determining responsiveness and commercial qualification of bidder were seen by these
critics as slowing down the process.

58.     A conclusion that could be drawn form the above is that PPR 2003, and the
subsequent PPA 2006, contain ample provisions for enhancing efficiency in public
procurement ­ both in terms of time and money. Systemic defects persist that take away
those efficiency gains. It has been demonstrated that some of the problems can be
effectively addressed by the procuring entities themselves, or by their controlling
ministries, simply through greater respect for and sincerity towards current procurement
rules. A few minor issues may require some adjustments in the Public Procurement Rules
of 2008.

59.     As regards Transparency: All respondents agreed that PPR 2003 and its
associated rules provided an excellent framework for ensuring transparency in public
procurement. The contracting / supplying community expressed their satisfaction that



                                             17

unsuccessful bidders now had the opportunity to know in clear terms why they could not
be awarded a contract and, if not satisfied with a decision, knew how to go about trying
to get a grievance addressed. Clearly defined criteria for advertising invitations for bids /
proposals removed a widely abused avenue for non-transparent procurement behavior,
where advertisements used to appear in little known regional newspapers with the intent
to severely curtail competition. The procurement regulations and rules are not entirely
immune from abuse. Technical evaluation remains a weak area, where subjective grading
by an evaluator is possible, and proof is not easy. The reported experiences appear to
confirm that the full benefit of even well-designed laws, regulations, and rules may be
obtained only when there is proper enforcement and observance of those laws, and
behaviors are changed.

60.     Regarding Accountability: Respondents felt that the standardized processes
prescribed in the regulations and rules ensured that each procurement generated proper
documentary trail ­ which is a fundamental requirement for establishing accountability.
They felt that gross irregularity in public procurement was encouraged earlier because
lack of adequate or appropriate documentary evidence made it difficult to prosecute
perpetrators. The complaints and appeals process laid down in the rules was generally
appreciated as aiding accountability. The effectiveness of the review panel in reversing
some inappropriate procurement decisions at the highest levels of government during a
particular period drew much public approval. Some respondents however noted the
impunity with which the government of the time had ignored some of the decisions of the
review panel. Respondents felt that the public procurement law, once effective, would
have more teeth than the regulations, and would lead to prosecutions for such violations.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

61.     The intervention itself is in a risk-prone, highly sensitive, and at times politically
charged area, with entrenched powerful vested interests. Given that Bangladesh occupied
the bottom position for five consecutive years in the CPI of TI, it is evident that the forces
for corruption ­ rent seekers and rent givers ­ have been pervasive in the country and
entrenched in positions of power. Possession of a good set of regulations or laws has
never been a guarantee of good governance in this situation, because the corrupt are in a
position to break and even rescind laws with impunity. Public procurement reform
threatens corruption at its roots, and the development outcome of such reform will be
constantly at high risk from the cabal of corrupt politicians, business people, and
bureaucrats. However, major changes in the political landscape of the country in January
2007, and subsequent developments to-date, indicate that reforms in governance may not
suffer reversals under a future political government; though the level of commitment that
those reform measures may then enjoy cannot be predicted.




                                               18

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

62.     The Bank responded promptly to GOB request for possible technical assistance in
improving the country procurement environment through implementation of the
recommendations of CPAR. Though the CPAR was formally published in 2002, its
preparation started in 1998 and in late 1999, a draft CPAR was ready that thereafter went
through an intensive consultative process. There was no difference in views in principle
that the country's procurement environment has inherent weaknesses at that point in time
and that were need for substantial change in terms of its policy as well as capacity
development. Key inherent weaknesses include no uniform procurement policy, no
central procurement policy handling institution, protracted bureaucratic procedures, rent-
seeking behaviors using ambiguous provisions of the bidding documents, vague
evaluation criteria, lack of procurement professionals.

63.     There was broad consensus on procurement issues such that the CPAR was
endorsed in 2001 by an outgoing Government, with the succeeding Government that
came to power in 2002 starting to implement its recommendations. The entire project
was processed on a fast-track basis; from concept to Board, its processing was completed
in nine months time.

64.     Initially, the Bank started preparation of a global public sector modernization
project for Bangladesh that among others included a small sub-component on improving
procurement. Subsequently, it came out during project preparation review that the
Government was not very encouraged to undertake such a global public sector
modernization project in one go that would call for a massive change in the way the
public sector operates including civil service reform which is always contentious, yet
needed. And for this reasons, clearly, the Government did not hesitate to pick-up the
procurement part and asked the Bank for TA to implement that part as a stand alone
project.

65.     Project design was well focused, addressing three key areas of problems (policy
unit, policy formulation, and capacity development ) through a single intervention. From
the view point of identifying reforms and instrument to implement the reform, this project
certainly played a pioneering role and is generally appreciated not only by the
Government, but other development partners as well. Though the components were well
developed in the project document, the PDO and its indicators had some weaknesses in
the way those were defined and articulated. More attention to the results framework
would have provided a better results framework for this project.




                                              19

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66.     Overall, as procurement reform is a long-term process, this first operation was
relatively focused on the actual implementation of changes in policies and laws/rules, and
on capacity development program. The supervision was field-based and intensive,
requiring considerable inputs of staff time and close monitoring to get changes through
multiple country agencies. While recognizing the work that has been done by the Team
and the difficult context in which the reform was implemented, delayed implementation,
with two formal extensions, could be seen as the need for more solidification of broader
ownership by some stakeholder ministries who actually carry out procurement, although
clearly there were significant ownership of the implementing agency and its associated
ministry.

67.     The Panel for Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7) rated the quality of
supervision as Moderately Satisfactory overall, pointing out that the realism and fit of
performance indicators could have been improved, and there could have been more effort
in developing baselines relevant to key outcomes. The Panel was concerned that some of
the performance indicators were not monitored, did not have baselines, and were related
to longer-term changes which would need time to measure. The Team accepted this
criticism of supervision in the period under evaluation, and noted that there was a second
follow-up operation in preparation which would take these observations into account,
which has been done in the second project. The Panel also mentioned that Management
in particular provided timely and focused comments; however, guidance was apparently
inadequate on the need to re-do performance indicators for greater realism and to focus
on baselines relevant for key development outcomes (as against outputs).

68.     The QSA7 panel viewed that greater country ownership could have been obtained
for procurement reform by mainstreaming procurement into broader public sector and
public financial management reform. There are no hard conclusions about this as much
depends on the context and country environment where such reforms are being
implemented. In the case of Bangladesh, inclusion of procurement reform as part of the
overall public sector modernization did not work because that project never materialized
though the bank put in a lot of efforts and produced substantial documentations. In the
longer-term, the approach needs to be opportunistic, rather than waiting for an
overarching reform. Subsequent to the procurement reform, recently, the Bank initiated
preparation of a Public Financial Management Improvement Program under a Multi-
Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) where some procurement related issues have been made its
integral part to ensure better sustainability; this includes integration of procurement
planning with budget formulation and execution, and fund release mechanism. So, a
combined approach for Bangladesh appears yielding positive outcomes on the ground.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                               20

69.     Despite significant contributions in changing the procurement environment in the
country, the rating for overall Bank performance is Moderately Satisfactory, mainly due
to the inadequacy in the realism and fit of performance indicators that could have been
improved; it also associated with the need for more effort in developing baselines
relevant to key outcomes.

70.     The project was implemented in an environment where certain quarters of the
political leadership, while paying lip-service to procurement reform, were trying hard to
derail it. However, the executing implementing ministry (and the successive governments
more generally as stated under section 5.2 Borrower Performance]) remained committed
throughout the entire project life. Within these constraints, the Bank managed the project
successfully, making it a "success story" for the implementation of procurement reform
in terms of policy reform, institutional change through establishment of a nodal agency,
capacity development and procurement performance tracking. The Bank exerted efforts
beyond the Credit's scope to ensure that procurement reform remains on track.

71.     Project design closely followed recommendations made in CPAR 2002, and
remained fully aligned with CAS objectives during its lifetime. It correctly selected
medium and long term strategic goals so that basic policy, institutional and regulatory
frameworks were laid that would support and sustain further reforms and institutional
capacity building.

72.     The project effectively assimilated international procurement good practices into
the local context ­ in the face of limited international experience and guidance on how to
design procurement reform in an environment of outdated public sector administration
that was in urgent need of reform in many areas.

73.     Yet it must be conceded that: some stated project objectives were not fully
consistent with the well staged strategic framework adopted for project design;
generation of baseline data and identification of indicators to monitor PDO achievement
did not receive required level of attention during project design; and these misalignments
and shortcomings did not receive expected corrective actions during supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

74.     The Government of Bangladesh was generally committed to the project regardless
of the change in Governments between the project preparation and implementation. This
is one of the very few projects that enjoyed such unbroken support, recognizing the need
for an efficient, transparent and accountable procurement system in the country, an
essential feature for creating better investment climate and better utilization of aid.
Consistent with the CPAR recommendations, the Government was very supportive of the
idea of implementing all recommendations of the CPAR through a single project. As a


                                              21

clear signal of commitment, before the project was placed for Board's approval, GOB
established CPTU, the procurement policy making unit, appointed its Director General
and funded all its staff from its revenue budget. The Government engaged reputed
international consultants of ILO, Turin who has an established track record of helping
governments to carry out their procurement reforms and capacity development programs.

75.     Nevertheless, political interference was there at number of times during
implementation of the project. For instance, all invitations for bid were supposed to be
advertised directly by the implementing agency as per the PPR, without routing through
the Ministry of Information. But, there was High Court injunction for several months on
this which eventually was vacated. Also, though as per the PPR, the decision of the
independent review panel (complaints handling mechanism) on complaints was binding,
the Government in four out of 18 cases reversed the decision of the panel. There were
also significant delays in the implementation and decision-making process of the
Government. Still, the streamlined procurement approval process with reduced number
of layers is facing some problems, specially for contracts with large value requiring
approval of the ministry or its higher level (cabinet Committee for Government Purchase-
CCGP).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

76.     From the view point of commitment of the implementing agency and concerned
implementing ministry, the actions were mostly consistent with the DCA, and was noted
Satisfactory. Although CPTU has lean staffing, most of them are committed to the goals.
This is seen as one of the success factors of this project. During the project life of five
years, despite numerous changes in the position of Secretary, IMED (six times) under
which CPTU operates, there was no change in the head of the CPTU (Director General)
who was also the Project Director, that is, the PD retained his position during the entire
project period including preparation of the follow-on reform project and preparation of
the first project (total seven years). Even when the head of CPTU/ PD was promoted to
higher post (Division Chief, equivalent to Additional Secretary of GOB), at the request of
the Bank, GOB agreed to retain him as DG, CPTU and he agreed to continue to serve.
This was a rare example in Bangladesh of a committed civil servant who accepted to stay
in a position where he could continue to operate as an active agent at the price of
foregoing promising available career opportunities.

77.     The Ministry of Planning, the administrative ministry of IMED, also provided
adequate support to the project. While the State Minister for Planning was directly
involved with the project, the Minister for Finance and Planning was responsible for
overall guidance. At both level, the project received substantial support in handling
complex issues with vested interest groups even within the various ministries of the
Government. A case in point is the procurement law that went through extremely
arduous bureaucratic process but all the time the Minister for Finance and Planning was
determined to get it approved in the cabinet, and eventually he succeeded.



                                              22

78.     At the late stage of project, there were some changes in project staff which
affected to some extent its later part of implementation. However, overall, CPTU
managed to implement the project successfully although substantial delays were
experienced.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79.     It has been noted in earlier sections that certain vested interest groups within some
of the ministries exhibited behaviors not conducive for smooth project implementation,
specially as regards procurement law and functioning of independent review panels for
addressing complaints. These groups, however, did go along with agreed reforms when
goaded. Political opposition to procurement reform became virtually imperceptible after
January 2007, though pockets of resistance from the bureaucracy persist. The country
now has a fully functional public procurement law supported with detailed rules, and the
government must receive credit for this very important accomplishment.

80.     IMED played a good supportive role throughout project implementation. It
allowed CPTU, the nodal procurement policy and reform organization, full administrative
and financial autonomy to fulfill its mandate. Personnel in the CPTU worked tireless
hours, even on holidays, to finalize and publish the numerous documentation required to
support implementation of PPR 2003, followed by Procurement Act 2006, and
Procurement Rules in 2008. They worked with the same zeal in drafting the public
procurement law and rules, and in conducting the innumerable discussion sessions and
re-drafting exercises that followed.

81.     The legal attack against Regulation 21 of PPR 2003 (publication of invitation for
bids directly by implementing agency without routing through Ministry of Information)
saw CPTU pursuing the case ­ first with the law ministry and then with the appointed law
firm ­ as if it was a CPTU lawsuit that they were fighting. The donor community has all
along emphasized the importance of "ownership" and "champions" for the success of
reform oriented development interventions. The way CPTU went about fulfilling its role
provides one of the brightest and most satisfying examples of ownership and
championing the cause.

82.     Now that procurement entities throughout the government are coming on board in
adopting the reformed public procurement framework, wide variations in adoption and
competence have become evident. Major and sustained effort will be required to raise the
performance of the government as a whole to meet the standards of efficiency,
transparency and accountability envisaged in the project, a goal being pursued on a larger
and more comprehensive scale by the recently approved follow up project.




                                              23

6. Lessons Learned

83.    The PPRP attained its key objective of introducing the concept of efficiency,
transparency, and accountability in the public procurement system through a series of
mechanisms, that include among others, establishing a nodal procurement policy agency,
adopting a procurement law with associated rules and procedures; building up of
procurement management capacity; and introducing a system of tracking procurement
performance. The following major lessons have been learned:

   (i)     Reform is achievable when there is a determined and powerful champion
           within the Government system even in the face of opposition from different
           constituencies of the Government with variety of interests. This is more
           evident when at least the key implementing agency and the concerned
           ministry owns the broader vision of reform. CPTU of IMED within the MOP
           thus played the pivotal role in procurement reform.
   (ii)    In-built institutional mechanism within the Government's existing
           framework makes the reform more sustainable in the longer-term,
           although reform pace may be slow at the beginning. Establishment of CPTU
           with staff fully funded from GOB's own revenue budget, as opposed to
           creating a Project Implementation Unit with project fund, is an illustration of
           such sustainable mechanism. CPTU's role is now embedded in the
           Procurement Act, and is therefore, irreversible.
   (iii)   Continuity of qualified and experienced Project Director for the initial
           years of the project, if not for the entire period, can contribute immensely to
           moving difficult reform agenda forward and while providing better conduit
           for project implementation.
   (iv)    Reform actions should be sequenced for a longer-term horizon with clearly
           laid out phased approach, most likely through a number of interventions/
           projects, each with specific objectives, focused within the framework of the
           project.
   (v)     Continuous efforts need to be made through successive interventions to
           institutionalize capacity development with a robust framework for monitoring
           and evaluation of procurement performance through a set of clearly defined
           well articulated set of indicators.
   (vi)    More diversified mix of skills in Bank's project team and greater intensity
           of supervision with adequate budget provision will result in better project
           design and implementation of such projects. Taking this into cognizance, the
           second follow-on project includes a team comprising multi-sectoral skills
           (besides fiduciary, it includes power, transport, rural, public sector
           governance, social, communication), and provisions made for more budgetary
           resources.
   (vii)   "Demand side" of reform involving the beneficiary/ civil society is critical
           to bring in change in the mind-set of various constituencies and to make the
           system more transparent and accountable, thus contributing to greater
           effectiveness of the reform towards creating a better investment climate. This
           notion has been critical in designing the second phase of reform that has a



                                              24

           separate component on communication, behavioral change and social
           accountability.
    (viii) Linking procurement reform with country's other broader reform could
           bring in quicker benefits, such as in the areas of civil service, public finance,
           and anti-corruption. The current PFM Improvement Program that is under
           preparation specifically includes the relevant procurement issues such as
           procurement planning and budgeting, fund release mechanism, etc.
    (ix)   Focused PDO with measurable performance indicators makes the project
           design more robust. This has been given due importance while designing the
           follow-on project, and the PDO has been defined with measurable indicators
           in the second phase reform project.
    (x)    Improved monitoring and evaluation mechanism of the results framework
           helps to track performance of the project. The second project takes this into
           account, and a specific M&E framework has been put in place, with
           provisions of six-monthly M&E report through a third party.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower / Implementing Agencies / Partners
(a) Borrower / implementing agencies

84.     There were no issues raised by borrower / implementing agencies.

(b) Cofinanciers

85.     There were no co-financiers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

86.     There were no issues raised by other partners and stakeholders.




                                            25

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate  Actual / Latest
          Components                                                     Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)     Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)         Appraisal

Establishing Central Procurement
Technical Unit                            1.25               0.94           75.20

Implementing Procurement
Reforms and Rules/ Procedures             1.59               1.56           98.11

Improving Procurement
management capacity                       2.07               2.67           128.98

              Total Baseline Cost         4.91
Physical Contingencies                    0.00               0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                       0.002              0.00            0.00
              Total Project Costs         4.91               5.17
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00               0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00               0.00            0.00
       Total Financing Required           4.91               5.17           105.29



(b) Financing

                                                   Appraisal     Actual /
                                                                  Latest
          Source of Funds             Type of      Estimate                Percentage of
                                    Cofinancing      (USD        Estimate    Appraisal
                                                   millions)      (USD
                                                                 millions)
Borrower                                         0.46         0.20         43.47
International Development
Association (IDA)                                4.45         4.97         111.68




                                            26

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Establishing a Central Procurement Technical Unit (CPTU)

Output:

 GOB established CPTU in April 2002 as a unit of IMED with revenue budget.
 A total of 19 staff, including the Director General and two Directors were on board
    before Credit effectiveness, and worked for the entire project period with satisfactory
    performance.
 IMED signed in June 2002 a service agreement with the International Training Center
    of the ILO, Turin for procurement reform and procurement training.

Component 2: Implementing Public Procurement Reforms and Rules / Procedures

Output 1: improving economy and efficiency

The government issued the Public Procurement Regulations 2003 (PPR 2003) through a
Gazette notification on 1 October 2003. PPR 2003 is a set of nationally applicable
procurement rules and procedures modeled after international good practices of
procurement ­ including the World Bank Guidelines and UNCITRAL.

The government subsequently published the Procedures for Implementation of the Public
Procurement Regulations 2003 in September 2004, and the Public Procurement
Processing and Approval Procedure (PPPAP) in October 2004.

The government issued the Public Procurement Act 2006 through a Gazette notification
in July 2006. It published the Public Procurement Rules 2008 in January 2008, on the
basis of which it made the Public Procurement Act 2006 effective from 31 January 2008.

CPTU has published, finalized or drafted the following standard bidding documents listed
under Schedule 1 of the Public Procurement Rules 2008:

Goods and related services
 Standard Tender Document for restricted or open tender, up to taka 2.5 million ­
    domestic (form PG 2)
 Standard Tender Document for open tender, above taka 2.5 million ­ domestic (form
    PG 3)

Works and physical services
 Standard Request for Quotation, up to taka 0.5 million ­ domestic, international (form
    PW 1)
 Standard Tender Document for restricted or open tender, up to taka 10 million ­
    domestic (form PW 2)




                                            27

 Standard Tender Document for open tender, without prequalification, up to taka 350
   million ­ domestic (form PW 3)
 Standard Tender Document for open tender for design and construction, above taka
   350 million ­ domestic (form PW 4)
 Standard Prequalification Document, above taka 350 million ­ domestic (form
   PQW 4)

Intellectual and professional services
 Request for Proposal for selecting community services organization ­ domestic (form
   PS 1)
 Request for Proposal for selecting NGO ­ domestic (form PS 2)
 Request for Application for selection of lump-sum consultant ­ domestic (form PS 3)
 Request for Application for selection of time-based consultant ­ domestic (form PS 4)
 Standard Request for Proposal for selecting consultant firm, simple lump-sum
   contract up to taka 10 million ­ domestic (form PS 5)
 Standard Request for Proposal for selecting consultant firm, simple time-based
   contract up to taka 10 million ­ domestic (form PS 6)
 Standard Request for Proposal for selecting consultant firm, complex lump-sum
   contract above taka 10 million ­ domestic (form PS 7)
 Standard Request for Proposal for selecting consultant firm, complex time-based
   contract above taka 10 million ­ domestic (form PS 8)
 Request for Proposal for non-consultancy services, all amounts ­ domestic (form
   PS 13)

Evaluation (Drafts)
 Format and instructions for opening tender and preparing evaluation report for goods
   and works (form EVWG)
 Format and instructions for opening tender and preparing evaluation report for
   consultancy services (form EVS)
 Format and instructions for evaluation committee to prepare summary titled
   "procurement proposal" for approving authority (form PAP)
 Procurement post review process (form RPP)

Output 2: improving transparency

CPTU is collecting and publishing contract award information from public sector entities
of contracts valued at US$200,000 and above. For the same threshold, CPTU is also
publishing the invitations for bids, received from the implementing agencies.

All invitation for bids are directly published in the newspapers of wide circulation (one
Bengali and one English) by the implementing agencies. Public Procurement Act 2006
contains formal provisions for direct advertisement in print and electronic media, both
nationally and internationally.




                                             28

Major procuring entities maintain their own websites which, along with other information
specific to the organization, contain tender notices. The CPTU website contains links to
tender notices of a number of organizations, as well as links to standard bidding
documents and standard request for proposals. These developments are the precursors of
a public procurement website ­ which were envisaged under the project but are now
slated for implementation under the follow-on project. The Public Procurement Act 2006
contains specific clauses to support introduction of electronic procurement system.

The provision of inclusion of independent expert in proposal evaluation committee has
been partially implemented. The Public Procurement Rules 2008 mandates inclusion in
tender evaluation committees of external members with required knowledge, and
contains provision for selecting external members from universities or reputable
professional bodies.


Output 3: improving accountability:

The government issued in October 2004 the Public Procurement Processing and
Approval Process for all public procurement covered under the Public Procurement
Regulations 2003 with the purpose of streamlining those. The PPPAP has been embodied
in the Public Procurement Rules 2008 and specifies processing and approving entities /
authorities with respective time-lines for different types and magnitudes of procurement.
This has greatly helped in streamlining the procurement approval process.

The government, through the Finance Division, published: Partial modification of Sub-
delegation of financial powers order (revenue budget) in August 2004; Partial
modification of delegation of financial powers for development projects in July 2004; and
Delegation of Financial Powers for Corporations, Autonomous, Semi-Autonomous
bodies in September 2004.

The government constituted in August 2005 a Review Panel for Complaints and Appeals
to address bidders' complaints and appeals, and increased the number to three in April
2006. Each Review Panel consists of three experts selected from a list of distinguished
personnel and is located in the CPTU (one retired senior civil servant, one legal
practitioner, and one member from business apex body, all with experience in handling
procurement matters). The Public Procurement Act/Rules made the decision of the
review panel as binding upon parties.

The Public Procurement Rules 2008 specifies the requirements and conditions of
periodically carrying out post-procurement review by independent consultants, and
submission of the review report to CPTU.

The Public Procurement Act 2006 contains specific provisions for preventing and dealing
with professional misconduct of procurement professionals. The Code of Ethics for
Public Procurement appears as Schedule 13 of the Public Procurement Rules 2008.
CPTU has drafted a full set of code of conduct for public procurement staff and code of



                                             29

ethics for business communities (suppliers, contractors, and consultants) which the
government is likely to approve during the tenure of the follow on project.

Component 3: Improving Procurement Management Capacity

   · GOB developed a critical mass of 25 national procurement trainers, who are now
        providing their services as associate procurement trainers.
   · Over 1800 staff from over 276 agencies have been provided three-week
        procurement training in goods, works, and services. This exceeded the project
        target of 1600 staff.
   · 88 senior level public officials (ministry and agency) and about 150 mid-level
        ministerial officials have been provided short-training.
   · About 100 auditors have been trained through customized short-courses.
   · CPTU established a website that contains all policy related informations and
        publications including Act/ Rules/ SBDs/ SRFPs
   · A centralized procurement performance tracking system (MIS) has been
        established in CPTU that is being piloted with two implementing agencies. In the
        follow-up project, this will be expanded to a fully functional e-procurement
        system.
   · Two MIS reports have already been published at CPTU's website.

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic and financial analyses were not carried out during appraisal since this is a TA
project.




                                             30

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support / Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                 Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Zafrul Islam          Lead Procurement Specialist            SARPS TTL
Suraiya Zannath       Senior Financial Management Specialist SARFM FM
Mohammad Sayeed       Disbursement Officer (retired)         SARPS Disbursement
Ivonna Kratnyski      Senior FM Specialist                   LOA   Loan
Kishor Uprety         Senior Counsel                         LEG   Legal
Raghavan Srinivasan   Consultant                             SARPS Proc. Policy
Md Mokhlesur Rahman   Consultant                             SARPS Proj. preparation
Md. Khaled Jahangir   Procurement Assistant                  SARPS Support service

Supervision/ICR
Zafrul Islam          Lead procurement Specialist            SARPS TTL
Burhanuddin Ahmed     Senior Financial Management Specialist SARFM FM
Jose-Manuel Bassat    Senior Communications Officer          EXTCD Communication
Marghoob Bin Hussein  Procurement Specialist                 SARPS Procurement
Mohammad Sayeed       Disbursement Officer                   SARFM Disbursement
Tanvir Hossain        Procurement Specialist                 SARPS e-bidding
Md Abul Kalam Khalifa Consultant                             SARPS Mid-term study
Narayan D Sharma      Consultant                             SARPS Mid-term study
Peter-Armin Trepte    Consultant                             SARPS Capacity dev.
Shejuti A Ahmed       Research Assistant                     SARPS Analyt. support
Sushil Kumar Bahl     Senior Procurement Specialist          SARPS Mid-term review
Florent Agueh         Consultant                             SARPS ICR
Syed Ahmed Ali        Consultant                             SARPS ICR




                                      31

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY02                                  13.83                     49.20
 FY03                                                             0.00
                        Total:         13.83                     49.20
Supervision/ICR
 FY03                                    8.54                    12.51
 FY04                                    6.08                    31.76
 FY05                                    7.93                    11.00
 FY06                                    8.88                    48.64
 FY07                                    9.10                    22.22
 FY08                                    7.54                    31.18
                        Total:         48.07                    157.31




                                    32

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Officials directly involved with procurement planning and execution in major procuring
entities under the ministries of Communication; Power, Energy and Mineral Resources;
Education; Water Resources; Health and Family Welfare; and Local Government, Rural
Development and Co-operatives were interviewed, as were major contractors and
suppliers of those entities. The purpose of the interviews was to obtain in-depth analysis
of those individuals who had first-hand working experience with public procurement
during both the pre- and post-reform eras and who could provide useful pointers about
what would need to be done to take public procurement reform forward during the second
phase of the project. Additionally, selected officials of the Ministry of Planning; Ministry
of Finance; and the office of the Controller General of Accounts were interviewed to
elicit information about the planning, budgeting and accounting aspects of public
procurement, since these have direct bearing on the quality and efficiency of public
procurement.

Practical experience of the procuring, contracting and supplying community with reforms
in public procurement is limited to the Public Procurement Regulations of 2003 (PPR
2003) because the Public Procurement Act of 2006 (PPA 2006) became effective only
from January 31 of 2008.

Major parts of the interview dwelt on efficiency, transparency and accountability in
public procurement ­ the development objectives of the project. Responses received on
these aspects are summarized in the following paragraphs.

Efficiency:

Most respondents felt that efficiency in public procurement had improved as a result of
PPR 2003. In many instances, donors are now permitting the use of the national
procurement rules, and accepting reports in a single format agreed beforehand.
Before that, different procuring entities followed their own rules which were different
from one another. Bidders had to prepare their documents in different ways for different
organizations. Desk officers and evaluation committees had to spend a lot of time making
sure that procurement rules of each donor were satisfied. Desk officers also spent a great
deal of time preparing multiple reports for the same procurement in the respective
formats of each individual donor.

Almost all respondents agreed that the bid evaluation regime under PPR 2003 had the
potential to assure better value for money ­ which is the other measure of efficiency in
procurement. However, some respondents felt that procurement funded with the
government's own money used to be processed faster when contracts could be awarded
solely on the basis of price. The current requirement of determining responsiveness and
commercial qualification of bidder slows down the process.




                                              33

Respondents agreed that the delegation of approving authority made under PPR 2003,
and the sub-delegation of that authority within organizations, speeded up the approval
process. Many of them however observed that approving authorities were generally
taking much longer than the timeframes prescribed under the regulations; this is specially
true for large value contracts where still it takes significant time and delays the award
process. The propensity to push decisions to higher-than-necessary levels continues,
which lengthens the time taken for approval. There is a strong sense and
recommendations that the delegated financial authority at the agency level need to be
improved substantially to expedite procurement process.


Bidders often abuse the complaint address mechanism provided in the regulations. They
tend to take their complaints to levels of authority that are higher than those prescribed in
the regulations. Addressing complaints therefore takes longer than it otherwise would
have. Unsuccessful bidders sometimes lodge frivolous complaints ­ not with the purpose
of gaining anything for themselves but to make things difficult for the successful bidder.
Time lost due to these factors translates to loss of efficiency.

Members of the contracting / supplying community often complained that procuring
entities uniformly provide them the minimum time prescribed in the regulations for
preparing bidding documents, without any consideration to the complexity or size of the
package. Inadequate preparation time increases the risk of reduced competition and
mistakes in submitted documents, which ultimately increases the possibility of re-tender
­ with its concomitant wastages, translating to loss in procurement efficiency.

It is also common practice that procuring entities enforce the provision of realizing
penalties from contractors / suppliers for execution / supply delays, but rarely use the
provision for compensating contractors / suppliers for payment delays. It is common
practice in the government to explicitly delete from pro-forma contracts all references to
payment of compensation to contractors / suppliers before finalizing those. However,
delays in payment are common in government procurement. Refund of security deposit /
retention money is also routinely delayed or not made at all. Contractors / suppliers
perforce build in apprehended losses due to the above into their bid prices, reducing the
value for money in public procurement.

There have been occasions when members of some bid evaluation committee could not
arrive at a consensus and the procurement had to be re-bid. More commonly, external
members of bid evaluation committees are unable to attend scheduled committee
meetings ­ causing those meetings to be reconvened. Both situations lengthen the
procurement processing time. One organization has resolved the second problem by
having more than the recommended minimum number of external members in its bid
evaluation committees, thereby better ensuring that at least the minimum required
number of external members will be present in committee meetings.

The processes of budget allocation, budget approval, and fund release are commonly
found to be out of step with procurement cycles and procurement requirements of



                                               34

different government organizations. Non-availability of required funds ­ at required
times and in required quantities ­ undermine efficiency in public procurement.

In conclusion it may be said that PPR 2003, and the subsequent PPA 2006, contain ample
provisions for enhancing efficiency in public procurement ­ both in terms of time and
money. Systemic defects persist that take away those efficiency gains. It has been
demonstrated that some of the problems can be effectively addressed by the procuring
entities themselves, or by their controlling ministries, simply through greater respect for
and sincerity towards current procurement rules. A few issues may require some
adjustments in the Public Procurement Rules of 2008. Addressing a number of these
systemic defects may also require reforms in the Finance Rules and the Rules of Business
of the government.

Transparency:

All respondents agreed that PPR 2003 and its associated rules provided an excellent
framework for ensuring transparency in public procurement. The contracting / supplying
community expressed their satisfaction that unsuccessful bidders now had the opportunity
to know in clear terms why they could not be awarded a contract and, if not satisfied with
a decision, knew how to go about trying to get a grievance addressed.

The provisions for technical evaluation ­ on the basis of samples where needed, and for
pre- and / or post-shipment inspection ­ provided the procuring entity with clear
information about expected quality and performance of the product, and the opportunity
to ensure that received products conformed to what the supplier had promised.

Major procuring entities were maintaining their own websites, and notices inviting bids /
proposals appeared regularly on their websites in conformity with the requirements of
procurement regulations. Clearly defined criteria for advertising invitations for bids /
proposals removed a widely abused avenue for non-transparent procurement behavior,
where advertisements used to appear in little known regional newspapers with the intent
to severely curtail competition.

The procurement regulations and rules are not entirely immune from abuse. Technical
evaluation remains a weak area, where subjective grading by an evaluator is possible, and
proof is not easy. There are instances where a comparatively small and identifiable set of
desk officers carry out the actual evaluation of bids / proposals ­ contrary to the
requirement that members of the bid evaluation committee will have to perform this task
by themselves. This situation makes it easier to exert improper influence.

The regulations clearly mention proscribed procurement behavior such as collusion,
coercion, etc and the penalties for the same. One area that received particular attention
while framing the rules was that of `multiple dropping' in exceptional circumstances with
the permission of the Head of the Procuring Entity­ allowing the submission of bids at
more than one location that are separated geographically. One group of respondents
believed that when multiple dropping is allowed, it increases the scope for collusion.



                                             35

Another group believed that when multiple dropping is prohibited, it discourages
competition and increases the scope for coercion. A satisfactory solution to this
controversy is still being sought. However, for all Bank-financed projects, such
submission of bids at more than one location is not acceptable.

Respondents were aware that a pre-reform system called `enlistment' offered a formal
way to gradually build up the qualifications of contractors in public sector infrastructure
work. But most of them were also aware that the system suffered intense abuse, and
engendered corruption. Sub-contracting may be an option to consider.

The reported experiences appear to confirm that the full benefit of even well-designed
laws, regulations, and rules may be obtained only when there is proper enforcement and
observance of those laws, and the desk officers change their behavior.

Accountability:

Respondents felt that the standardized processes prescribed in the regulations and rules
ensured that each procurement generated proper documentary trail ­ which is a
fundamental requirement for establishing accountability. They felt that gross irregularity
in public procurement was encouraged earlier because lack of adequate or appropriate
documentary evidence made it difficult to prosecute perpetrators.

They also appreciated the requirement that bid evaluation committee members will have
to individually sign a declaration of impartiality; and collectively certify that the
respective evaluation report conformed to regulations, was factually complete and
accurate, and that material information had not been suppressed.

The complaints and appeals process laid down in the rules was generally appreciated as
aiding accountability. The effectiveness of the review panel in reversing some
inappropriate procurement decisions at the highest levels of government during a
particular period drew much public approval. Some respondents however noted the
impunity with which the government of the time had ignored some of the decisions of the
review panel. Respondents felt that the public procurement law, once effective, would
have more teeth than the regulations, and would lead to prosecutions for such violations.




                                             36

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No plan for holding such workshops on the ICR at this stage. The second phase of
reform is expected to take into account many of the lessons learned through this project.




                                          37

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR


                   Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
                                   Ministry of Planning
                Implementation Monitoring & Evaluation Division (IMED)
                       Central Procurement Technical Unit (CPTU)
                            Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, Dhaka-1207
  Tel: 9144252-3, Fax: 9144250, E-mail: info@cptu.gov.bd; Website: www.cptu.gov.bd

 The draft ICR on Public Procurement Reform Project (PPRP) has been reviewed by the
CPTU. The Project outcomes in the Rating Summary have conclusively been termed as
'Moderately Satisfactory'. But, if we go on a comprehensive review of the ICR
statements- the indicators based actual value achievement show highly satisfactory in
some cases, and satisfactory in many cases with a few exceptions of moderately
satisfactory. However, the following are the observations on the DICR:

1.      Under PDO indicators of Results Framework Analysis:

(i)     The sub-indicator 1, referring timeliness of awarding contract, the achievement is
        almost 90%.

(ii)    In case of sub-indicator 2- the competitiveness increased in tendering which is
        tending the cost down, but due to the lack of base line data it may not be
        comparable and judged properly. But, as a whole the trend is satisfactory.

(iii)   In case of indicator 3- the number of mis-procurement cases and extent of
        corruption reduced.

2.      Under the Intermediate outcome indicators:

(i)     The complains of sub-indicator 1, the satisfaction by the Bank has clearly stated
        in ICR for timely preparation of PPR & its effectiveness, preparation & Issue of
        SBDs, preparation and approval of draft law in July, 2006 and being made it
        effective in January 2008.

(ii)    In case of development of national trainers and training the ICR comments are
        very much satisfactory due to fulfillment and even exceeding the numbers.

(iii)   In case of establishment of MIS at CPTU and making it fully functionalized the
        comments in ICR is satisfactory.


3.      In case of Disbursement Profile the trend shown in the graph implies the actual
expenditure is a bit higher from the revised expenditure estimation which also implies
full satisfaction.



                                             38

4.    Apart from all those positive findings and comments stated in ICR the following
observations may be cite to comment the project execution as 'Satisfactory' as follows:

(i)   In para 30, the first sentence of the ICR stated that the outcome and attainment of
      objective as satisfactory. It also agreed to the reduction in corruption index. So,
      as the statement clearly says that the outcome and attainment of objectives is
      satisfactory then the actual project achievement should be commented as
      'satisfactory'.

(ii)  In para 50, regarding the achievement of immediate objectives and related outputs
      the ICR stated the full satisfaction (about all 3 components) which also justifies
      the rating of the project as 'Satisfactory'.

(iii)    The para 53, the statement itself agrees that due to very optimistic
         indicators/targets of the project the complete achievement was not possible
         within the project life and also some achievement could not properly judged as
         some of the indicators were not measurable. So that should not be the reasoning
         for terming the achievement 'moderately satisfactory' rather than 'satisfactory'.

(iv)  In para 63; the statement accused the Banks performance as Moderately
      Satisfactory showing the causes of inadequacy of appropriate performance
      indicators and insufficient baseline relevant information. But, it is clearly
      understood that in spite of both parties shortcoming in some cases, WB has given
      tremendous effort to obviate the problem to eliminate all constraints for
      successful Implementation of the project.

(v)   In case of output 2 (Improving transparency), it should correctly mentioned in
      ICR that CPTU now publishing 50 lakhs of tender value documents in website as
      lowest threshold.

(vi)  Though the ICR has given a total impression of cost expenditure, but it would be
      better if it adds a component wise expenditure statement in ICR.

(vii) In case of output 3, the delegation of financial power further enhanced at different
      levels in May'2008. This should correctly be stated in the ICR.

(viii) During assessment of the project the beneficiary survey is being done on
      subjective and selective basis. But for the actual evaluation, it is better to evaluate
      the whole thing in holistic but summarized/specific manner.

(ix)  The undertaking of the 2nd phase project (PPRP-II) itself states the satisfactory
      performance of the 1st phase project implementation. This 2nd phase project has
      been taken for sustainability of the reform process and enhancing the satisfactory
      level of performance to a highly satisfactory level.




                                             39

5.     Finally, with the utmost effort of both the parties i,e. WB & GOB this project was
executed and both had deployed their all effort knowledge, resources and time. Above all
the statement in many areas itself showed satisfaction regarding project execution,
objective and outcome achievement. So, for better judgment and inspiration for 2nd
phase implementation of the project the performance of the 1st phase execution should
better be re-termed as 'Satisfactory'.




                                            40

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners / Stakeholders

This project did not have cofinanciers or other partners / stakeholders.




                                            41

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank 2001: Country Financial Accountability Assessment Report

The World Bank 2002: Bangladesh Country Procurement Assessment Report

The World Bank 2002: Public Procurement Reform Project- Project Appraisal
Document

The World Bank 2005: BD: Public Expenditure, FM, and Procurement Review (Draft)

The World Bank 2005: Report on Baseline Indicator System

The World Bank 2005: Benchmark and Procurement Environment Assessment (Draft)

The World Bank 2006: Bangladesh Country Assistance Strategy.

The World Bank 2006: Quality of Supervision Assessment Report (QSA7)

The World Bank 2006 BD: Country Assistance Strategy

The World Bank 2002-2007: Implementation Status Reports

The World Bank 2007: Operational Risk Assessment of RHD

The World Bank 2007: Beneficiary Survey Report

The World Bank 2007: Public Procurement Reform Project II- Appraisal Document

The World Bank 2007 Capacity Assessment of CPTU/ IMED

The World Bank 2007 Operational Risk Assessment of RHD- Draft Report

The World Bank 2007 Behavioral Change Communication & Social Accountability-
Draft Policy Note

The World Bank 2007 Strategy for Procurement Capacity Development- Draft Policy
Note

The World Bank 2007 Strengthening Monitoring & Evaluation at Sectors- Draft NLTA

C. Other

ADB: Hand Book on Problems in Procurement for Project Financed by ADB.
Government of Bangladesh 2005, National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction

RHD, LGED, REB & BWDB: Delegation of Financial Powers for Development Projects.
LGED: Quarterly Report on Procurement Risk Mitigation Plan




                                        42

43

