Document of
FILE COPY                              The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2263-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP'ENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND FOODGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
March 15, 1978
This documnt hk a retsictd diltrbutle ad -y be und by eipients only in he performnce of
their official duti  Its contents mAy nt othdrwie be disclosed without World Dank agtbohrztion. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 26.70 to
the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US
Dollar and consequently the Taka/US Dollar rate is subject to
change. The rate below has been used throughout this report.
US$1          -    Tk 15.5
Tk I          -    US$0.0645
Tk I million  -    US$64,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                     -    0.405 hectare (ha)
I mile (mi)                     -    1.509 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)           -    640 ac (259 ha)
1 maund (md)                    -    82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (ton)              -    26.8 md
1 cubic foot per second
(cusec)                      -    0.0283 cu meters per second
ABBREVIATIONS
HYV    -  High Yielding Varieties
IRDP   -  Integrated Rural Development Program
PECU   -  Project Engineering and Construction Unit
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
PSC    -  Project Steering Committee
PM     -  Planning and Monitoring Cell
TCCA   -  Thana Central Cooperative Association
TPC    -  Temporary Purchase Centers
GLOSSARY
Aman   -  Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested
in November or December (B. aman is broadcast, T. aman
is transplanted)
Aus    -  Rice planted during March and April and harvested during
July and August (B. aus is broadcast, T. aus is transplanted)
Boro   -  Rice planted in winter and harvested during the period
April to June
Paddy  -  Unhulled rice
Thana  -  Administrative unit in Bangladesh.  There are 413 thanas
in the country. Six or seven thanas form a subdivision,
three or four subdivisions form a district, and there are
19 districts in the country.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND FOODGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:          US$25 Million equivalent
Terms:           Standard
Purpose:         To help improve the storage capacity and operating
efficiency of the domestic foodgrain procurement
program. The project will assist the Government
in implementing a farmgate price support program.
By enabling the Government to increase its levels
of domestic foodgrain procurement the project would
increase production and farmer income. Losses would
also be reduced by improvements in pest control and
paddy drying operations. There is a risk that in-
creases in the supply of grain in the project area
would be inadequate to permit the economic utili-
zation of the net addition to storage capacity made
available under the project. However, given the
Government's efforts to expand production and domestic
procurement, the risk is not considered large. The
credit will finance storage facilities, essential
equipment, vehicles, mechanical drying facilities and
technical assistance to (a) increase storage capacity
and improve farmer access to Government procurement
centers; (b) strengthen grain inspection and pest
control operations; and (c) develop the marketing
potential of selected Thana Central Co-operative
Associations. A study of private storage would be
undertaken to identify constraints and investment
needs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                           Local    Foreign    Total    X Foreign
------- US$ million -----    Exchange
Items
Godown
Construction
Land                        0.2        -          0.2           -
New Godown Structures    13.8         4.6        18.4          25
Ancillaries and Power       2.8       0.9         3.7          25
Rehabilitation              0.3       0.2         0.5          35
Engineering &
Construction              1.9       0.3         2.2          12
Sub-Total             19.0       6.0        25.0          27
Procurement
System
Testing & Reception
Equipment, Vehicles    2.1         1.3        3.4          39
Training and                 -         -           -            -
TCCA Pilot Project        0.3 _     0.1        0.4           41
Sub-Total              2.3       1.4         3.7          39
Paddy Drying
Civil Works                 0.1        -          0.1          25
Dryer Equipment             0.2       0.6         0.8          75
Sub-Total               0.3      0.6         0.9          69
Pest Control
Equipment and Vehicles,
Training                  0.3      0.3         0.6           47
Sub-Total              0.3       0.3         0.6          47
Technical
Assistance
Engineering                 0.1       0.5         0.6          84
Procurement & Drying,
Pest Control              0.1      0.5         0.6          90
Studies, Planning
and Monitoring             -       0.1         0.1          12
Sub-Total              0.2       1.2         1.3          80
Base Cost
Estimates                   22.1       9.5        31.6          30
Physical
Contingencies              0.9      0.2         1.1          23
Price
Contingencies              5.3       1.9        7.3          27
Total Project
Costs                      28.3      11.7       40.0          29



- ii~i -
Financing Plan:
Bangladesh
Government        IDA        Total
------------US$ Millions---------
15.0          25.0         40.0
Rate of Return: About 21%.
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY   FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81      FY82
------------------ US$ Million ----------------
Annual                  -      0.3       7.5     8.8      8.4
Cumulative              -      0.3      7.8    16.6      25.0
Appraisal
Report:       Appraisal of a Second Foodgrain Storage Project,
February 15, 1978, Report No. 1715a-BD.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND FOODGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$25
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a second foodgrain storage
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. The last
country Economic Report circulated was entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic
Performance and Development Policy Issues" (Report No. 1469-BD, of May 19,
1977). This report was distributed on May 23, 1977; it was based on a field
mission undertaken in November 1976. Since that date, a further economic
mission has visited the country (in November 1977) and its report is currently
under preparation. The basic conclusions of this most recent mission are
summarized below.
Economic Prospects in FY78
3.        Economic growth in Bangladesh is heavily influenced by the perform-
ances of agriculture (mainly foodgrains and jute) and industry. For FY78 the
harvests are expected to be good. Weather conditions have generally been
favorable, and the prices prevailing in the previous season, combined with
anticipations of a further strengthening of demand in FY78, encouraged farmers
to increase the acreage sown to both jute and aman rice, and to invest in
modern agricultural inputs.
4.        With respect to industry, the seasonal distribution of production
makes it impracticable, on the basis of data for the early part of the year,
to predict with any confidence what the trend will be for the year as a
whole, but increased consumption and investment are expected to yield a strong
upturn in performance. This was facilitated during the first quarter by the
expansion of the "Open General License Scheme" at the beginning of the calendar
year, enabling an increase in the importation of industrial raw materials.
Unfortunately, this was suspended in October 1977 because demand exceeded
available foreign exchange; however increased demand for jute goods, cotton
textiles, and construction works, and the continuing strong demand for fer-
tilizer, are believed to be stimulating increased capacity utilization.



- 2 -
5.        The prospects for both raw jute and jute goods exports have
improved. However, despite a 17% increase in raw jute production this year,
aggregate raw jute availability is limited due to the stock rundown caused
by the poor crops of the two preceding years. But, since this is also a
characteristic of the world market, the average export prices of raw jute and
jute goods are estimated to be 12 and 15% higher respectively than in FY77.
Thus, the increase in aggregate jute export earnings for the year should be of
the order of 8%. Minor and nontraditional exports such as fish, leather and
spices are expected to continue to grow, but at a diminished rate, due to such
factors as international competition, and domestic shortages.
6.        The Government is continuing to pursue prudent monetary and fiscal
policies. The planned monetary expansion for FY78 is linked to the anticipated
rate of economic growth, and the Budget includes no provisions for deficit
financing. However, Government did purchase an unforeseen 296,000 tons of
foodgrains at a total cost of $63 million, at the beginning of the financial
year (in order to ensure an adequate pipeline), while revenue collections
from customs and excise have been less than targeted, so far.
7.        As a result of the improvement in the general economic situation,
both the volume and value of imports are expected to increase substantially
over the financial year. An important factor here is the projected increase
in foodgrain imports - to a total volume of 1.8 million tons and value of
US$279 million - despite record harvests expected to total 13.2 million tons.
This is regarded as an essential step towards attaining the official target
stock of I million tons, required both to maintain foodgrain security, and
to facilitate open market operations. Physical imports of raw cotton, fer-
tilizer and cement, and to a much lesser extent edible oil and minor consumer
products, are also expected to increase significantly. The average prices
of rice, wheat, oil seeds and cotton are projected to decline, and those of
petroleum products, fertilizer and cement to increase. Overall, the net
effect is likely to be an increase in the value of imports of 47% to a total
of some US$1,275 million for FY78.
8.        To summarize:  aggregate rates of growth are projected at 10% for
agriculture, 8% for industry and 8% for the remaining sectors combined, yield-
ing about an 8% growth rate overall. The increased availability of imports
and foodgrains, combined with plans to limit monetary expansion, should help
to contain the rate of inflation at 7%, as compared with 11% in FY77.
Major Developments and Policy Issues
9.        Foodgrains.  A number of measures to increase foodgrain output
were introduced in FY78. The procurement price for aman rice was increased
by 8% over FY77 (to Tk 132/md), and was announced well in advance of the
planting season. In addition measures to facilitate procurement, including
the opening of 100 new purchasing centers, a strengthening of staff cadres,
an expansion in the number of grain dealers, bank branches and payment points,



and increased flexibility in the quality requirements, were instituted which
should facilitate domestic procurement, the target for which was raised from
400,000 to 500,000 tons. During FY77, input packages consisting of fertilizer
kits, and a Tk 1,000 million credit program (of which Tk 400 million has been
disbursed), were introduced on an experimental basis. These policies, combined
with favorable weather conditions, are expected to increase FY78 production
by 11% over FY77, to 13.2 million tons - the highest level of output since
independence. These steps have led to considerable increases in fertilizer
usage. However, these short term gains, while considerable, must be weighed
against the laxity in credit discipline and the disruption in extension activ-
ities which appear to have characterized the crash programs.
10.       The foodgrain ration system has been further modified through an
increase in the price of rice distributed of 11% and of wheat of 14%; an in-
crease in the percentage of wheat distributed to most ration categories, to
change the wheat/rice ratio to 2:1 in those cases; and the elimination from
the system of those households enjoying incomes of more than Tk 1,600 per
month combined with a limitation on all households of a maximum of six cards.
"Essential Supply Shops" have been opened to enable these newly excluded groups
to purchase food necessities at less than the open market price. This is
described as a transitional measure and in general the new strictures are
commendable steps towards the stated objective of providing rations to vul-
nerable rural and urban groups alone. At present such rural groups tend to
be bypassed, despite the continuation of both the Modified Rationing System
and the Food for Work program, and rural public works programs should be
expanded. At the same time, increased utilization of wheat and "new" cereals
such as sorghum in the ration system, could, if combined with an intensive
publicity campaign to ensure acceptability, have an important impact on
nutritional standards. The increae in the ratio of wheat to rice constitutes
a firm step in this direction.
11.       Jute.  In response to the favorable jute/rice price ratio existing
in FY77, and the early announcement of a higher jute procurement price for
FY78, the area sown was increased by 29% to 1.8 million acres, including
500,000 acres under the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS). Total
output, despite bad weather conditions, rose from 4.7 million bales in FY77
to 5.5 million bales in FY78. The mills needed to replenish their diminished
stocks, and this combined with a buoyant international raw jute market to
generate a total demand greater than supply, and so to increase prices from
Tk 130/md at the beginning of the season, to Tk 175/md at the end of December
1977. This price trend should encourage a significant increase in the acreage
sown to jute next season, and, in combination with Government's continuing
program of expansion in the IJCS, to further increase output to some 6 mil-
lion bales in FY79. This should help to set the price of jute goods at an
internationally competitive level. The Government is optimistic about the
future for jute production in general, under the assumption that the currently
buoyant world market will not be undercut by expansions of output in other
producer states.



-4-
12.       The jute goods sector is also expected to benefit from the increase
in world demand for FY78. Shortages of raw jute however are expected to limit
the expansion in the volume sold to 9% (or a total of 480,000 tons). Despite
these shortages, anticipated revenues should increase due largely to a 15%
rise in jute prices. Industry losses will nonetheless be of the order of
Tk 300 million for FY78, but this is better than the Tk 525 million loss in-
curred in FY77, and certainly very much better than the Tk 700 million loss
originally foreseen.
13.       Public Enterprises.  The general upturn in economic activity during
FY78 should substantially increase capacity utilization in the public sector,
particularly in the cement, cotton textiles, engineering, and steel indus-
tries. The pricing policy with respect to textile output has been revised
to reflect input costs. Primarily because of this, losses sustained by the
industry are expected to be reduced. Both this, and the improvement in net
returns anticipated in the jute goods industry, are prime factors in the fore-
cast decline in the combined losses of the public sector enterprises for FY78.
The basic problems afflicting the effective operation of public enterprises
however, continue primarily in the form of excessive centralization and con-
trol exercised by ministries over the day to day commercial functions of the
enterprises. A number of these issues have been alluded to in previous eco-
nomic reports. Some progress has been made in alleviating the most difficult
problems, but the approach has essentially been an ad hoc one. Any marked
improvement in the performance of public enterprises must be predicated on
greater functional autonomy, particularly in the determination of input and
output prices, and the incentives offered to employees. A number of supple-
mentary measures, including a decision to sell off any enterprises that have
continually been incurring losses, may also be necessary. The object should
be to conserve the resources available so that they may be invested in those
areas that offer the best scope both for growth and the maximization of
social benefits.
14.       Domestic Resources.  The budget for FY78 includes no structural
changes in the tax system, and thus the heavy dependence on both indirect
taxes (primarily customs and excise duties) and aid derived counterpart funds
continues. A shortage of funds available to the development account will
result in reductions in development expenditures. The changes in the ration
system in mid year should make some contribution here, and a number of less
essential expenditures have been weeded out, but subsidies to nationalized
enterprises, albeit less than originally anticipated, will remain high. Over-
all, current expenditure is targeted at 10% greater than in FY77. In order
to raise additional resources for development, very much more stringent mea-
sures will have to be introduced. The cost effectiveness of the various
production and consumption subsidies should be closely examined, and appro-
priate remedial measures instituted. Similarly, since inappropriate pricing
policies lie at the root of most losses in the public sector, appropriate
policy changes will have to be identified and instituted here also. Such
measures, combined with policies to lessen tax evasion and improve tax
administration, offer the best hope for improving resource mobilization in
the short-run. Even if these efforts are undertaken and prove successful,



they will need to be supplemented by a higher level of aid disbursement--
principally in the form of commodity aid--in order to ensure that an ade-
quate level of counterpart funds is generated for the implementation of
ongoing projects.
15.       Project Implementation.  A number of steps to improve the Govern-
ment's capacity to implement projects were taken during 1977. The Project
Implementation Bureau's staff was strengthened, and its ability to monitor
progress improved considerably. Project entities were assigned much greater
functional autonomy--especially with respect to the authorization of expendi-
ture. For FY78 the complex procedures for the allocation of monies to pro-
jects were simplified, and the Government is trying to speed up the approval
of projects in the pipeline, and to weed out existing projects that do not
promise early completion. These measures are welcome. At the same time,
it is important to focus on other major problems which have slowed down pro-
ject implementation in the past. Greater fungibility in the disposal of de-
velopment monies should be introduced, so that fast moving projects can employ
the funds of those that have stalled. Delays resulting from breakdowns in
machinery, shortages of supplies, absenteeism, and bad planning of sequences
of activity, must be avoided. Donors could help by ensuring that project
resources are supplemented by the provision of a higher proportion of local
currency cost in aid transfers, in order to ensure that the implementation of
projects is sustained even when Government revenues fall short of expectations.
16.       Pricing Policies.  The forthcoming Approach Plan offers the Govern-
ment a good opportunity to eliminate the price distortions that have hampered
economic growth in the past. It has already made a start, and an apparent
shift towards more market oriented pricing policies has been an encouraging
feature of economic management in FY78. First, the Government has recognized
the beneficial effect on production of an adequate incentive price for farmers.
Subsequent modifications to the foodgrain ration system were also indirectly
intended to achieve this end. Second, in encouraging jute mills to purchase
raw jute soon after the crop was harvested, the Government hoped to reverse
the traditional slump in prices during the immediate post harvest period, and
so ensure that farmers really benefitted from the price support. Third, in
permitting textile mills to pass on to consumers increased costs of imported
cotton, it enabled the industry to reduce its losses. The Government has
indicated that it intends to further improve pricing policies in a broad range
of sectors. This is both commendable and crucial; a realistic pricing struc-
ture is essential, both for the maintenance of efficiency, and for effective
utilization of resources.
17.       The Balance of Payments.  Estimates for FY78 and revised estimates
for FY77 are given in Table 1. The buoyant international market for both
raw jute and jute goods and, to a substantially lesser extent, the expected
modest increase in earnings from non-traditional exports, are major factors
in the projected increase in export earnings for FY78 of US$29 million, to a
total of US$450 million. On the other hand, the country's heavy dependence
upon imports, when combined with the increased tempo of economic activity
envisaged for FY78, implies that imports will increase by some US$410 million
(to a total of US$1,275 million) over the same period. The resultant trade



deficit of some US$825 million is expected to be modified by a surplus of
US$84 million on the services account, but the current account deficit is
nonetheless projected to be US$362 million greater than in FY77. In addi-
tion, debt amortization is estimated at US$25 million (US$8 million greater
than in FY77) yielding an overall deficit for FY78 of US$766 million.
Table 1: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US$ million)
FY77               FY78
(Revised Estimate)     (Estimate)
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)                            -865              -1,275
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)                             421                 450
Trade Balance                                     -444                 -825
Other Current Account (net)                               65                  84
Current Account Balance                           -379                 -741
Amortization:  Medium and Long Term Debt                 -17                 -25
Short term Capital Movements
(net) (including IMF)                                 -50                   -
Changes in Reserves (-=increase)                         -80                  66
External Capital Disbursements                           526                 700
of which:
Food                                               130                  210
Commodity                                          249                  270
Project                                            147                   20
Cash                                                                    200
Source: Government of Bangladesh and IBRD estimates.
The Medium Term Development Focus
18.       In its memorandum for the July 1977 Bangladesh Aid Group Meeting,
the Government spelled out a medium-term development strategy. Agriculture
will continue to be the cornerstone of the program, but within agriculture
the emphasis will be on an intensified Rural Developmment Strategy, which
seeks "growth with equity" in the distribution of benefits. To this end,
strenuous efforts to expand the acreage under high yielding varieties of
seed, to intensify "Food for Work" programs, to step up agricultural input
programs, and to improve the efficiency and capability of the country's
agricultural support institutions, are envisaged. It is as yet too early
to judge the extent to which the Government's intentions will be translated
into realistic programs of action, but they do represent an essential
first step.
19.       Industry too, is to be the subject of a determined development
effort, aimed at increasing both its efficiency and its contribution to eco-
nomic growth. Basically, the new industrial strategy is comprised of two
elements: first, measures to improve the climate for private investment;



- 7 -
including an increase in the ceilings for such investment, the payment of
compensation for nationalized property, the encouragement of foreign colla-
boration in selected fields, the provision of increased opportunities for
participation in domestic and foreign trade, and an attempt to activate the
capital market; and second, measures to improve the performance of public
enterprises, such as increased autonomy in matters of staff management, pric-
ing policies and inventory control, and the creation of distribution networks.
In order to obtain significant improvements in this sector, however, very
much more will be required.
20.       Strengthening of the administrative framework is a further necessary
focus of Government effort. The frequent overlapping of functions, and insuf-
ficient decentralization of authority, have been important reasons for delays
in the execution of projects in the past. The Government has indicated its
intention to remedy these defects, and has taken steps to reduce administrative
bottlenecks previously impeding project execution. Discussions on IDA financ-
ing of technical assistance in project preparation for the Planning Commission
are currently underway, and project preparation and implementation cells are
being set up both in Ministries and in Public Sector organizations, in order
to identify, develop, and monitor projects. Finally, a joint Government/IDA
review of the Water Development Board's organization and programs is underway,
and an IDA assisted study to determine means of strengthening the capabilities
of both the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Bangladesh Agricultural Develop-
ment Corporation, has led to proposals for strengthening the financial manage-
ment of these institutions.
21.       A substantial revenue effort is another major component of the strat-
egy. Foreign assistance currently finances some 80% of Bangladesh's develop-
ment expenditures. However, total revenues were estimated to have increased
by 11% (or about twice the rate of growth of GDP) during FY77, when measures
such as a 20% increase in the price of fertilizer, a small irrigation charge
for Water Development Board projects, and taxes on both urban non-agricultural
land, and all agricultural land in holdings greater than 8.4 acres, were
introduced.
22.       Finally, population planning is assigned high priority, and forms
an integral part of the Government's economic development strategy. With the
assistance of IDA and bilateral donors, Government has developed a program
emphasizing a multisectoral approach, and including motivation, communication,
and education. It involves a major effort in training both medical and para-
medical personnel, in coordinating a number of agencies, and finally in
devising programs for research and evaluation.
23.       These policies and measures represent a good start, but they are
no more than a beginning in tackling the major problems of expanding the out-
put of foodgrains, increasing domestic resource mobilization, promoting ex-
ports and improving administration. Both the successful implementation of
measures already initiated, and the formulation of additional measures, will
be necessary in future.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
24.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.  Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation
of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to Pakistan,
before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.2 million (including
US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under
the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were
made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of January 31, 1978, 24 new credits, ex-
cluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph 25,
have been made, totalling US$716.3 million.  Of these, US$425 million have
been for six program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricul-
tural development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunica-
tions, transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th
member of the IFC, but no IFC investments have been approved as yet.
25.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bi-
lateral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became inde-
pendent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next ten years, it may
do so by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued,
and aid provided on appropriately concessional terms.   With respect to the
Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh, and completed before inde-
pendence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9 mil-
lion, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were signed on
February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding exter-
nal debt is not expected to rise significantly (over the next few years), from
the present level of about 22%.
26.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of January 31, 1978, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, owing inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, clearance
of contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Gov-
ernment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks but, although some
improvements in project implementation have taken place, they have not yet
been reflected in disbursement performance. This is due in part to substan-
tial delays occurring in the submission of withdrawal applications for local
expenditures by executing agencies who have little incentive to seek reim-
bursement in foreign exchange (which goes to the Bangladesh Bank) once they
have made the expenditures from their own budgets. In addition, serious
implementation constraints remain, because of shortage of qualified staff,
over-centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies.
However, progress is being made on these issues. For example, at the Gov-
ernment's request, IDA is providing assistance to improve organization and
procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies dealing with agricul-
ture and water resources. Further, the Government has taken actions including



- 9 -
improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants, the review and recent
implementation of revised pay scales, and increased emphasis on training -
which are important not only as steps towards gradually improving the quality
of public administration, but also as evidence of its awareness of the problem
and concern to do something about it. On the organizational side, the Govern-
ment is in the process of establishing planning cells in the main ministries
and agencies, and in strengthening the Planning Ministry. In this connection,
IDA is providing assistance both under specific projects and under the Tech-
nical Assistance Credits (409-BD and 622-BD).
27.       Of the 18 new project credits totalling US$291.3 million, 10credits
totalling US$173.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits devoted
to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of inputs,
including assured water, through quick yielding projects with low capital
intensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing so far,
the fundamental importance of improving agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending. However, in the shorter term, the rate of planned lending for
agriculture will be a function of progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies. At the same time,
greater efforts in institution building are being made through closer super-
vision and technical assistance where necessary. Some progress has already
been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects. In the next few months,
projects for agricultural research, drainage and flood control, fisheries and
a second rural development project are expected to be ready for consideration.
28.       Industry has been the major beneficiary of the six program credits
to date. For the reasons given in paragraphs 23-29 of my Report and Recom-
mendation on the Sixth Imports Program Credit (P-2155-BD, dated November 8,
1977), program lending to Bangladesh will continue to be required while efforts
are made to correct basic structural weaknesses in the economy. Nevertheless,
the share of program lending in total lending on a year to year basis is
planned to decline gradually during the next few years. The industrial sector
has also benefitted from DFC and small industry projects and a fertilizer pro-
duction project. A second small-scale industry project is expected to be
ready for presentation in the near future and, depending upon progress in the
Program Credit action programs, a jute industry balancing and modernization
project may also be considered. IFC is currently in the process of identi-
fying suitable investment opportunities.
29.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem gives this sector
an extremely high priority, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first IDA-supported population project is now making encouraging progress,
and a second population project is expected to be appraised shortly. Improved
availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural and technical training, and future operations,
while maintaining a similar basic emphasis, are expected to include assist-
ance for vocational and management education as well.



- 10 -
30.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify
projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and telecom-
munications are now under way. In this connection, particular emphasis will
be placed upon those possible projects which provide infrastructure for the
rural sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which
reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Such projects
could make a significant contribution towards supporting Bangladesh's devel-
opment efforts. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position,
IDA credits should cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all external
lenders are inhibited from achieving the levels of resource transfers appro-
priate to Bangladesh's economic circumstances by difficulties in the prepara-
tion and implementation of development projects. The Government's capacity
to carry out projects is constrained, inter-alia, by a low domestic savings
rate. In these circumstances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those
sectors - such as agricultural and rural development - where the percentage
of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency
expenditures is also justified.
31.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
32.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation
and implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to
contemplate higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is
the case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities
for making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the
people of Bangladesh. But progress is bound to be slow and will require
painstaking efforts, they are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE FOODGRAIN SECTOR
Production and Imports
33.       Bangladesh has a gross area of 35 million acres of which about
22.5 million acres are under cultivation, at a cropping intensity which has
averaged about 135% in recent years. Foodgrains play a dominant role in the
Bangladesh economy, making up roughly 30-35% of GDP. They constitute the
major crop of the subsistence farmer. In 1975/76 about 83% of the total
cropped area was under foodgrain crops. Rice accounts for about 98% of
total foodgrain production. Foodgrains are also a major element in the



- 11 -
national diet, with rice and wheat providing almost 85% of the calory and
70% of the protein intake of the population. During the 1960s, agricultural
production grew at an annual rate of about 2.5% and foodgrain production at
a rate of 2.4%. However, both lagged behind the population growth rate of
close to 3% and, as a result, foodgrain imports increased from less than
0.6 million tons in 1960/61 to over 1.5 million tons in 1969/70. A severe
drought combined with the disruptions caused by the 1971 civil strife sharply
reduced production in 1972/73 -- some 15% below the 1969/70 level --
necessitating food imports of 2.7 million tons. Despite a substantial re-
covery, production in 1973/74 and 1974/75 remained below the 1969/70 level.
In 1975/76, due to favorable weather conditions, improved availability of
fertilizers and unusually high foodgrain prices in 1974/75, foodgrain
production reached a new record, at about 13 million tons, which exceeded the
1969/70 level by some 10%. Nonetheless, Bangladesh still had to import
about 1.4 million tons of foodgrains in 1975/76. About 85% of the country's
foodgrain requirement in recent years has been met by domestic production,
though in bad crop years this proportion has been as low as 75%. Imports
have ranged from 1.4 million tons in 1975/76 to 2.7 million tons in 1972/73.
Despite consumer preferences for rice, wheat has dominated food imports
because of its lower price and greater availability on concessionary terms.
Substantial foodgrain imports are likely to continue for the foreseeable
future.
34.       Bangladesh has large areas of highly fertile deltaic soils, a cli-
mate suitable for year-round cropping, and abundant groundwater potential for
dry season irrigation. In recent years, the development of HYV of rice and
wheat, suitable for cultivation in large areas of Bangladesh both under
irrigated and rainfed conditions, has opened up the prospects of substantial
increases in production which could lead to greater self sufficiency. Given
these resources and the need to meet the problems posed by persistent food
defecits, the Government's agricultural and foodgrain development strategy
aims at: (i) increasing the area under irrigation; (ii) delivering a package
of key inputs such as HYV seeds, fertilizers and pesticides; (iii) strengthen-
ing extension, credit and other farmer support services; and (iv) operating a
domestic procurement and marketing system for foodgrain that would ensure
incentive prices to producers. Recent IDA agriculture sector projects support
these objectives.
35.       The marketing system in Bangladesh is largely traditional.  Although
most growers part with a proportion of their crop upon harvest, because of
their immediate need for cash for consumption and loan repayment and the lack
of storage facilities, only about 2-3 million tons, or some 20-30% of produc-
tion, actually enters the commercial market. Private traders, who are often
the source of farmer credit, and who rent land to sharecroppers, dominate the
market system. Their operations, however, lack adequate storage and infesta-
tion control facilities; losses are high. Farmer co-operatives are being
encouraged to market paddy, but their operations are constrained by insuffi-
cient technical knowledge and trained personnel, and the lack of physical
facilities required for an efficient marketing operation.



- 12 -
Food Policy
36.       Discussions on food policy within the Bangladesh Aid Group have
focused on the need for reforms in the distribution system and a strengthen-
ing of the domestic procurement effort, along the following lines. The
ration system should be restructured by limiting access to it to the lower
income groups and to the vulnerable in emergency situations. Parallel with
the introduction of changes in the ration system, the Government would have
to intervene in the market to ensure stability in food prices throughout
the year for the increased number of people buying food in the open market.
To that end the Government should expand its open market operations. The
price of foodgrains offered by Government should be adjusted to cover at
least the costs to the Government, and to allow for markups. At present
food subsidies represent a heavy burden on the budget. The benefits of the
subsidy accrue not only to those most in need. While there should be a
move towards fuller recovery of food costs and a narrowing of the margin
between the official sales price under the ration system and free market
prices, there could be a justification for retaining an element of subsidy
on food prices distributed through the ration system once that system had
been restructured to focus on the needy and vulnerable groups. Procurement
administration should also be streamlined. The procurement price, which
should be announced well ahead of the procurement drive, should be calculated
so as to assure the farmer of an adequate incentive to use more inputs and
to raise his productivity. To effectively support the procurement price,
the Government should have at its disposal sufficient funds to purchase the
required amounts and adequate facilities to stockpile without excessive
losses. To facilitate the introduction of changes in the distribution sys-
tem and, in particular, to ensure that a large open market operation could
be managed with continuity and without risk of failure in the face of un-
expected shortfalls in the domestic crop, the Government would need a large
stock on hand and adequate assurances of supply from abroad. These recom-
mendations were made by an IDA Food Policy Review Mission which visited
Bangladesh in February 1977. The mission's report ("Bangladesh: Food Policy
Review", Report No. 1764a-BD dated December 12, 1977) was distributed to
the Aid Group on December 19, 1977, and discussed among members of the Aid
Group at a special meeting on Food Aid convened in Washington on January 19,
1978 under the Chairmanship of the World Bank.
37.       Public marketing of foodgrains in Bangladesh since the Bengal famine
of 1943 has focussed on: (i) ensuring the supply of foodgrains to urban areas
especially in times of poor crops and high prices; (ii) supplying foodgrains
to Government employees at subsidized prices; and (iii) providing low-priced
foodgrain to those in need. Imports (primarily wheat) and domestic procure-
ment (rice) were the two methods of supplying grain to the ration system.
With large amounts of food aid being available on concessionary terms, however,
domestic procurement received low priority until 1975/76, when 400,000 tons
were procured. Procurement prices were not set sufficiently high so that
procurement had often to be undertaken compulsorily, causing widespread bitter-
ness among farmers. The Government's procurement effort was also inadequately
organized, giving private traders a strong bargaining position in the market.
Unlike Government procurement agents they were able to pay cash, and in



- 13 -
many cases were able to advance credit to producers and rent land to share-
croppers. Large margins have existed between farmgate and consumer prices
because of difficulties faced by farmers in the processing, storing and trans-
portation of their grain and because of various market imperfections. Even
in years of relatively good crops, average farmgate prices remained below
official procurement prices, with significant regional and seasonal varia-
tions, the differences often accruing to traders. Low farmgate prices offered
little incentive to farmers to invest in yield-increasing technologies.
38.       To stimulate production and raise farmer incomes the Government
has, since 1974, operated a farmgate price support program. Its impact, how-
ever, has been limited, although there has been some improvement in 1977/78.
Efforts to expand the Government program have been constrained inter alia,
by a scarcity of strategically located storage and pest control facilities in
surplus areas, which limited farmer access; slow purchase and payments; staff-
ing and organizational problems; and the application of stringent grain mois-
ture requirements in an attempt to reduce losses. Recently, however, the
Government has emphasized procurement not only as a means of supplying food-
grains to urban areas, but also as a farmgate price support mechanism. Steps
taken include: the announcement of an increased procurement price well ahead
of the procurement drive; the opening of 100 additional procurement centers;
the simplification of procurement procedures; and the relaxation of quality
requirements of offerings. The measures recently taken by the Government to
strengthen its procurement effort are beginning to have effect in raising
farmgate prices. They are in line with the recommendations of this project
and of the IDA Food Policy Review Mission mentioned above.
39.       The impact of the Government's measures on price depends not only
on the procurement effort, but also on the system of grain distribution. Pro-
cured grain is distributed through a rationing program which does not always
benefit those most in need. Moreover, ration prices have been well below
prices paid by consumers with the result that domestic procurement involves
significant budgetary support. However, the Government is committed to
reducing subsidies and ration shop prices have been gradually raised. At
present they are about 75% of free market prices. The Food Policy Review
recommended that the ration system be modified with greater emphasis on open
market operations to distribute the higher stock levels built up through pro-
curement. The Government has taken some steps in this direction such as
increasing the ration price of rice and wheat, and changing the ratio of
ration off-takes of wheat relative to rice. The measures taken so far have
not however placed greater reliance on open market operations.
IDA Assistance to Foodgrain Storage
40.       In conjunction with Sweden, IDA financed the First Storage Project
(Credit 381-BD) which included the construction of four silos with a capacity
of 232,000 tons for storing imported foodgrains. Silo construction was vir-
tually complete by 1971 and the storage and transhipment facilities financed



- 14 -
under the project played an important role in the foodgrain emergency of 1971/
72. Thereafter the silos deteriorated due to weak management and lack of
maintenance. In 1974, with assistance from IDA's Resident Mission, the Govern-
ment drew up and embarked on an action program to improve silo operations in-
cluding in particular filling a substantial number of staff vacancies. In
addition, consultants financed under the First Technical Assistance Credit
(409-BD) assisted in improving operating procedures and training. Significant
improvement in project operations occurred and the project was completed by
June 30, 1977. A Project Completion Report is under preparation. The facil-
ities constructed under the project have assisted the Government in maintain-
ing a timely flow of foodgrain imports into Bangladesh. The imports have been
particularly crucial after poor harvests and calamities. In addition to phy-
sical facilities, the First Foodgrain Storage Project financed a study of
Bangladesh's future foodgrain.requirements, which was completed in December
1975. The proposed Second Foodgrain Storage Project is based on discussions
with the Government concerning this study's findings, and its objectives are
consistent with the findings of the recent IDA Food Policy Review Mission
(paragraph 36).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was appraised in April/May 1977.  Negotiations for the
proposed credit took place in Washington in December 1977. Attached as Annex
III is a supplementary project data sheet. A project map is also attached.
Project Description
42.       The primary objective of the project would be to provide additional
grain storage and procurement facilities in order to permit improvements in
the Government's domestic procurement program. It would include the provision
of 145,000 tons of additional storage capacity at about 150 existing or new
sites in the six major rice producing districts which would be the area of
project concentration. These districts in Northern Bangladesh produce about
45% of total domestic foodgrain production and have the greatest potential
for streamlining procurement. Although the area provides some 65% of the
domestic procurement, it contains only 28% of Government-owned storage facil-
ities, and additional storage facilities are required to support the procure-
ment effort. In addition the project would finance rehabilitation of 25,000
tons of delapidated storage facilities. These additions to storage capacity
would facilitate farmer access to Government procurement facilities and the
subsequent movement of procured stock, and reduce grain storage losses by re-
ducing present dependence on sub-standard storage facilities. Weighing and
testing equipment and mechanical drying facilities would be provided to improve
the procurement system. To strengthen grain inspection and pest control
operations, equipment and transportation would be provided and a new foodgrain
testing laboratory established. In addition, 20,000 tons of capacity would
be constructed outside the area of project concentration to facilitate the
provision of relief food supplies in emergency situations to selected flood
or cyclone prone areas.



- 15 -
43.       A pilot project to develop the marketing potential of selected Thana
Central Cooperative Associations (TCCA) would be established. Ten man years
of technical assistance would be financed in engineering, pest control train-
ing, paddy drying and procurement systems, and studies for the evaluation of
project benefits. A study of the private sector storage system, which handles
70-80% of marketed production, would be undertaken to identify constraints
and investment needs (Section 3.21 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
A Monitoring Cell would be established within the Ministry of Food to improve
the performance of the Directorate of Food (Section 3.03 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
44.       The project would meet the Government's storage requirements in
the project core area for at least the next four years, increasing the
Ministry of Food's capacity to procure to a total of 400,000-500,000 tons in
the project area. Although additional storage will be required by the mid-
1980s, it is considered prudent to limit new construction to the levels
planned under the project until improvements in the procurement system have
been made and grower response tested. During negotiations the Government
agreed to inform IDA of any proposed construction of foodgrain storage in
addition to that provided under the project in the six project districts,
and it would undertake such construction only if it does not adversely affect
the utilization of project facilities (Section 3.11 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Construction of godowns and all ancillary facilities would
be standardized, and would be sited at locations agreed with IDA (Section
3.12 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       Temporary procurement centers and godowns would be equipped with
weighing scales, moisture meters and testing sieves. Ministry of Food Chief
Inspectors and field officers would be equipped with vehicles to enable ade-
quate and regular supervision of the procurement effort. Mechanical drying
facilities would be provided at selected storage depots and suitable moisture
content standards applied.
46.       Pest control squads, which are needed to serve storage facilities
in the project area, would be equipped with vehicles and standardized equip-
ment. Inspection squads would be provided with sampling and measuring
equipment, and the frequency of inspection would increase.
47.       The project would provide equipment and facilities for the estab-
lishment of a foodgrain testing laboratory in the project area which would
operate under technical supervision of the existing laboratory at Dacca. The
laboratory's Chemist, who would be responsible for its establishment, would
be appointed prior to disbursements being made against expenditures for the
laboratory (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
48.       Requirements for trained staff would be met through a field training
program involving operators, spraymen, godown managers and inspectors. The
project would provide two man years of quality control expertise, three
equipped training vans and training costs for about 600 man weeks of field



- 16 -
training and demonstration sessions to which private sector and TCCA partici-
pants would also be invited. The project training program would be complemen-
tary to ongoing efforts financed by the United Kingdom but would focus on
field training in the project area. The Ministry of Food would coordinate
both programs.
49.       The project would initiate a pilot program through the Government's
Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) to develop the marketing potential
of ten selected TCCAs. Selected TCCAs would already have storage facilities.
Consequently, investment needs for them would be small, consisting of moisture
meters, analysis equipment, weigh scales and 10 motorcycles for supervising
project officers. Assurances have been obtained that a day of the week would
be fixed for purchase solely from the TCCAs participating in the pilot project,
and for those subsequently adopting the model developed (Section 3.14 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Alternatives to be studied and future
phases of the program would be monitored by the procurement system consultant.
Technical Assistance
50.     - The project would provide ten man years of technical assistance
costing an average of about US$7,000 per man month. Specific areas of
assistance, which would be recruited internationally, would include:
(a) an engineering consultant for four years to assist with
contractor prequalification, tender evaluation and work
supervision, and advise on design and construction
methods;
(b) two man-years of pest control expertise to assist with
training of field staff;
(c) four man-years of consultancy in procurement and drying systems
to assist with the streamlining of the procurement system,
the operation and evaluation of mechanical dryers, and the
training of dryer operators and procurement officers.
51.       All consultants would be provided with vehicles and would be
assisted by qualified counterparts. They would have qualifications, and
would be recruited under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section
3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Recruitment of the pro-
curement and drying system specialist and of the engineering consultant
would be conditions of disbursement against expenditures on civil works
(Schedule 1 paragraph 4(b) (ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
52.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$40.0 mil-
lion (including about US$7.2 million in taxes and duties) with a foreign ex-
change component of about US$11.7 million. The proposed US$25 million IDA
credit would finance all the foreign exchange costs and US$13.3 million of
local costs, or about 75% of project costs net of taxes and duties. The Gov-
ernment would contribute US$15.0 million to the project.



- 17 -
53.       Estimates are based on mid-1977 prices for construction.  A physical
contingency of 5% has been applied to godown construction and dryer civil
works costs to allow for site-specific variations. Physical contingencies are
not needed for other items. Price contingencies have been applied to all items
on the following basis: for civil works, 9% per annum until 1979 and 8% there-
after; for equipment and vehicles, 7.5% until 1979 and 7% thereafter. Con-
tinge&cies average 20% of total costs.
Project Implementation
54.       A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Food would
be established, headed by the Director-General, Food (Section 3.02 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The PIU would be administratively self-
contained to carry out the following functions:
(a) manage the project fund, prepare annual construction
plans and handle project-financed procurement (other
than godown construction);
(b) handle recruitment of pest control and paddy drying and
procurement consultants; and
(c) prepare progress reports on the project.
A staffing plan for, and functions of, the PIU were agreed during negotiations
(part A of Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement), and its for-
mal establishment is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       Responsibility for godown construction and rehabilitation would rest
with a Project Engineering and Construction Unit (PECU) to be established with-
in the Public Works Department (PWD) (Section 3.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The PWD has built almost all the existing godowns owned
by Ministry of Food. The PECU would be headed by a project construction man-
ager of the rank of Additional or Deputy Chief Engineer. It would have the
necessary complement of engineering and supervisory staff at its Dacca Head-
quarters, and PWD's field organization would be strengthened. The establish-
ment of PECU and the appointment of its construction manager would be a con-
dition of credit effectiveness, while full staffing of the PECU in accordance
with a plan satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of disbursement against
civil works items financed under the proposed credit (Section 5.01(d) and
Schedule I, paragraph 4(b) (i) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
In order to start construction without delay, suitable locations for 70
godowns have been agreed, together with a detailed plan for the first year
of project implementation. For 20 of these locations, suitable sites will
have been selected and land acquisition completed prior to credit effective-
ness (Section 5.01(f) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Maintenance
of all project godowns would be the responsibility of the PWD (Section 4.03
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
56.       A Project Steering Committee (PSC), with a composition and functions
that were agreed during negotiations, will be established under the Secretary
of Food prior to credit effectiveness (Sections 3.05 and 5.01(e) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). It would review and ensure satisfactory co-
operation among the agencies charged with implementation of the project.
It would include Joint Secretaries of the Ministries of Food, Agriculture,
and Finance; the Director General, Food; the Chief Engineer, Public Works; the
Project Construction Manager; a representative from the Bangladesh Bank; and
the Director of the IRDP (part D of Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). A quarterly progress report prepared by the PIU would form the
basis for the PSC discussions.
Foodgrain Procurement Methods
57.       Effective coordination between the Ministry of Food and other Gov-
ernment field organizations would be crucial for the success of the enlarged
domestic procurement effort. A district food coordination sub-committee would
function in each of the project districts comprising the existing district
coordination committee headed by the Deputy Commissioner with, in addition,
representation from the Ministry of Food, the PWD executing engineer, the
district managers of commercial banks, the district agriculture officer and
the IRDP project director (in the TCCA pilot project area).
58.       The continuation of improvements, already initiated, in methods of
operation of the procurement program would be needed to reap full benefits
of the project's investments. To facilitate farmer access the new temporary
procurement centers would be located close to primary markets. The provision
of strategically located storage would permit grain procurement to continue
uninterrupted by difficulties in movement. The Ministry of Food would con-
tinue its current practice of using transport contractors selected through
competitive bidding to move foodgrain stock.
59.       In order to increase competition among foodgrain traders purchasing
grain in primary level markets, the number of authorized grain dealers would
be increased (Section 3.17 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Grain
procurement activities would start immediately post harvest, and procurement
prices would be announced at least one month before planting. The waiting
period at purchase points would be reduced by the establishment of two purchase
lines. Objective determination of quality would be possible using the testing
equipment.
60.       To enable sellers to receive quick payment, payment booths would
be established at all purchase points and two officials would be authorized
for signing payment certificates. The Government would ensure that adequate
security support is available to commercial banks to deliver cash to and
operate the booths. In addition, procurement procedures would need to be
continually reviewed, and assurances were obtained that the Government would
take all necessary measures to: (a) minimize congestion at procurement points;
(b) ensure expeditious payment; (c) simplify purchase quality standards; and
(d) provide appropriate alternatives in case of failure of normal transport
arrangements (Section 3.16 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). As-
surances were also obtained that procurement prices would be maintained at



- 19 -
levels which ensure adequate incentives for growers to increase production
through the use of new seed, fertilizer and irrigation (Section 3.18 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Over the past three years considerable experience has been gained
in the operation of the payment system.  In order to learn from this exper-
ience and to strengthen the payment system further to cope with increased
procurement, the Government would constitute a suitable team to review the
entire payment system, the review to be completed no later than October 31,
1978. The terms of reference for this review were agreed during negotiations
(Section 3.19 and Schedule 5 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
62.       A Planning Cell has been established to assist the Ministry of Food
in the formulation of long term plans and policies for the foodgrain sector
and would be strengthened with the appointment of a research officer and an
economist (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In addi-
tion, a Monitoring Cell would be established within the Ministry of Food to:
(a) collect and review all appropriate operating and cost
information;
(b) establish internal reporting and review systems;
(c) analyse data, and make specific recommendations for
increasing cost effectiveness; and
(d) prepare the Annual Operational Report of the Direc-
torate General, Food which would include an Annual
Operating Plan, covering the country wide operations
of the Directorate of Food.
63.       The Chief of the Monitoring Cell would report directly to the
Director General, Food. The Cell, whose staffing and functions were agreed
during negotiations, would be established by October 31, 1978 (Section 3.03
and part B of Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
64.       Evaluation of the project would focus on determination of the impact
on farmgate prices and on Ministry of Food operating efficiency including
storage utilization and losses. Consultants would be recruited to design
and assist in the implementation of a suitable continuous farmgate price
monitoring system. It has been agreed that a suitable consultant would be
recruited by October 31, 1978 (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Within six months of the Closing Date of the proposed IDA Credit
the Government will submit a Project Completion Report to IDA which will
analyze the operation of the Project, its costs and benefits and the respec-
tive performances of the Government and IDA in carrying out the Project
(Section 3.09(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
Procurement
65.       Civil works contracts amounting to about US$29.5 million would be
dispersed over about 200 sites in at least 10 districts, and would also be
spread over four years. Each contract would be small (under US$150,000).
Designs would be simple and construction techniques labour intensive. Such
contracts would not be suitable for international competitive bidding and
would be advertised locally. Prequalification of contractors would be re-
quired. Although PWD's contracting procedures are generally satisfactory,
changes in performance bonding and warranties would be required. Project
requirements of imported construction materials would be too small to justify
a separate tender for the project. Bidders for civil works contracts would
have the option to bid based on self-procured materials or materials made
available to contractors by PWD from its stocks. Project use of PWD's im-
ported stocks would be replenished by normal commercial imports, not otherwise
financed by foreign assistance using international shopping under procedures
satisfactory to IDA.
66.       Vehicles (US$1.25 million) and pest control, drying, and weighing
equipment (US$5.0 million) would be procured after international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of
the CIF price of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is
less, would be extended to local manufacturers. Procurement of off-the-shelf
imported items costing less than US$10,000 CIF would be by prudent shopping
based on prices from at least three suppliers. Such purchases would be limited
to a total of US$500,000. The balance of project expenditures would consist
of technical assistance (US$1.1 M), local training (US$0.5 M), evaluation
studies and the monitoring and planning cell (US$0.1 M), land acquisition
(US$0.25 M) and engineering (US$2.3 M).
67.       To ensure prompt availability of local currency financing, a con-
dition of effectiveness would be the establishment and initial funding of
two project funds, one to be operated by the PIU, and the other by PECU, for
making local currency payments to suppliers and consultants as well as for
local training (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Assurances have been obtained that the project funds would be replenished
quarterly to maintain beginning-of-the-quarter levels of at least Tk 2 million
and Tk 5 million respectively plus such additional amounts, as deemed necessary
by the PIU and PECU (Section 3.20 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Project budget has been approved by the Planning Commission; it would be a
condition of effectiveness that the budget had been approved by the Executive
Committee of the Government's National Economic Council (Section 5.01(a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
68.       Disbursement under the proposed credit would extend over four
years for:



- 21 -
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported vehicles,
equipment and spares or 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) for locally manufactured goods,
or 60% of local expenditures for other locally pro-
cured goods;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported construction
materials used by the project, and 65% of local expend-
itures for all civil works, including ancillaries and
power, and engineering;
(c) 100% of the cost of technical assistance project studies
and training;
(d)  80% of operating expenditures for the PIU, Monitoring
Cell and Planning Cell.
69.       All disbursements would require full documentation except for con-
tracts below US$10,000 (subject to a maximum of US$500,000) for which details
of bid evaluations would be retained by the PIU for field inspection by IDA.
Disbursements against civil works would require a copy of the certificate of
work completion approved by the project construction manager, co-signed by
the engineering consultant.
70.       Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that the PIU and
the PECU would maintain separate accounts of expenditures made under the
project. Auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed to audit project
accounts (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Audited
accounts would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal
year.
Benefits, Justification and Risk
71.       The principal quantifiable benefits resulting from the project would
be the savings in foodgrains resulting from reduced losses in godowns to be
constructed or rehabilitated under the project. Losses would also be reduced
by improvements in pest control and paddy drying operations. About 19,000
tons of foodgrain valued at about US$6.0 million, would be saved annually. An
indirect and unquantifiable benefit stemming from the project would be that by
enabling the Ministry of Food to increase its levels of grain procurement at
guaranteed incentive prices, the project would increase the income of farmers
and, in particular, of small scale farmers, who are now often forced to sell
in the immediate post-harvest period, when commercial purchasers have maximum
leverage. This would encourage farmers to increase production of foodgrains
by reducing risks and adding to the resources available for investment in
improved technologies. Other benefits due to the project would be the expe-
rience gained in paddy drying and in the development of cooperative grain
marketing. In addition, Government response to disaster relief would be
facilitated by the provision of storage in the flood or cyclone prone areas
of Bangladesh which would benefit about 150,000 farmer households.



- 22 -
72.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 15% for the go-
down construction component, the cost of which is US$25 million; 24% for
the paddy drying component, the cost of which is US$900,000; and above 50%
for the pest control component, the cost of which is US$600,000. The average
economic rate of return on these components, which account for 66% of total
project costs,is estimated to be 21%.
73.       A risk facing the project is that increases in the supply of grain
in the project area would be inadequate to permit economic employment of those
project facilities that constitute a net increase in storage space available
to the Ministry of Food. However, about 60% of the storage facilities to be
constructed under the project would replace marginal facilities which are cur-
rently hired by the Ministry of Food and basically unsuitable for grain storage.
Underutilization would occur only if the Government did not succeed in raising
foodgrain procurement in the project area by 35% over 1975/76 levels within the
next five years. The probability of the project facilities not being fully
utilized, either through disappointing production in the project area, or
through inefficiency in procurement, is not considered large, especially in
view of the Government's determination to increase domestic production and
procurement. By 1981, the project would increase the storage capacity avail-
able to the Ministry of Food to about 60% of estimated mid-1980s potential
if the Government continues to strengthen its procurement efforts. A sensitiv-
ity analysis shows that a delay of four years in reaching target production
levels would reduce the overall return to 17%, assuming that surplus storage
facilities would remain idle during this period.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
75.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness of the credit (Section 5.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement) are:
(a) the approval of the project budget by the Executive
Committee of the National Economic Council;
(b) the establishment of the PIU and PECU project funds with
initial contributions of Tk 2 M and Tk 5 M respectively;
(c) the establishment of the PSC, PIU, PECU with organizations,
functions and responsibilities agreedwith IDA; and
(d) the acquisition of land for at least 20 sites out of 35
locations inspected by PECU.



- 23 -
Special conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) against expenditures for the new testing laboratory,
that the Chemist for the laboratory has been appointed;
(b) against expenditures for civil works, that PECU has been
staffed according to a plan satisfactory to IDA and the
project engineering consultant and the procurement and
paddy drying consultant have been appointed.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President



-24-
ANNEX I
BANGLADESH          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ------------------------------------------------
---------------                                  BANGLIDESH                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      144.0                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      97.1                       1960       15t0   ESTIMATE           BURMA          THAILAND       MALAYSIA***
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                      50.0*     80.0*   110.0 *La             70.0*      210.0*      440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MtLLION)           53.9       70.8       80.4/a             27.0        36.3        10.8
PER SOUARE KM.                      374.0      492.0     558. Oa              40.0        71.0       33.o
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       566.0      730.0     828.  _             253.0      263.0        185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         49.8       50.3      49.5                41.3        44.3       42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.2       22.9      28.1                19.3        13.7        12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..      140.0     130.0                  ..       80.0        40.8/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       38.7       43.3      35.8                47.5       55.5        56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5        3.1         *-                2.7         3.2        2.6/a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (x)
TOTAL                                 2.7        2.8       2.1                 2.2         3.1        2.9
URBAN                                  *-        6.2       7.4                 3.7         4.9        3.2
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           4.8        6.4        8.8               19.9        15.0        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       44.7         ..      45.2                40.0       45.1        44.7/a
15 TO 84 YEARS                      sBo./a        *-      49.1 /b             57.0       51. 8       52.1 I
65 YEARS AND OVER                     5.2 '       ..       5.77F               3.0         3.1        3.27a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1,0         ..        1.0                0.8         0.9         o.9/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               16/b        ..        1.4/C              1.1/a       1.1/a       I.767
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..      133.0/a               ..      470.0       222.2
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..        4.7/ag              ..        10.0        8.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TWOUSANO)        19400.0  24500.0  26200.9                10920.0    16700.0 /b  2900.0/a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          87.0      86.0      78.0                70.0       79.0        43. d
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)            .-         *-       15.0/d               . .         .O. 6,              ,b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            18,3 /c   16.7 /a       ..                 ..        22.0 /C    28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            44.5 ff   42.3 ra       *-                 ,-        51.1 7     56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             8.9 I7     7.9 7       ..                 ..        5.6 7       3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           1'7.9 7    19.6         ..                  ..       14.37C       1 .2
DISTRIBUTIfin OF LAND OWNERSHIP
=______ ______________________
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             .-       34.0 /b    ..                   *-
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS           ..        1.0 7F      ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            10000.0/d 7600.01C         ..             8970.0      7970.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   i10000.07.a72030.0 E68390.0/e                 7540.0 /b  6650.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         11000.0/-  8120.0 t  7120.0-              1200.0      890.0       270.0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)           ..       B8.0/e    92.0               101.0       103.0       110.0 /c
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                ..         ..      40.0                49.0       52.0        49.0 7?
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..         ..        ..                13.0/C      17.0/d     20.0 -/
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..         ..                 . .         .          5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       42.0 /f   5o.o /f   71.0                111.0        81.0       89.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      B.0 71   15.0 71   25.0                 21.0        16.0       34. 07
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0       10.0      10.0                10.0        12.0       13.0/a
VOCATIONA  ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                       ..        1.0        ,,                 0.8        14.0 /e     3.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                   ..        ..       23.0                 ..        79.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         .-         ..                 ..          ..         2.3/a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHnU7
PIPED WATER (X)                        ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..       65.0 /a.d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ,.         ..         ..                 ..          ..       43.0 /a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..        30.0 /a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           ..        6.0                          15.0        78.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             ..       0.4       0.4/f               1.0         5.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            4.0       20.0      22.0                22.0       124.0       382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 ..       0.1        0.2                0.6         1.0         4.0
S     NOTES-------------------------------------- - ___________________________________________________ AN- DE I I I N-
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONs ON REVERSE



- 25 -
ANNEX I
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to soy year between 1959 sod 1961, for 1970 betwoen 1968 and 1970, end for Most Roceot Estimate beween
1973 cod 1975.
*GNP per capita date are basod on the World Bank AtleS methodology (1974-76 basis).
T0 The 1970-75 population growth rste is abnormally low due to the effects of the war of independence and mass population nOvemento acroso the
borders doring that period.  Presently, the overage population growth rote is ontinoted at 2.8% per annum.
050   Selection of Malsysia on o'. 'aective country in based on MalaysOi'O suc-e-s in naintoining a high rate of economic growth and adeqoate  level
of welfare conc.rrentty  wi-  --orac ying its economic -       truc-ur.
BaGLADESH    1960    /a  Age grasp 15-59 and 60 and over reepec-tivly;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 end 60 and over to total labor force;
/c  1963-64;    /d  Registersd not o11 precticing in the country;    In  -ove-nment hospital establislmencs only;
7?  Appro-inate enrollment es percentage of population in 6-10 and 11-I  age groups respectively.
1970    /s  1966-67,    /b  1967-68;    /c  Registered not all prccticing in the country;                /d  Government hoepitl establishnents
only;    /a  Average 1969-71;    If  Appr-i-mato enrollment on percentage of popol-tion in 6-10 and 11-15 age groupo
respectively.
MOST RECENT EST7IATE:    /a  1976;    /b  Age group 15-59 and 60 and over respeotively;                 /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 60
and over tc total labor force;    /d  esinly uomnploysd workers seeking their firct job;    /e  Including
nidwive.;    /f  1972;    La  Percent of female population.
BUREA          1970    Is  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over tc  total labor force;    /b  Peroonnel in government services only;
/c 1964-66.
TRAILOND        1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and av-r to oconomically action population ago 11 yearn and over;    /b  Econrically
actioe population age 11 yasre and over;    /c  Rural only;    /d  1964-66;    /e  Public school., which includes
technical edu..tion at the pant-secandory level.
MALAYSIA        1970    Ia  West Malaysia;    /b  Registered applicants for work             /c  1964-66;    /d  Piped water Inoide
Rll, October 6, 1977
DEP7NITTI0N   F oSOCAL INDICATORS
Lnd Arcs (thou be2)                                                                         Ponulation per nursing nerson - Population dicided by number of practicing
Total - Total surfacs a-eo  comprin.ig land ares and inland watson                             male sod female gradato nurses, "tr-ined' or 'certified` nur-ee, aed
Agcr. - Most renent eetimate of agriculturl coe1 aced temporarily or pens-                   *snili-ry persoenel with tr-ining or experienne
meetly for crops, pastce-s, mafrkt 6 kitchen gardens or to lie fsllo.                      Population per hospital bed - Popul-tion divided by numbsr of ho-pital beds
Ivslloble in publin and privnte g.n.er -1nd specicli'ed hoapiral and
IblP per nanito (US$) - GNP per noPit.  setits- at ocurrent market prices,                     rehabilitation c_oters; oxtlode.  n_rsiag heesnd satabliciments for
-alolated by came conversion mcthod as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basin);                    cs todel and presentive cars
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Per cdcita npl  of fonid  f7. of renuraseents) - Computed fron energy
equivalet of net food supplies ceailable ie canntry per capita par dsy;
Ponulatios  and vital statistini                                                               avaZllble supplies comprise donestic prodoctian, imports Ies separts, and
poolatlon  feEd-year millioni    As of JnIy first:  fc eat availoble, b   verng                changes it  stack; net supplies exclude animal feed, ceeds, quattities used
of two nod-yar estimates; 1160, 1970 and 1975 dat,                                           in fond processieg end leases in distribution; requirments were estia ted
by FAO b.sed on physiological nsedn for normal activity and health nonsid-
Pno.larion density - par quamr  kb  - Rid-year popultion per *qvarn kilosstsr                  ening environmental tempes-tur-, body weights, age snd san disttibotions of
(100 hentares) of total ares,                                                               popultion, end allowing 107, for waste at houaehold level.
Pseolation densIty - p-r *ovare be of sgria  lend - Gompot-d as above for                    Per nseit. su-nly of Protein (orcec per day) - Protein conte-t of per ..pita
grnictturn. i ad only.                                                                       net oupply of food per day; nt supply of food is dfinead  c sbows; require-
rents for .11 conntries established by t1SDA Eco-nin Research Servties
Vital cratianlos                                                                               provide for a mini=um all.wanne of 60 grase of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rte pear thonsad.  verage - Annual live birthe per thousand of                     20 grena of aniLml end pulse proteti, of whibh 10 grams should be aeimal
mid-year popol-tion; ten-yn-r  rithanetio ayersges  Dding in 1960 and 1970,                  prot-in; these etendards ac-  lower them those of 75 grams of total protein
cod five-year aernge ending in 1975 for most recent estimte,                                 and 23 gr   of *nimal protein as an averags fur the  onrld, proponed by FA0
Cruds death rate per thousand, average - Amnd-  deaths per thor-nod of mid-year                in the Third World Food Surey.
papolatiom; ten-year arithestin averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and give-                 per ca pita c"otin sporel  iron animal and polee - Protein supply of food
year avarage ending in 1971 for most rcnst estimate                                          derived from animnIc and poless in gons  per day
Infant mortality rsts (/thaou  - Annual deaths of infants onder one your of ago              Doath rate (/thou) ans 1-4 -  Annual do-thb  per tho-asnd in agn grasp 1-4
per theuasd live births.                                                                     years, to children in this age group; nuggotef t s an indicator of
Life snexetonny at birth  (yr-) - Average nunber of years of life remaining at                 malnutrition.
birth; usually five-yeor overages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 far develop-
ing no"ntris                                                                               Educatclu
froes.   reeprduction into - Average nonher of live d-ughtere a woman will bhar              Adilut-d enrollment ratio - primary school - Eorltment of a11 ag.e  as per-
in her norma1 reproductive period if she emperiencns present age-specific                    contage of prinary school-ego population; includea  htildrem  eged 6-11 years
fertility rats-;  -sually five-yeer averages anding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  bho  adjusted for different lengths of prim-ry education; for c-untries with
for developing countries                                                                     univer-al education, enrollment may emceed 1007 sinus same pup1la are below
Population Krowth rate (i) - total - Compamad annual growth e-te- of aid-year                  or above the official school  go.
population for 1950-60, 1961-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adluoted enrollment ratio - necondary anhool - Computed an above; aenondery
Population growth rate (%) - urban - Computed libe growth rate of total                        education requires at leant four years of epproved primary ietaructias;
pepulation; diff.rant definition  of urban areas may affect nmapoe-bctlty of                 providee general, vocational or tecear trsining insteuctiona for pupils
data amnog contrise.                                                                         of 12 to 17 peace of ago; corneap-d.en.  neurons are generally  nexloded.
Urban population (2 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; difforent                yars of schooling provided (fir t and second levoal) - Total yY..-  of
definition-  of orbon areas may effect comparability of data mmong councries. tcholing; at  -econdary level, vocational instruotion may be partially or
completely eatlded.
anne sLrucctuno  mrernset,l-uoocn in-cu years), working-age (15-64 yearn),                   Vonatm-nal enrolLment (7. of *ecmndary) - Vocational *nuticution-  include
and retired  (65 yeses and over) s percentages of old-year population                        technical, iodu tri-l or other pr-gr-mo which operate indepedeontly or as
Age dopee-d--y ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and oven to those                   depanrc-nto of  -econdary icutitution.
of ages 15 through 64                                                                      'dolt 11terac  rate (2) - Literate adolts (able to read and write) as per-
Eto.naic dep-ndenc-  ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and aver to                   cencoge of toral edult population aged 15 yearn sod  vnr.
the labor force in ago group of 15-64 year.
Family  Jlanniso- acseptcr  (cumulative. thaou  - Cullative number of  cceptors              h.ouuing
of birth-control devices under auspices of national family plaoniog program                persons peo  rno   (urban) - Average number of ponn-ns per ronm in ..oopiod
since ineption.                                                                              conventional dwell-igs in orban areas; dwellings ec lode non-permanent
family plan.ing -uer- (7 of married women) - Percentages of married  oomen at                  uccucturee and ucoccupled parts.
child-besriog age (15-44 yearn) who one birth-control de-i.es to all married               Occupled dwallino without piped water (7.) - 0c-upied conveetianal dwellings
w n in  a   age grp.                                                                          in urban   d rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all -ccepied dwellings.
P.neioy,aent                                           access  to elentricicy  (7 of oIl dwellimosS - Convonslonal dwelings with
Total labor tonrc  (th. and) - E-ofnomSally active persona, including cewd                      oleucnlto     ieItefof quaot    as percent of tot.a  dwellings in  rban ad
forces  nd  -nemployed bart scluding hbausoive-, studenct, etc; definition-                  rural areas.
In -asrifo srnionrricutare not                                            forpsarye        enrol dwelion   connocted to electricity  (7.) - Computed as abov-  for rural
Labor forte in agrinu-. r t!  t) - ogricu1toral labor fence fin fa rming, foretry,              dwo1llngs only.
h-ntiog and fishisg) as percentage of total labor force.
Lnneloved  i2 of labor force) - Sneeplayed are  -smally defined as persons who               Consumption
sen able ed willing to trke a jab, out of a job on a giveo day, r-oined out                R-dio receniver  (Peb r tho  pap) - 611 type. of receivers far  radio broadcasts
of a job, and .e.hing woch foa s *paifisd minion period not  -oceeding  -n-                  to goneral public per thoutsnd of population; exlIudes oslicensod receivers
wek; may not be c.-parable betweencountries duo to differect definitions                      in tountriesad in yearn when registration of radio sets was in effent;
of uoemployed end aorce of data, e.g , -aploymeet office stctiotion, sample                  data for retent years may not be comparable since mass cosntries abolished
sur.-y.,  -onpul-ry unemployment insur.on..                                                  lico  tusig.
P...                                ...rcas(.rto  00      inoegar cart coprise motorca.rs seating
Tense distribution - Percentage of prioste income (both In oseb and kind)                       aa. than eight pers     c>udeP r bhtnces, hearss sd  ilitary
recived by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 207, and poonsct 40h  of hones-                   vehicles.
holds,                                                                                      elctricity  (kwb/yr per cap) - Annual con-nPtion of indostrial, -oeseroial,
public sod pric-ce electrIity in kilowatt boors per ..pit., Ssnersllp
Disttibution  of laed  -nnrship -Percentages of ilad owned by wealthiest 107,                   b ased on pr-d-ci    dtec, without all sowace for lssea In gride bat allow-
and ponrest 10% of land owners                                                                itg for import- aed exports of electricity.
N-smert-  Ikefp  pr  tee-p) -Pee capita anua  nema- ption in bilograas
Health and Nutrition                                                                          Nwtitd fr   domestic  prductciu- plus n t Imports of  respritc.
Population per ebysician - Pepolatiom divided by number of practiciog
physicians qalified from  a medical school at university level



- 26 -                                                                ANNEX I
EDCONONIrC DEVEWp8ThTP DATA
(Aots  nmilions of U.S. dollars!
Av.
Actual            ~~~~~Estlmate4               1960-       1965-       1973-        1967 69 19 74/ 75 19761/77
Av.1967..69  1972/73  19 74/75          1975/76   1976/77                1965       1970        1977
NATIDXA,L ACCOIINMIn Constant                   1972- 973 Prilces & Exchange Pates           Av~erage Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of GDY
Gros, ioxsestic Prosueit             6,012     5,833     6,514             7,295      7,561  -4.7                       3.3        6.7        -R.       IT. 
l~inos from. Terms of Trade1 (a)        89          -      -117             -145       -148                                                      1.5     -1.6    -2.0
3ros3 Domestic Income                6,1-01    r7.M      r797             7i,1 50    7,413                 5.6         2.5        6.2         MTU.    1000      10.
Imprt  cloo. NFS)                  879       747       703               646        500               20,6         6.8        -7.4         14.4     11.0       6.7
Exports   (1 import capacity)    598             369        197              200         210               12,3      -14.6       -12.6          9.8       3.1      2.8
Re,source Gap                        -7-         378'        0               446         29                                                      4_67_93_
Consumption Expenditures            5,666      5,817    6,403              7,062      7,230                 5.7         3.6        5.6         92.9   100.1    97.6
Investment    "(cine. stocks)          714       394       499               534        473                13.3         8.8        6.7         12.9       7.8      7.4
Dome.stic Savings                      433        16         -6               88         183                4.3        10.0       81.0          6.8      -0.1      2.4
National Savings                       416        32         10              11.0        200                8.7        20.5       57.0           7.1      0.2       2,6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                               Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                  As Percent of TotaLl
Tmporets
Capital goods                         ..       lO         135              213         268                  ..                   25.7           .      16.8     28.6
Intermediate goods (Exclfuels)        .        176       386               336        250...                                    12.8           3. 0.4           26.7
Poulo and related materials
of' which:  Petroleum               ..        23       155               136        144                  ..                   49.8                   10.0     15.4
Consumption goods                  ,..~.       428        726              541        275                  .                     -6.6       ......      1.        3.
Total Merch. Tnports (cif)          5-47       72 7    1,402            1,266         937                                         8. 1                ioo.0   100.0
Exports
Primary products (earl, fulels)       .        145        119              156         168                  ..                    2.9                 40.9      42.0
Puels and related materials
of which: Petroleum
Mauatoe  goos                              195        239              225         243                  .,                    5,4        ___       59.1     58.0
Total Merh  Exots (fob)              481       340        358              381         400                                        3.810.                       100
Tour'ism and Border Traae
Merchandise Trade Indices                         Average 1972-73- 130
Export Price index                    61       100       133               109        ill...                                      2.4
Import Price Index                   52        100       215               195        189                  ...                   16.3
Terms of Trait Index                118        100        62                56         59                  ,                     11.7
Exports Volumer Codes               148        100        80               106        123                   ...                   3,9
VALUE AlDIED BY SECTOR              Annual Dots at 1972- 73Prices and Exchange Rates                   Average Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       3,542    3,403       3,712            4,078       4,140                               .         4.8          59      59        5
Industry and Mining                 420        412       466              527         567                  .                      798           7       7         8
Service                           2,050    1.848       2,4              2,333       2,504                  ..                     8.2        314       34        35
T'o tal                           6,012    5,663    6,324               6,938       7,211                                                     100     100       100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of GOP
TCent-ral Goverrsment)
Current Receipts                    3 17       280       469               775        877                  .                     34.2         5.3     7.2     11.2
Current Expenditures                365        364       419               600        686                                        16.8         6.1    6.4        8.7
Budgetary Savings                   4-48       -84       5-0              175         191I                                                  -0.8      0.8      2.5
Other Public Sector
Purli  Sector Investment            421       239        248               295        350                  .103                               7.0     3.8'     4 .'9
______-    - ______  -        ~~~~~~US $ million~
CIIRPTh,'C EPFPNDITIIRR DETAILS                 Actual      .               Estimated               DETAIL ONq                              At Av.    1972/73 P and ER
As 9, Total Current_Expend.)        1969/70  1972/73  1974/75         1975/76  1976/77            PUBLIC SECTOR                         9ijrst Plan    %/ of Total
Education                              ..        14.8      15.5         13.67    13-.3            INVESTMENT PROGRAM                      (19 73 /74   - 1977/78)
Ither Social Services                             4.0       4.2          4.4       4.2            Social Sectors                               758         15.3
Agriculture  and                                                                                  Agriculture                               1,303          26.4
Other Econmic Services                .        11.2        7. 2        6.8        6.7           Industry and Mining                        1,024         20.7
Admidnistration and Defense             .        67.4      68.1         68.8      68.9            Power                                        529         10.7
Other                                             2. 7      5.0          6.4        6.9           Transport and cosmsunications                802         16.3
Total Current Ex-oenditures                    100o.0     100o.0       100-.0    1-00.0           Other                                       524          10.8
_______________________________________________________________________________ TotaTotal pExpendiures44,940                       100.
SELECTED INDICATORS                                     1960-        1965-       1973-              FINANCOING
(Calculated from 5-year averaged data)                 1965         17           1976                  Domestic Borrowing                       784          15.9
Average ICOR                                             .           3.74        0.89                   Public Sector Savinigs                2,0,22         40.9
Import Elasticity                                        .          1.29         1.11                  Program aid counterpart               1,009           20.4
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                           .          0.22         0.05                  Foreigs Project Aid                   I1Z&25          22.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                                      0.35         0.05                   Total Pinancing                       4,940         100.0
LABCR PORCE AND                                    Total Labor Force                                     Value Added Per Worker (1972   73  Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                    In Millions          % of Total            1961 - 73           Sn U.S.Dollars        Percent of Aver: ge          19 70 - 73
1960/61    19 72/ 73 1960/61   1972/73  Growth Rate              1969/70   1972/73    1969/70   19 72,/73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                          16.1         20.5       85         78         2.0                 .,         166          ..76
Industry                              1.0          1.8        5          7         5.0                ..           29          .,        105
Service                               1.6          3.9       10        15          8.7                            484          ..        222
Total                                189          22        10         0            .                 48          217         100        10
not applicable- nil or negligible
not available                -  less than half the smsallest unit shown
Note: Pigures are on fiecAl year basis (July 1-Jose 30). Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan
/I     These are original plan targets.



ANNEX I
- 27 -
BALANiCE OF PAY5ENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at ourreot prisms)
Artual                              EstimAted            ProJectad           Average Annual Growth Rate
1969/70   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75             1975/76   1976/77          7                         1974 - 1978
SLMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Expurts (ino. NFS)                             515        369        339        35l               381        400            425                          5.8
lmDores (tool. NESS                           -639       -747       -958    -1.402            -1.290        -937        -1,274                           7.1
Resource EAlaore (X-M)                        -124       -378       -619    -1,044               -909       -537          -849                           8.2
Interest (oar)
Discos Ioves t0nt Income   I
Worker. Recituc-ce           I.                            45         10          7                 1          25            15                           -
Current Transfers (not)    I
Balance on Currest Accounts                    ..        -333 -T37                               -908       -512           -34                           6.2
Pricvte Discst I.vestEent
Officio) Capital Gronts                         .         482        204        397               236         258           340                         13.6
Public Sh1.T Loans
Minbursneot t.                                           70        297       527                578        314            476                         16.0
-Repaynents                                   .           _         -10        -25               -78        -21            -31
Net Diobuus-nt5                                ..          76        287        502               S00        293            445                         13.3
Other MILT  uos
bOnbrsnessests                               ..          . .       . .         . .              ..          ..
-Repas gents                                 __                                                                  
Net Dinbu-senetr                               ..           ..       ..          .
Capitol T-anactioun  u.o.i.                    ..        -205         78       334               122          33             91
Change in Net R-esrveu ( - - increase)         ..         -20         40      -196                S0         -72            -32                              Autual                      Rotiousc
Crres Reserves fe-d period)          .         :.         107         A7       673               213         285            317                  1971/72   1972/73   1974/75         197576   19767
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official  raunts & tract-Like                             514        150       369               360        DEBT AND  EBT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. 6 Disbursed            36        187        998         1,009      2,245
Public M6LT Loans                                                                                              I nterent on Public Debt             -          -           10            20         26
IBRD                                                     -            -       -                -            Repayments on Publiu Debt             -          -          25             67         21
IDA                                          ..          68          74      150              1B7           Total Public Dabt Serice              -          -          35             S1         47
Other Multilateral                                       11          17       07                22          Othes Debt Se_sic  (net)              ..         ..         ..
Governments                                             204         329      670              332           Total Debt Se.ice (net)               ..         ..         ..
Suppliers                                    ..          55          47       17                -
Flnassial I-stituticcs                        .                 -        _                       4        Burden on iRcrs Etrnings (T)
Bonds                                        .                                  
Public L.... n.e.i.                                       _           _                                     Public  ebt Bervice                   ..         ..        9.8          22.0       11.8
Total Public KhLT Loans                        ..         338         467      932               550          Total Debc Sevion                           ...
TDS+Direct Iuvest. Ins.              ..          ..
Aukual moAte OuiuaaAlus an Jurs 30, 1976
EXTERTAL DElT                                             finbursed Only            Percent                   Averuge Tassno of Public Debt
World Bank                                                   _c         ..          3.9
IA                                                          380                   21.0                       Int. as X Frior Tear  06D .D.                    ..        2.3            2.0       1.4
Ocher M.tltilateal                                            25                    1.4                       APror. us I Friur Year DODD           ..         ..        5.7            4.7       1.2
Gcosuneota                                                 1,250                   69.1
Suppli-                                                       90                    5.0                     IBED Deb  Out. h Ditbussed
Fi.nacial institutiono                                         9                    0.5                        ' us   Publis Debt 06D               -          -         5.5            3.0        2.4
Bondn                                                         -                                               -         Publis Debt Servio          -    -                -             1          1.7_0
Public cabin n-.  _.
TCual Public MHLT Debt                                     1,809                  100.0                     IDA Debt Out. 6 Dibtuesed
asherf Pub7iI  Debt  kiD          -         8.6       25.5           20.0       27.7
O~~~~h- M6LT D.bt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~              a  1Public Debt Snvio-             -          -         3.1           2.5         6.4
Short-Tern Debt (disb. .1IV)
cot applicable                         r - staff ettiaste
utn-. A-lable                 -       -   ril or negligible
iout aviloble separately bat          --   leun thb    hfbalf thn  -allest
torludod in total                          unit shoon
May 1977



- 28 -
ANNEX II
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of January 31. 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                 Purpose                      Amount  Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Seven Credits Fully Disbursed                                 326.1       -
339        1972     Cyclone Area Reconstruction (replaces
Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)             25.0      6.5
340        1972     Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970)             13.0      3.6
341        1972     Tubewells (replaces Credit No.
208-PAK of 1970)                        14.0      2.1
343        1972     Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)           7.3      0.9
353        1973     Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)              3.0      0.1
367        1973     Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)               7.0      0.7
368        1973     Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
replaces Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                   13.2      0.6
407        1973     Education (replaces Credit Nos.
49-PAK and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                   21.0      7.1
408        1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                25.0     12.3
409        1973     Technical Assistance                        4.0      1.3
410        1973     Cereal Seeds                                7.5      5.7
424        1973      Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation    8.7        1.9
487        1974      Second Telecommunications                 20.0     16.4
527        1975     Ashuganj Fertilizer                        33.0     21.4
533        1975      Population                                15.0     13.2
542        1975     Barisal Irrigation                         27.0     25.1
605        1976     Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.0     18.0



- 29 -
ANNEX II
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of January 31, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CON'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                      Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                 Purpose                     Amount  Undisbursed
621        1976     Agricultural and Rural Training          12.0        11.6
622        1976      Technical Assistance II                  7.5         6.8
631        1976      Rural Development                       16.0        15.8
632        1976      Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                  25.0        24.1
676        1977      Imports Program V                       75.0        32.8
724        1977      Shallow Tubewells                       16.0        16.0
725        1977     Muhuri Irrigation                        21.0        21.0
729        1977     Extension and Research                   10.0        10.0
735        1977      Inland Water Transport II                5.0         5.0*
752        1977      Imports Program VI                      75.0        75.0
765        1978      Jute                                    21.0        21.0*
SUBTOTAL                  875.3       376.1
Principal Repayment                                0.4
Effective Credits held by Association           874.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087       1975     Consolidation Loan                       54.9         0
TOTAL                  929.8       376.1
*   Not yet effective



- 30 -
ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Project performance has improved and, although still 2-1/2 years
behind schedule, it is no longer falling further behind. Following reevalua-
tion of the design, the cyclone shelter program is now moving ahead with 124
modified shelters expected to be completed between mid-and-end 1978.  Strength-
ening of the shelters already constructed will commence shortly. Arrangements
for supervision of shelter construction still need to be strengthened. Four of
the five primary roads are now finished with the fifth road scheduled for
completion in 1978. The IDA financed portion of the feeder road program is
nearing completion. Construction of towers for the telecommunications sub-
project is behind schedule but was to be completed by December 1977. The
fisheries subproject, including distribution of boats to groups of local
fishermen has been completed. Work on the repair or new construction of
inland water transport terminals is almost completed.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: April 30, 1978
The project should be completed by December 1978. Delays have been
due to major flooding, labor problems, shortages of materials, equipment,
breakdowns, ineffective management, and delays in provision of local funds.
While problems remain, substantial progress has been made recently both in
physical construction and agricultural extension. The main regulator is now
operational, although utilization of the irrigation works will be delayed
due to land acquisition problems (now resolved) which interfered with work
on irrigation channels. A four month extension of the Closing Date has been
agreed to allow additional time for project audits and proposals for the
recovery of water charges to be prepared. A further extension of the Closing
Date will be considered when these have been received.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-31 -                      ANNEX II
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: March 30, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Completion of the Project is expected within a year. About
90% of the wells under contract have now been drilled, and verticality prob-
lems have largely been corrected by the contractors. BADC has decided to
recontract for 285 wells not yet drilled. Pumphouse construction and engine/
pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. The agricultural development
component of the project, also behind schedule, has been incorporated in the
Extension and Research Project. Project audits are not being received in a
timely fashion. Arrangements for extending consultants' services have been
agreed. The Closing Date has been extended to March 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been
commissioned, two years behind schedule. The contract for the fourth micro-
wave system (which substitutes the coaxial cable system in the original
project) has been awarded together with contract for similar systems under
Credit 487-BD. This system is expected to be commissioned by June 1978.
The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973: Effective Date: May 14, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is administered by the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) and a consortium of commercial banks. In early
1976, the Closing Date was extended to March 31, 1977 to allow for disburse-
ments under outstanding letters of credit. To permit all credit funds to be
disbursed, a further extension of the Closing Date, from March 31, 1977 to
December 31, 1977 was agreed. A second project involving BSCIC and commercial
banks under revised institutional arrangements was appraised in July/August
1977.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: October 31, 1978
After very little movement during the first two years because of
organizational and procurement difficulties, the progress of work in the
past three years has been satisfactory and disbursements on the project are
expected to be completed by November 1978, some three years behind the



- 32 -
ANNEX II
schedule established in 1973. WASA has been in default of the financial
covenant (Section 4.03 (a) of the Credit Agreement dated April 9, 1973),
which stipulates that rates are to provide sufficient revenue to: (i)
cover operating expense, depreciation and interest; (ii) to meet repay-
ment of long-term debt to the extent that such repayments exceed deprecia-
tion charges; and (iii) finance normal extensions of the systems and pro-
vide a reasonable portion of the cost of future major extensions. GOB
approval of a tariff increase was given on November 3, 1977. This will
increase annual revenue by about 38 lakhs Taka and should, with other
measures being taken, provide Chittagong WASA with sufficient revenue to
enable it to meet the earnings covenant for FY78.  A fourth extension of
the Closing Date to October 31, 1978 was recently agreed.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973. Closing Date:
October 31, 1978
Project progress and the Dacca WASA's financial problems are similar
to those of Chittagong under Credit 367-BD above. A fourth extension of the
Closing Date to October 31, 1978 was recently agreed.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18,
1973; Effective Date: July 17, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30. 1977
The project, originally financed by US$19.2 million IDA Credit
No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit from the Kingdom of Sweden, was
almost completed at independence and 95% of the reactivated IDA and Swedish
credits was used for repaying the previous credits. Substantial delays oc-
curred in hiring consultants and in design and construction of ancilliary
civil works. In addition, there was serious deterioration in the silos
mechanical equipment due to inadequate maintenance and management, under
staffing in the Directorate of Silos and delays in ordering spare parts.
After January 1976, however, significant progress was made in accordance with
an action program agreed with IDA/SIDA, particularly in constructing ancillary
civil works and staffing the project agency; one silo was put back into opera-
tion, consulting services for a silo maintenance improvement program have been
obtained and jetty rehabilitation started in February 1977. The Association
agreed to a third extension of the Closing Date to September 30, 1977. The
project was completed on June 30, 1977 and a mission to prepare a project
completion report visited Bangladesh in February 1978.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
This project was originally financed by Credits 49-PAK and 98-PAK
and by December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had
been disbursed. Progress on the Agricultural University portion of the proj-
ect is about 30 months behind schedule due to initial difficulties in reaching



- 33 -
ANNEX II
agreement with the consultant architects on a revised contract and shortages
of building materials and delays in the preparation of equipment lists and
furniture designs. However, significant progress has been made beginning in
late 1976. The academic buildings now under construction are expected to
be completed by June 1978 and the remaining works by December 1979. The
University has taken steps to improve the relevance of its agricultural train-
ing and research programs to Bangladesh's practical problems in agricultural
and rural development but further progress in this direction is needed. The
technical education portion of the project is about 30 months behind schedule
due to past delays, but is expected to be completed by July, 1978. The
graduates are facing severe problems of unemployment and a committee has been
established to revise the curriculum to make it more relevant to job require-
ments.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Several project elements are now nearing completion, including the
Sitalakhya Bridge, ferry improvements and the Keane Bridge which was officially
opened in June 1977. However, the Feni bypass is still seriously behind
schedule and completion is unlikely before mid-1979. Construction of the
Roads and Highways Directorate building has commenced. An action program
calling for a review of project progress against agreed targets was estab-
lished for purposes of approving an extension of the Closing Date to
December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Contracts have been signed with consultants for thirteen sub-
projects amounting to about US$3.9 million. Completed studies have played
a key role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing. Due to delays
in initial commitment of credit funds, disbursements are 2 to 3 years behind
initial estimates. The Closing Date for this Credit was extended initially
by two years, to December 31, 1977 and a second extension, to December 31,
1978 was agreed recently to permit full disbursement of the credit.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Although the project is about 20 months behind schedule, implemen-
tat-on has improved considerably in recent months. Orders for farm machinery
and laboratory equipment have recently been placed. After contract negotia-
tions with the lowest bidder for the seed processing plants broke down,
proposals for simplification of plant design were agreed and tenders are now
being processed. After substantial initial delays, work is now proceeding
on improvements at the seed multiplication farms and production of seed,
especially wheat, is increasing. The Closing Date was recently extended to
December 31, 1979.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
was slow initially but credit proceeds are almost fully committed with 88% of
available funds disbursed. Under the Supplementary Credit, two used light-
erage tankers have been procured, necessary repairs and modifications have
been completed, and the tankers delivered to Chittagong. Delivery of pipes
for connecting the oil miooring to the ERL refinery has been delayed, but an
adjacent berth is being utilized in the meantime for unloading of crude oil.
Due to delays in the procurement of fenders, commencement of oil transfer
operations was delayed, and was finally attempted by the Bangladesh Shipping
Corporation (witlhout fenders and against the IDA-financed consultant's
advice) in July, 1977 during the monsoon. Both lighterage tankers were
damaged, one having to be taken out of service and replaced by a chartered
vessel. Additional technical assistance has been proposed to assist BSC,
which is expanding its fleet at a rate beyond its managerial, operational,
technical and crewing capabilities. This would require the Closing Date to
be extended by nine months to March 31, 1979, if the Credit is used to finance
this technical assistance.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project is about two years behind schedule due to delays in
procurement. About 30% of tthe Credit has so far been committed; the balance
is expected to be committed in 1978. About 60% of the appraisal targets for
local network expansion for first three years has been achieved. Work on
long-distance telephone exchanges has still to commence. A Telegraph and
Telephone Board has been established, a year behind schedule. Consultants
financed under the Credit are assisting the T&T Board in establishing a
commercial accounting system and valuation of assets.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuga!1j Fer.ilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soils analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation ol the site is being carried out to protect the
plant against earthquake risks. Site preparation should be completed in
March 1978 after which construction can commence. Currently the project is



- 35 -                     ANNEX II
about two years behind schedule due primarily to the additional site prepara-
tion and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items
and (b) planning for construction. Revised cost estimates are being finalized.
Allowing for the additional site work and the delays, costs are expected to be
significantly higher than lender funds currently available. Discussions with
Government on means of providing the project with sufficient foreign exchange
are under way.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of about US$25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstand-
ing the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of
the Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the
population program) has been defined and its headquarters staff has been placed
in position; most field staff is being recruited. Population programs in five
non-health ministries are underway. The Building, Planning and Design Unit of
the Ministry of Health, with the assistance of consultants, has completed a
master plan for the project's construction program and contracts for construc-
tion of project buildings are being awarded. Preliminary drafts of a study
on Population legislation and a management study for the Ministry of Health,
Population Control and Family Planning have been completed. M4ost of the
required consultants and advisors for other parts of the project have been
appointed.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
The project is behind schedule due to initial delays in hiring
project consultants and in assignment of Water Development staff members to
the project, and delays in land acquisition. The staffing position has
improved and field survey and design activities are now progressing satis-
factorily. Principal field activities have been survey work, procurement
of materials and housing and office construction. Two pilot areas have
been developed which have been useful in testing the project concept and in
identifying potential problems. Construction of irrigation channels had been
delayed by problems of land acquisition but these have now been resolved.
Cr. No. 591    Fourth Imports Program; US$100 Mtillion of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
This credit was fully disbursed in December, 1977.



- 36 -                    ANNEX ll
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project is behind schedule due to initial delays in hiring proj-
ect consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the project
began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by delays
in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. Work is now underway to prepare
construction contract documents and to facilitate equipment procurement. The
fisheries component of the project made virtually no progress until recently.
Key staff have now been appointed and a contract with a fisheries consulting
firm has been signed.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on preparation for construction is about five months ahead
of schedule. Most sites have been selected and acquired. Progress has also
been achieved in the preparation of sketch plans for project buildings and the
Government has been working on revised, more economical plans for the Bogra
Rural Development Academy. The inservice training program supported under
project has been delayed due to delays in allocation of local funds; delays
are also being experienced in hiring consultants for the project.
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Five subprojects have been approved amounting to about $4 million.
Other subprojects are under consideration.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The reorganization of pump groups into cooperatives under the
Integrated Rural Development Program is being completed, and adequate progress
has been achieved in rescheduling loans. As part of a nationwide effort to
revitalize the extension system, modifications are being introduced to the
project's agricultural extension system. Procurement under various project
components, benchmark and fish pond surveys, land and draft animal registration
are in progress. After some initial delays, the construction of feeder roads
and thana buildings is proceeding on schedule. However, the project has
experienced some implementation problems in part due to lack of proper coor-
dination among the various implementing agencies, inadequate supervision of
field level staff, and inconsistencies which have developed among various
ongoing rural development programs. A mission visited Bangladesh in November,
1977 to review the implementation of this project and discuss with the Govern-
ment institutional and policy issues affecting rural development in general.



ANNEX II
Some modifications are expected to be made to the project on the basis of
the mission's recommendations.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of January 31, 1978, IDA had committed US$7.7 million and US$0.8
million had been disbursed. It is anticipated that the Credit will be fully
committed by December 1980 and that disbursements will be completed by the
Closing Date.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
As of January  31, 1978, disbursements were US$45.5 million.  In
addition about US$9.0 million of letters of credit are outstanding.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Tender documents for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells
have been agreed. A consultant for workshop management has been designated
and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and machinery
is at an advanced stage. The preparation of Thana Irrigation Maps is
expected to be completed by March, 1978.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays have occurred in obtaining Government approval of the project
budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for hiring the
engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor who will
construct the Feni Regulator.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The effectiveness deadline for this project, originally September 29,
1977 was extended twice to January 6, 1978 to allow the Government more time
to complete conditions of effectiveness (approval of the project budget,
appointment of key management personnel, submission of the legal opinion,
and establishment of revolving fund) and to work out arrangements concerning
the role of field level extension personnel in some new agricultural develop-
ment programs.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Closing Date June 30, 1980; Credit not
yet effective.
Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels and navigation aids, and
for BIWTC cargo vessels have already been prepared and BIWTC lists for spare
parts for hydrographic equipment and specifications for new mobile cranes are
under preparation. Discussions have taken place with the respective agencies
involved about the specialist services required, and procedures for initiating
enquiries and selection of suitable specialists agreed. Operational specia-
lists are now expected to be appointed by end April 1978 - four months behind
the original schedule due to the late signing of the Credit Agreement. Con-
ditions of effectiveness have yet to be complied with.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983; Credit not yet effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
SECOND FOODGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
November 1976 - April 1977
(b) Agency which prepared project:
GOB, based on proposals contained in consultants' feasibility
studies.
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
Consultants' feasibility study, December 1975.
(d) Satisfactory completion of action programs for correcting
deficiencies in Foodgrain Storage I:
June 30, 1976
(e) GOB comments on consultants' feasibility study:
July 27, 1976
(f) First IDA mission to review project:
November 1976
(g) Departure of appraisal mission:
April 20, 1977
(h) Completion of negotiations:
December 23, 1977
(i) Planned date of effectiveness:
July 1, 1978



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
To expedite project implementation agreement was reached during
appraisal on the location of the 70 sites that will be developed
during the first year of project implementation. A supervision
mission is scheduled for May 1978.
Section III:   Special Conditions
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that:
(a) IDA would be informed of any proposed construction
of foodgrain storage, in addition to that provided
by the project, and it would undertake such con-
struction only if it does not adversely affect the
utilization of project facilities (para 32);
(b) godowns would be built using designs, construction
methods, and contracting procedures satisfactory
to IDA and that construction of a godown at a new
location in the core area would only be undertaken
after testing its potential through the operation
of a temporary procurement center (para 32);
(c) GOB would fix a day of the week in each sub-division
where project TCCA were operating, for purchase from
TCCA (para 37);
(d) auditors satisfactory to IDA would be appointed to
audit the separate project accounts of PIU and PECU,
which would be sent to IDA within 6 months of the close
of each fiscal year (para 58);
(e) the Government would take measures to increase competi-
tion among foodgrain traders at the farmgate level and
make such purchase and transport arrangements required
to (a) minimize congestion at procurement points;
(b) ensure expeditions payments; (c) simplify purchase
quality standards; (d) provide appropriate alternatives
in case of failure of normal transport arrangements and
set procurement prices at levels that provide sufficient
incentive for growers to increase production through a
greater use of new seed varieties, fertilizer and irri-
gation (paras 47 and 48);
(f) by October 31, 1978, the proposed reviews of the field
administration of the Directorate of Food, and of the
current system of payments and financing used to pur-
chase foodgrains domestically, would be completed
(para 49);



-41 -
ANNEX III
(g) by October 31, 1978, the Planning Cell in the Ministry
of Food would be strengthened and the Monitoring Cell
would be established, with staffing terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA (paras 50 and 51); and
(h) by October 31, 1978 consultants to design the farmgate
price monitoring system would be recruited (para 52).






BRD 12656R
Ak
OAGW)Esk
POJECTF
7AE
UXATf OF IMSTM  AND RCP-05ED                                 N SITES
ji
v
'Thk,q-
s
otfWr.
EfU
4*rn  6.1 b6unliwltes
_7
1d
(D
E;
N       I
P A                                                                        H-
D 4IC'C A
ydltp, `
/                    -
TI
AhO
:OMILL
E.7
I L LA
D.
i   s s 0  R-E              A     I   P u              v       IH
SSORE
Z
P-h4.
Mqd,
U.LNA
W Qv. FA                                                                                        q,A K  A L
'A R
E                                                                                                                          FIATA
J
C S J  ,e    V ! i   E2 7 V
3     I
,\J'K  4U',C                                       TI
'CHiTTA
P.hy.)
)AT,AKqkl
"'v      rv/"
CHITTAGON
o
0.4 E
ZI
6,                                                  P a          of           v n   o
0     O    20   3   40   5c
8y  f  6, g                                           D     21    11
V
J/
It"



