CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 787 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Foodgrain Storage Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 12, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 787 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 1978, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Defini'tions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respec.tive meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PWD" means the Public Works Department of the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development or any
successor thereto;
(b) "Project Area" means the area consisting of the Bor-
rower's northern districts of Bogra, Dinajpur, Rajshahi, Rangpur,
Mymensingh and Sylhet;
(c) "IRDP" means the Integrated Rural Development Program,
an agency of the Borrower's Ministry of Land Administration, Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives;
(d) "TCCA" means Thana Central Cooperative Association under
IRDP, an association of "KSSs" at the thana level;
(e) "KSS" means Krishak Samabaya Samiti, a farmers' coopera-
tive society at the village level;
(f) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(g) "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee referred to
in Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(h) "PECU" means the Project Engineering and Construction
Unit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(i) "Project Fund" means each of the funds to be established
for the purposes of the Project in accordance with Section 3.20 of
this Agreement;
(j) "Foodgrain" refers to the three rice crops in the
Borrower's territory (aus, aman and boro) and to wheat; and
(k) "Taka" and "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1988, and ending
January 15, 2028, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on January 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Food (with PWD's assistance with respect
to Part A of the Project and IRDP's assistance with respect to
Part D of the Project) with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall establish and maintain
within its Directorate General of Food a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) (a) which shall be headed by the Director General of
Food assisted by a Deputy Director and (b) whose organization,
staffing, functions and responsibilities shall be as set forth in
Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause its Directorate
General of Food to establish, not later than October 31, 1978 or
such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, and


﻿-4-
thereafter maintain a Monitoring Cell (a) which shall be headed by
a Deputy or Assistant Director and (b) whose organization, staff-
ing, functions and responsibilities shall be as set forth in Part
B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall establish and maintain within PWD
a Project Engineering and Construction Unit (PECU) (a) which shall
be headed by a Project Construction Manager of the rank of either
Additional or Deputy Chief Engineer and (b) whose organization,
staffing, functions and responsibilities shall be as set forth in
Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. In order to ensure efficient cooperation
among, and support from, the various departments and agencies of
the Borrower concerned in the implementation of the Project, the
Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Steering Committee
(PSC) (a) which shall be headed by the Secretary of the Borrower's
Ministry of Food and (b) whose membership composition, functions
and responsibilities shall be as set forth in Part D of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31,
1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
appoint a Research Officer and an Economist to strengthen the
Planning Cell of the Ministry of Food, under the supervision of
the Joint Secretary in charge of domestic foodgrain procurement,
in order to provide administrative and planning assistance to
PSC.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Parts E and F of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. The consultar.cs to
assist the Borrower in carrying out Part F of the Project shall
be employed not later than October 31, 1978 or such other date as
shall be agreed with the Association.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 5 -
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall furnish to the Association, on a quarterly basis,
reports on the progress of the Project which shall be consistent
with the formats to be agreed with the Association; (iii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iv) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the construction (and operation) of the


﻿- 6 -
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, at the request of the Association, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 3.11. Until December 31, 1981, the Borrower shall,
before undertaking the construction of any new godowns for food-
grain storage in the Project Area (other than those included in
the Project): (a) ensure that such construction shall not
adversely affect the utilization of the facilities constructed
under the Project and (b) inform the Association of any such
construction.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause the godowns included
in Parts A and H of the Project to be built (a) in accordance with
designs and construction standards acceptable to the Association
and (b) at such locations, selected in most cases because of the
prior successful operation of temporary foodgrain purchase centers
thereat, as shall be agreed with the Association, after the
Borrower's proposals shall have been furnished to the Association
for approval, not later than February 28 of each year, with
respect to the Borrower's construction program for the following
twelve months.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause all usable existing
pest control equipment presently owned by the Borrower's Ministry
of Food in the Project Area to be transferred to pest control
squads of the Borrower's Ministry of Food operating outside the
Project Area when the equipment to be provided under Part C of
the Project shall come into operation.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall select one day of the week
for the purchase by the Borrower's Ministry of Food of foodgrain
provided by each TCCA participating in the pilot marketing program
referred to in Part D of the Project.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
October 31, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association (i) carry out a review of the field administration of
the Borrower's Ministry of Food and (ii) inform the Association
of the findings of such review; and (b) thereafter, implement such
measures as shall be required to increase the effectiveness of the
said field administration.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.16. For the operation of its domestic foodgrain
procurement program, the Borrower shall make such arrangements for
the purchase and transport of foodgrains as shall be required to:
(a) minimize congestion at each procurement point;
(b) ensure expeditious payments to foodgrain traders;
(c) simplify its purchase quality standards; and
(d) provide appropriate alternatives in the case of failure
by transport contractors to fulfill their obligations toward the
Borrower.
Section 3.17. The Borrower shall take such measures as shall
be required, from time to time, to increase the competition among
foodgrain traders at the farmgate level.
Section 3.18. For the purposes of its domestic foodgrain pro-
curement program, the Borrower shall set foodgrain procurement
prices at levels which shall provide sufficient incentive for
growers to increase foodgrain production through a greater use of
fertilizers, high-yielding seed varieties and irrigation.
Section 3.19. The Borrower shall (a) not later than
October 31, 1978 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association (i) carry out, under terms of reference consistent
with those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, a review of
its administrative procedures used to make payments for all
foodgrains domestically procured by its Ministry of Food and (ii)
inform the Association of the findings of such review; and (b)
thereafter, implement such measures as shall be required to
improve such procedures.
Section 3.20. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement and except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain, in a commercial bank, two
Project Funds, one referred to as the PIU Project Fund to be
administered by the Director General of Food, and the other
referred to as the PECU Project Fund to be administered by PECU's
Project Construction Manager, such Project Funds to be used


﻿- 8-
exclusively to account and make payments in Takas for any expendi-
tures for the Project in respect of which prompt payment is
desirable;
(b) deposit an initial amount of (i) Tk 2,000,000 in the
PIU Project Fund and (ii) Tk 5,000,000 in the PECU Project Fund;
(c) replenish the amount in each of the Project Funds as and
when needed, at the request of the Director General of Food or
PECU's Project Construction Manager, at a level at least equal to
(A) (i) Tk 2,000,000 with respect to the PIU Project Fund and
(ii) Tk 5,000,000 with respect to the PECU Project Fund plus (B)
such additional amounts as shall be required by PIU or PECU to
make all prompt payments referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 3.21. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1979 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association
(a) carry out a study of the private sector storage and marketing
system in the Borrower's territory with a view to identifying
its operational constraints and investments needs; and (b) inform
the Association of the findings of such study.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association the Annual
Report of the Borrower's Ministry of Food to be prepared for each
year by the Planning Cell referred to in Section 3.06 of this
Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause PIU and PECU to (a)
establish and maintain separate accounts for the purposes of the
Project; (b) have such accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently


﻿-9-
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(i) certified copies of the said accounts for such year as so
audited and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (d) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the said accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall (a) cause PWD to maintain,
under annual arrangements entered into with the Borrower's Minis-
try of Food, the godowns to be constructed or rehabilitated under
the Project and make or cause to be made all necessary repairs
thereof, and (b) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Project Proforma has been approved by the Borrower;
(b) the Borrower has established the Project Funds and has
deposited therein the amounts referred to in Section 3.20 (b) of
this Agreement;
(c) PIU has been established in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement and PIU's Deputy Director
has been appointed;
(d) PECU has been established in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement and PECU's Project
Construction Manager has been appointed;
(e) PSC has been established in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and


﻿- 10 -
(f) the Borrower has (i) acquired the land needed to carry
out the construction of new godowns under Part A of the Project
at not less than 20 sites agreed with the Association and (ii)
furnished to the Association evidence satisfactory to the Associa-
tion that such land is available for such purposes.
Section 5.02. The date July 12, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The followir.g addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties thereto, acting throu,i their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By Is/ M. R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Construction            17,000,000          100% of foreign
materials and                              expenditures and
civil works                                65% of local
expenditures
(2) Equipment and            2,500,000         100% of foreign
vehicles subject                           expenditures (for
to international                           directly imported
competitive bid-                           items) and 100%
ding, required for:                        of local expendi-
tures ex-factory
(for items local-
ly manufactured
and procured ex-
factory)
(a) the Project,
excluding
Part C.2
thereof; and
(b) the testing
laboratory
under Part
C.2 of the
Project
(3) Equipment, subject         500,000         100% of foreign
to local or inter-                         expenditures or
national shopping,                         60% of local
required for:                              expenditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(a) the Project,
excluding
Part C.2
thereof; and
(b) the testing
laboratory
under Part C.2
of the Project
(4) Technical assistance,   1,375,000          100%
studies, and training
(5) Operating costs of        1259000          80%
PIU and the Monitor-
ing Cell referred to
in Part G of the Proj-
ect and salaries of
the incremental staff
of the Planning Cell
referred to in Sec-
tion 3.06 of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated             3,500,000
TOTAL   25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
(b) for expenditures under Category (1) until (i) PECU has
been staffed in accordance with a plan acceptable to the Associa-
tion, as provided in Part C.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
and (ii) the engineering consultant and the paddy drying and
procurement consultant referred to in Part E of the Project have
been appointed under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association; and
(c) for expenditures under Categories 2 (b) and 3 (b) until
the Chemist of the laboratory referred to in Part C.2 of the
Project has been appointed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 15 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
improving the capacity and efficiency of its domestic foodgrain
procurement and storage program. Parts A through G of the Project
shall be carried out in the Project Area. The Project consists of
the following parts:
Part A:
1.   Construction of new godowns (including necessary ancil-
laries) with an aggregate storage capacity of about 145,000 tons
at about 150 existing or new sites.
2.   Rehabilitation of existing Twin-Nissen and similar
godowns with an aggregate storage capacity of about 25,000 tons.
Part B:
Provision of weighing and testing equipment and mechanical
drying facilities.
Part C:
1.   Strengthening of the grain inspection and pest control
operations of the Borrower's Ministry of Food through the provi-
sion of equipment and vehicles for land and water transport.
2.   Establishment of a new foodgrain testing laboratory.
Part D:
Carrying out of a pilot program to develop the marketing
potential of about 10 selected TCCAs.
Part E:
Provision of about 10 man-years of technical assistance in
the areas of engineering, pest control training, paddy drying
and procurement systems.


﻿- 17 -
Part F:
Preparation of detailed guidelines and review of the neces-
sary data collection required to permit, after Project completion,
an assessment, to be included in the report referred to in Section
3.09 (c) of this Agreement, of the impact of the Project on (i)
the levels of foodgrain prices and (ii) the operating efficiency
of the Borrower's Directorates of Food with respect to foodgrain
storage utilization and the reduction of foodgrain losses.
Part G:
Establishment and operation of PIU and the Monitoring Cell
within the Borrower's Directorate of Food.
Part H:
Construction of new godowns (including necessary ancillaries)
with an aggregate storage capacity of about 20,000 tons and
rehabilitation of existing godowns at strategic sites located in
the Borrower's territory, outside the Project Area, to facilitate
relief response to emergencies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.3 and A.4 hereof, goods shall
be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (here-
inafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines. The
requirements for vehicles and equipment shall be grouped so as to
permit bulk procurement consistent with appropriate technical and
procurement practices.
2.   Contracts for civil works shall be let on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association. All civil works at any site where
the construction of only one godown is planned shall be grouped
and let as one contract.
3.   Cement not provided by contractors shall be procured through
international shopping, on the basis of at least 3 price quota-
tions. Other construction materials may be procured through local
shopping.
4.   Contracts for equipment items costing less than $10,000
equivalent may be let through international or local shopping on
the basis of at least 3 price quotations, provided that the
aggregate of such contracts shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Vehicles and Equipment;
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of vehicles and equipment subject to international competi-
tive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid
the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 19 -
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of Bangladesh may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Bangladesh if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Bangladesh equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of Bangladesh.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If


﻿- 20 -
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as
a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for (i) vehicles and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more and (ii)
civil works (excluding those required for the rehabilitation of
godowns):
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with its
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 21 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds oi the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids or
offers, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   The Association may, on such conditions as it shall deter-
mine, permit withdrawals by the Borrower from the Credit Account
in respect of expenditures for equipment procured in accordance
with the provisions of Part A.4 of this Schedule, for which
sufficient evidence of expenditure has not been furnished to
the Association at the time of withdrawal but shall be furnished
to the Association at the Association's request.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
PIU, PECU, PSC and Monitoring Cell
Organization, Functions and Responsibilities
A.   Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
1.   PIU shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(a) the preparation of annual construction programs for
the purpose of carrying out Parts A and H of the Project;
(b) the procurement of all goods (other than construction
materials and equipment) required under the Project;
(c) the recruitment of the pest control and paddy drying
and procurement consultants referred to in Part E of the Project;
(d) the administration of the PIU Project Fund referred to
in Section 3.20 of this Agreement; and
(e) the preparation of detailed quarterly reports on the
progress of the Project.
2.   PIU's Deputy Director referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement shall report directly to the Director General of Food.
3.   The staff of the PIU shall include an accounts officer,
a procurement officer and the necessary support staff.
B.   Monitoring Cell
1.   The main function of the Monitoring Cell shall be to assist
the Director General of Food in improving the operational effi-
ciency of the Borrower's Directorates of Food. It shall be,
responsible, inter alia, for:
(a) the review of all operational information now being
collected and the collection of such other information (including
information relating to operating costs) as shall be deemed to be
relevant to the planning responsibilities of the Borrower's
Ministry of Food;
(b) the establishment of internal reporting and review
systems;


﻿- 23 -
(c) the analysis of all relevant data, with a view to making
specific recommendations to the Borrower's Directorate General of
Food to reduce operational costs and increase effectiveness; and
(d) the preparation of the Annual Operational Report,
including the Annual Operating Plan, of the Borrower's Director-
ates of Food.
2.   The head of the Monitoring Cell referred to in Section 3.03
of this Agreement shall report directly to the Director General of
Food.
3.   The staff of the Monitoring Cell shall include a transport/
systems analyst, a financial analyst, a statistician and the
necessary support staff.
C.   Project Engineering and Construction Unit (PECU)
1.   PECU shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (a) the design
and overall supervision of the construction and rehabilitation of
the godowns included in the Project; (b) the recruitment of the
engineering consultant referred to in Part E of the Project; (c)
the procurement of construction materials and equipment; (d)
furnishing to the Association for approval the documents referred
to in Parts C.1 and C.2 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (e)
approving designs and site plans; (f) approving tender documents,
bid evaluations and contracts; (g) the operation of the PECU
Project Fund; and (h) the maintenance of appropriate accounts
established for the purposes of the Project.
2.   PECU shall be staffed by PWD engineers and supervisory
personnel in accordance with a plan acceptable to the Association.
D.   Project Steering Committee (PSC)
1.   PSC shall meet, whenever necessary but at least on a
quarterly basis, to review the progress of Project implementation
in conjunction with the various departments and agencies of the
Borrower involved in the carrying out of the Project.
2.   PSC's membership shall include the Joint Secretary of the
Borrower's Ministry of Food in charge of procurement, the Director
General of Food, the Joint Secretary of the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture, PWD's Chief Engineer, PECU's Project Construction
Manager, a representative of the Bangladesh Bank and the Director
of IRDP.


﻿- 24 -
3.   PSC shall (a) review the quarterly Project progress reports
prepared by PIU and the Annual Report of the Borrower's Ministry
of Food referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement; (b)
ensure coordination among the various departments and agencies of
the Borrower responsible for the execution of the Project; and (c)
recommend the implementation of specific programs to be undertaken
to achieve the objectives of the Project.
4.   The secretarial support to PSC will be provided by one
section of the Development Branch of the Ministry of Food, working
exclusively on the Project, under the supervision of the Joint
Secretary responsible for domestic procurement.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Draft Terms of Reference for
the Review Referred to
in Section 3.19 of this Agreement
Objectives
1.   To review the experience of the Bangladesh Bank, commercial
banks operating under the laws of the Borrower, and the Director-
ate of Food over the past three years in making prompt payment to
farmers and traders for foodgrains purchased by the Directorate
General of Food.
2.   To make such recommendations for both short term and long
term, as shall be necessary to ensure that the payment system
is able to cope with rapidly increasing domestic foodgrain pro-
curement levels as well as administrative delays or other con-
tingencies.
Implementation
3.   The review shall be undertaken by senior officers of the
agencies concerned, and shall involve visits to all six Project
districts. PSC shall discuss the recommendations and chart
actions needed for implementation.
4.   The reviewing officers shall specifically:
(a) evaluate the trade off between the increased administra-
tive burden due to a large number of banks involved in
making payments in a sub-division, and the advantages of
competition between banks;
(b) consider the advantage of locating a payment booth at
the purchase points, rather than using a nearby bank branch;
(c) discuss the merits of possible alternatives to the
weight-quality-stock-certificate (WQSC) system of payments;
(d) study the instances when a bank was not able to make
prompt payment, after a WQSC was issued, investigate the
reasons for such failure, including bank hours, security
problems, availability of cash, administrative disbursement
limits imposed by commercial banks or the Bangladesh Bank and
suggest suitable remedies; and


﻿- 26 -
(e) recommend suitable mechanisms for coordination and
timely correction of problems at the field level between
commercial banks and the Directorate General of Food.


