Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20518 - BR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211-BR)
June 16, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             Real (R$)
US$1               =      Rs. 1.2 (as of December 15, 1998)
R$ 1.77 (as of March 29, 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASEP               Regulatory Agency for the Private Provision of Public Services
BANERJ             Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
CEDAE              Companhia Estadual de Agua e Esgoto
CEF                Caixa Economica Federal
CEG                Companhia Estadual do Gas
CERJ               Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
CODERTE            Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodoviario e de Terminais
CONERJ             Companhia de Navegacao do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
CTC/SERVE          Companhia de Transportes Coletivos/Empresa Estadual de Viacao
FEEMA              Fundacao Estadual de Engenharia do Meio Ambiente
FLUMITRENS         Companhia Fluminense de Trens Urbanos
METRO              Companhia do Metropolitano do Rio de Janeiro
PETROBRAS          Petroleo Brasileiro S.A
RFFSA              Rede Ferroviaria Federal S/A - Federal Railway Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice-President: ..........      David de Ferranti
Country Director ..........     Gobind Nankani
Sector Director: ..........     Danny Leipziger
Task Manager ..........         Danielle Berthelot



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE.
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ........................................................                 i-vii
Part I- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Project Objectives  ........................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .......................................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .                .................................................. 16
D. Project Sustainability ........................................................  17
E. Bank Performance .........................................................       18
F. Borrower Performance ........................................................    18
G. Assessment of Outcome                  ........................................... 19
H. Future Operation ......................................................... 19
1. Key Lessons Learned ........................................................     20
Part II- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ........................................................ 23
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................................................... 24
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................  25
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ......... 26
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .............................. 27
Table SA: Summary ........................................................        27-30
Table SB: Privatization Proceeds ........................................................ 31
Table 5C: Shareholding Structure of Major Companies
Before and After Privatization/Concessioning ................ 32
Table 5D:Fiscal Perfornance Investment Program ............................. 33
Table SE:Fiscal Indicators - Budget Ratios .......................................... 34-6
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ......................................... 37
Table 6A:Indicators of Performance - CERG ...................... ............... 37
Table 6B:Indicators of Performance - CEG ......................................... 38
Table 6C:Indicators of Performance - FLUMITRENS/SUPERVIA ... 39
Table 6D:Indicators of Performance - METRO/OPPORTRANS ........ 40
Table 6E:Formal Complaints Registered in
PROCONs of the State of Rio de Janeiro ........................ 41-2
Table 6F:Destination of Privatization Proceeds ................................... 43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 7: Studies Included  in Project ..........................................                               44
Table 8A: Project Costs .........................................                                              45
Table 8B: Project Financing .........................................                                          46
Table 9: Direct Fiscal Impact of the Reform   Program  ............................ 47
Table 9A:Assumptions ..........................................                                            47-9
Table 9B:Net Present Value .........................................                                        50-54
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants .........................................                                 55-7
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .................. 58
Table  12: Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................                              58
Table  13: Bank  Resources: Missions ..........................................                                59-61
ANNEXES
Annex  1:  The Privatization  of BANERJ ...............................................                                   62
Annex 2: CERJ ...............................................                                                              70
Annex 3: CEG and RIOGAS ...............................................                                                    73
Annex 4: METRO ...............................................                                                            80
Annex 5: FLUMITRENS ...............................................                                                       87
APPENDICES
A - Borrower's contribution to the ICR
B - Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rio de Janeiro State
Reform-Privatization Project in Brazil, for which Loan 4211-BR, in the amount of
US$250 million equivalent was approved on July 17, 1997, and made effective on April
8, 1998.
The loan was closed on December 30, 1998, a year and a half after Board
approval, on the original closing date. An aggregated amount of US$50 million
equivalent was canceled on loan closing. As of April 14, 1999, the equivalent of
US 199,577,001.84 had been paid from the authorized loan amount of US$200 million.
The ICR was prepared by Charles Dahan and Dominique Babelon, consultants,
under the supervision of Danielle Berthelot (task manager, LCSFP). It was reviewed by
Suman Bery (Lead Economist, LCC5A).
Preparation of this ICR began in November 1998, during the project's completion
mission, with the outgoing Administration. Further work was done in the first quarter of
1999 with the new Administration that took office in January 1999. It is based on an ex-
post evaluation report prepared by the outgoing Administration before December
31,1998; materials in the Bank project files; and discussions with Bank staff involved in
the project, with government officials and ASEP commissioners, as well as with the
major concessionaires.
The ICR was sent for comments to the borrower on June 11, 1999. The borrower
provided comments on April 13, 2000. They are included in Appendix A to the ICR.
In support of these comments, the borrower also sent copies of audit reports which were
carried out by the School of Engineering of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro
(COPPE/UFRJ) on the privatization of BANERJ, CERJ, CEG and RIOGAS,
FLUMITRENS, METRO and CONERJ. These documents are available in the Project
files.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The project's main objectives were to support the privatization and concession program of the
state of Rio de Janeiro, i.e, to yield a state government that is more efficient in the delivery of
financial services, urban transport and utility services. The project financed part of the incremental
costs of reform. The loan of US$250 million was to be disbursed in three time-slices upon
implementation of major privatizations and compliance with limited fiscal targets. The objectives
and design of the project changed considerably during project preparation, which started at the end of
1995. The project was originally conceived to support much broader reforms of the state, including
administrative reform. However, federal constitutional reform necessary to the proposed
administrative reform was delayed and the debt agreement between the federal government and the
state of Rio de Janeiro did not put the state in a condition to become more creditworthy. The Bank
agreed with the state government that it was nonetheless worthwhile to undertake a project to support
the privatization/concession program and the development of a regulatory framework for the private
provision of public services. These objectives did not change during implementation.
Achievements of Objectives
2.    With the exception of CEDAE, the water and sanitation company, all planned privatization or
concession transactions were completed by December 31, 1998, the original closing date. These
included the sale or concession of BANERJ, the state Bank; CERJ, the electricity utility; CEG, the
gas distribution company, and its subsidiary RIOGAS; FLUMITRENS, the suburban railways
company; and METRO (Rio's subway). Other urban transport companies (CONERJ, the state ferry
service), CTC and SERVE, two bus companies, and part of CODERTE real estate (bus terminal
operating company) were also concessioned or sold or are under liquidation.
3.    CEDAE, the state water and sanitation company, however, was not concessioned, despite
considerable efforts by the state government. This was essentially due to the unresolved ambiguity in
the Brazilian Constitution regarding competence over the power to concede in the sector. The state
did not until too late secure the support of the key municipalities of the metropolitan region to the
concession of CEDAE. When it finally did, in November 1998, the auction had to be canceled,
because the state Assembly passed a law on November 11, 1998 revoking the inclusion of CEDAE in
the state privatization program. The Governor-elect had also declared his opposition to the proposed
privatization model.
4.    The objective of establishing an independent multi-sector regulatory agency was achieved,
but is in danger of being reversed. A Regulatory Agency for the Private Provision of Public Services



ii
(ASEP) was created by law in February 1997. Due to delays in appointing the agency's mandated
commissioners, ASEP started to organize only in December 1997, at which time, CERJ, CEG,
RIOGAS, and METRO had already been concessioned. During 1998, ASEP started functioning:
internal regulations were developed, most personnel was hired, and a number of regulatory sessions
were organized. However, in January 1999, the newly elected Governor announced his intention to
change the regulatory framework, replacing ASEP with two agencies and changing the mandate of
commissioners. As of March 1999, except for the commissioners and some secretarial support, all
ASEP staff had been removed, effectively impeding the functioning of the agency.
5.    Diagnostic and environmental audits and safety studies undertaken for CERJ, CEG, METRO
and FLUMITRENS before their concession found that most installations were not environmentally
licensed and were not in compliance with regulations. The consultants recommended a series of
mitigation measures and estimated their cost. These audits and the consultant recommendations were
available to bidders. Under the contracts, concessionaires must comply with all environmental and
safety regulations, which should result in a positive environmental impact of the project.
6.    The fiscal objectives of the project were not to induce improvement in the state's fiscal
situation. Rather, the Bank only sought to retain remedies should the state engage in reckless fiscal
behavior, through the establishment of limited investment and fiscal perfolrmance targets. The state
met the agreed targets.
7.    Costs of reform  to the state treasury were higher than planned (about R$7.6 billion versus
about R$6.4 billion). The cost difference was essentially due to increased costs of BANERJ
privatization, for which the state had to assume large hidden and contingent liabilities and borrow
from the Central Bank to re-capitalize BANERJ prior to sale. Total Bank financing was US$200
million, compared with the initial loan amount of US$250 million. The last US$50 million time-
slice, which was linked to the concession of CEDAE, was canceled.
8.    Experience after concession award highlights some design issues in the METRO and
FLUMITRENS concessions. In both cases, the contracts allowed the concessionnaires to select the
personnel they wished to retain, the unwanted personnel remaining on the state's payroll. This left
the state government with a staff of close to 4,000, costing R$8.2 million a month. There should
have been a much more realistic assessment prior to concession of the cost of retrenchment - based
on experience gained from similar concessions in Brazil and other countries such as Argentina, and a
pre-defined limitation on the total cost of retrenchment that the government should assume. This
would have resulted in better transparency, minimum price definition and budget planning, and
would have lowered the political cost to the government.  It would also have induced the
concessionaire to decide any further retrenchment based on a clear cost/benefit analysis (labor
savings compared with retrenchment costs). Also, the respective investment obligations of the state
and the concessionaires must be much better specified: failure to do so has led to a conflict between
the metro concessionaire and the state and to the suspension of lease payments. Finally, with respect
to the gas concessions, it would have been better not to allow the same group to win both
concessions. Furthermore, the contracts contain exclusivity provisions which may later conflict with
federal open access regulations.
9.    It is very early to assess the impact of privatization on quality of service. Nevertheless, all
four concessions show clear improvements in productivity, achieved through substantial lay-offs,
reduction in losses and tariff evasion, and more intensive use of infrastructure. Sales in volume and



iii
value have increased at rates substantially higher than in previous years. CEG and CERJ show
marked improvements in profitability. Investments have been substantial.
10.   All concessionaires initially prioritized restoring financial health, sometimes at the expense of
quality of service, resulting in widespread customer dissatisfaction with CERJ in 1998 and to press
allegations that privatization was the cause of several urban train accidents in the initial months of
operation. In both cases, this might have been due to a combination of lack of knowledge and
excessive pushing of infrastructure. But there are also encouraging signs. The performance of
CERJ, in terms of interruptions, improved in 1998 and the company is heavily investing to resolve
the system's problems. CEG has started the manufactured gas conversion program; ridership has
increased on both metro and the sub-urban train system, where regularity, timeliness and travel time
have improved. All concessionaires were implementing and had announced investment programs for
the coming years significantly above historical averages.
11.   The fiscal impact of the project was positive: the net present value of direct fiscal benefits
(savings in operating subsidies and privatization proceeds) less fiscal costs (personnel retrenchment
before and after privatization) is substantially positive (R$7.1 billion in the base case, over a period
of twenty years assuming a discount factor of 12% in real terms, decreasing to no less than R$3
billion under reasonable sensitivity tests). The heaviest direct costs to the state Treasury were by far
those of privatizating BANERJ, close to R$7 billion.  However, under any other option
(recapitalization or liquidation), costs would have been similar or higher.
12.   Immediate proceeds of privatization amounted to R$1.35 billion in cash, plus R$0.2 billion in
privatization certificates. From cash receipts, a total of R$1.12 billion was allocated to investments
(81%), debt reduction (15%), and other expenditures ( 4%). A balance of R$230 million remained
unallocated at the end of 1998. Over 60% of investment expenditures may have had a noticeable
social impact. It could be argued, however, that a larger share of the proceeds should have been
assigned to expenditures contributing more to sustained improvements in state finances, such as debt
reduction or social security reform.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
13.   The project was identified in October 1995, appraised in May 1996, but was only signed
nearly two years later. These major delays were caused by difficulties met in privatizing BANERJ,
protracted debt negotiations between the state and the federal governments, and late approval of the
federal guarantee by the Senate. Nevertheless, because implementation of the privatization and
concession program proceeded in parallel without major delays, the project was closed as planned on
December 31, 1998.
Project Sustainability
14.   Privatizations and concessions are largely irreversible. For that reason, sustainability of the
project is likely. However, the degree to which project benefits are maintained will depend on the
ability of the state to build-up and maintain a strong, competent, and independent regulatory agency
(or agencies) capable of balancing interests of the state, the concessionaires and the users.  The
weakening of ASEP and uncertainties about institutional changes that will be implemented by the
new administration are a matter of concern. Reversal in this area was the main risk identified at
appraisal.



iv
15.   Fiscal savings associated with the elimination of operating subsidies are permanent and could
be substantially increased if the government took quick action to extinguish the remnant METRO
and FLUMITRENS companies. Finally, adequate implementation of the Rio Mass Transit Project is
critical to the sustainability of the sub-urban train concession.
Bank Performance
16.   The Bank performance was highly satisfactory during identification, preparation and
appraisal, and satisfactory during project supervision. The project design was realistic; Bank teams
provided intensive technical assistance throughout, and worked closely with the state government.
All major risks were correctly identified. The Bank also warned the government early-on about the
need to reach agreement with municipalities regarding the water and sanitation concession. The
Bank pressed the state government to reach agreement with the municipalities, but this pressure was
ineffective in the political context of pre-election time and finally of an election year. The Bank,
however, closed the loan too soon. The Bank should have agreed to extend the closing date beyond
the end of the previous administration, to permit a continuation of the dialogue with the newly elected
government on critical issues such as the privatization of CEDAE and the need for a strong,
independent regulatory agency.
Borrower Performance
17.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory.  The state government implemented an
ambitious program in a record three years and demonstrated strong, sustained commitment at all
levels. The government complied with all covenants in the loan agreement. The government,
however, was too slow in establishing ASEP and appointed commissioners involved in the
privatization phases. The perceived politization of the appointment of ASEP officials was a primary
reason behind the reversal of decisions taken by the new state government which is severely
compromising sustainability of the reform. It was also slow in seeking an agreement with the
municipalities regarding the sharing of CEDAE privatization proceeds.  Finally, although the
government did use funding from Caixa Economica to pay for retrenchment costs prior to 1998, it did
not sufficiently assess the cost of necessary additional personnel retrenchment in METRO and
FLUMITRENS and secure and budget the necessary funds, leaving the political burden and a
financial cost of undefined magnitude to the next government.
Assessment of Outcome
18.   The outcome of the project was satisfactory: it achieved most of its major privatization
objectives (the only exception being the concession of water and sanitation services), has established
a supportive albeit vulnerable regulatory framework, and is likely to be sustainable.
Future Operation
19.  It is important that the Bank, which was very instrumental in the adoption of the ASEP model
by the state of Rio, should reopen and maintain a dialogue with the new state government on this
matter. Also, although the privatization of CEDAE did not take place, the Bank was involved in the
development of the model that was eventually adopted, and it should seek an appropriate platform to
help the state government find a solution for CEDAE.  Finally, the Bank should assist the
Government in expediting the extinction of the remnant companies of METRO and FLUMITRENS,
possibly by funding at least part of the cost of redundancies under the Rio Mass Transit Project.



V
Key Lessons Learned
(a) State Bank Privatization
20.   The state of Rio de Janeiro was a pioneer in dealing with the huge problems of its state bank,
an issue common to many states in Brazil. In retrospect, the main lessons may be summarized as
follows:
*  Privatizing or liquidating a state bank requires sustained political commitment at the highest level
of state government.
*  Splitting the bank into a "good bank" (to be privatized) and a "bad bank" (to be liquidated) may
be necessary when the financial condition is so bad (very high negative net-worth) that outright
privatization is not possible, and when poor financial results are attributed to years of bad
operational management. It is then clear that the state will have to assume a large portion of
liabilities in any event, but that the potential for improvements in the "good bank" is large.
Splitting is not necessary if the state bank is relatively efficient in its operations and its poor
financial condition is attributed to the bad performance of a large debtor (such as the state itself).
In this case, the best approach would be for the state to secure funds from the federal government
to re-finance this debt and re-capitalize the bank, and privatize the state bank with all its assets
and liabilities.
*  Unless necessary, splitting should be avoided, as dealing with the "remnants" to be liquidated
carry a large administrative and legal burden for the state after privatization. It is usually much
more difficult for a state to deal with assets disposal and labor-related issues than for a private
enterprise. This should be left as much as possible to the private buyer, even if the cost of doing
so is reflected in a lower purchasing price, or explicit compensation payments are made by the
state to the new owner for dealing with these questions (in any event, the privatized bank may
remain liable for legal actions initiated before privatization). There also may be a temptation to
keep the "bad bank" going longer than necessary, due to political pressures or a desire to use an
existing legal entity for other purposes. Speedy liquidation will avoid this, but will normally
require the state treasury to absorb these assets and liabilities and the responsibility for dealing
with them, which may absorb its time and efforts for many years to come..
*  It is essential to identify and deal up-front with the problem of hidden liabilities, in particular
unfunded pension liabilities. These obligations should be identified as soon as the decision to
privatize has been taken, and resolved before publishing the bidding documents. Negotiated
solutions to resolve pension fund deficits must be agreed upon, or, if not possible, liquidation
must be decreed (with parallel assumption of liabilities by the state already clear). Doing it late in
the process is sure to lead to staff opposition and other court actions which will delay
privatization pending resolution of the issue. It will damage the bank's privatization prospects by
scaring away its depositors and potential buyers.
*  Private management contracts are useful to prepare a bank for privatization when years of bad
management and poor records make valuation and the identification of hidden liabilities difficult.
Remuneration of the private manager based on incremental operational results is an effective
incentive to good management. However, (a) the remuneration percentage should be based on
the premise that financial improvements are likely to be substantially above expectations and



vi
should thus be small enough to remain politically acceptable while providing the manager
continuous incentives for improvement until the end of the contract; and (b) treatment of debt
collection efforts and debt renegotiation of the overdue credit portfolio and associated impacts on
provisions (and therefore operational results) must be clearly addressed in the contract.
*   Success fees expressed as a percentage of privatization proceeds are also a good incentive to
proper valuation of the minimum price and active sale promotion. When a. "good bank/bad bank"
split is proposed, however, there may be an in-built bias for the financial adviser to allocate an
excessive share of doubtful assets and liabilities to the bad bank to maximize the selling price
(although, given the lack of interest in BANERJ's auction, there is no evidence that this would
have been the case for BANERJ). The state government must maintain a close dialogue with its
financial advisor to avoid such occurrences.
*  Governments should avoid as much as possible granting exclusivity rights to the management of
state accounts to former public banks. Lack of competition is likely to be detrimental to the
government as well as public servants being served by the privatized bank.
(b) Privatization/Con cession Program
21.   Commitment. The effective and timely implementation of a large privatization/concession
program demands the full and sustained commitment of the state administration at the highest levels
of government. It also requires that ultimate control of the program and decision making be outside
the sector secretariats which oversee the companies to be privatized.
22.   Regulatory Agencies.  The major lessons arising from  this operation relate to the
establishment and status of regulatory agencies in Brazil. First, state government and legislative
assemblies may relatively easily reverse a regulatory framework established by their predecessors.
This is of great concern, however, because the security of a relatively stable and independent
regulatory process is nornally a key element in attracting (and maintaining) interest from the private
sector in the provision of public services. It is suggested that matters related to the mandate of
commissioners and the administrative autonomy of regulatory agencies should be established in
higher law, such as the state Constitutions or federal regulations applicable to all such regulatory
agencies;
23.   Second, the arbitration and control powers of regulatory agencies are eroded by the fact that
any of their decisions can be appealed in any first instance court. This may encourage systematic
appeals of decisions or direct submission of claims to courts, as has happened already in Rio, which
may lead to lengthy court cases because first instance judges are not normally familiar with
regulatory issues. This problem is common to all regulatory agencies in Brazil, and its solution
would require legal changes at the federal level, giving to the agencies the status of first instance
court (appeal would remain possible only to second instance courts);
24.   Third, state governments should be careful to avoid appointing commissioners with real or
perceived conflict of interest, having participated in the privatization process or managed the
privatized companies during preparation. Also, the appointment of commissioners should be phased
in such a way that the mandate of some commissioners expires soon after a new administrations takes
office (subject to the same process of approval by the legislature); this would help ensure the



vii
sustainability of the regulatory framework, which would not be perceived solely as a creation and
territory of the previous administration;
25.   Fourth, regulatory agencies should be established immediately and be in operation before the
first large privatization. Funds for their establishment and operation should be a budget priority, and
part of the proceeds of privatization should be reserved for that purpose. When the privatization
program is supported by the Bank, the loan should allocate funds to support the agency in the
transition period until it becomes self-supporting. Also, the existence of a well operating regulatory
agency and any legal changes under the control of the states needed to reinforce the legal status of the
agency should be conditions of Board presentation, or, at the latest, of first tranche release. Finally,
unless there is a strong federal umbrella legislation protecting state regulatory agencies, stronger
remedies should be included in the legal documents in case of changes adversely affecting their
existence, efficiency and independence.
26.   Concessions. The issues of positive versus negative concessions as compared with labor
efficiency are essentially severable. The Government should decide in advance whether, for social
reasons, it wants to fix tariffs at a level guaranteeing access for the poor or whether it wants to set
terms maximizing the funds received from concessionaires for the concession. This policy will have
a major influence on the value of the concession. In Rio, the Government very emphatically decided
to award the concession under policies designed to maximize the value of the concession. The labor
force under Government management was clearly excessive in size and costly in salary costs and
benefits. Government ensured that the concessionaire was free to bring about an efficient labor force
in size and in salary costs. At the same time, Government did not provide funding for the cost of the
program, leaving the concessionaire in limbo and making difficult the early extinction of the remnant
state companies. In fact, Governments need not fund the entire cost of the labor adjustment program
and, there are reasons why they may not wish to do so. Instead, based on a good estimate of the
likely labor practices under effective management, Government could have elected to fund only part
of the labor program, leaving the concessionaire to fund the rest, but o the same terms available to the
Government. Of course, there would have been a direct interaction between the level of Government
funding and the price paid by the concessionaire.
27.   Bidding documents should be precise regarding the specifications of the equipment and works
to be delivered by the government to the concessionaires. It should also be much more specific about
the circumstances under which the concessionaire has the right to stop lease payments when
infrastructure delivered does not meet these specifications. Transfer of lease payments from one
concessionaire to the other, such as the transfer from METRO to FLUMITRENS, should be avoided,
because if one defaults from any reason, that will affect the recipient: even if meeting the missing
payments is the responsibility of the state, it is unlikely to have budgeted funds for that purpose.
28.   Legal conflicts of competence regarding who has the conceding authority should be resolved
before a company is included under a concession program. At a minimum, an agreement between
concerned parties should be reached before the bidding documents are finalized and the concession
advertised.
29.   Use of Privatization Proceeds. It should be the subject of an agreement with the Bank,
particularly when the state is in a critical financial position. Priority in the use of proceeds should be
first to expenditures which ensure the sustainability of program objectives (retrenchment of staff in
remnant companies, budget support to the regulatory agency in the transition to self-sufficiency), and,
second, to actions which contribute to permanent improvements in the state's fiscal position, such as



Vill
debt reduction or funding of civil servant pension funds. Despite their possible social content, there
should be limits to the use of proceeds for investments, particularly in an election year.
30.   Bank Policies. The Bank should develop a lending instrument better suited to this type of
operation which does not fit into criteria for either investment nor adjustment lending operations.
Although there are strong arguments in Brazil for implementation periods coinciding with the
duration of one administration, the closing date should be established so as to leave an opportunity
for dialogue with incoming administrations, should there be delays in implementation or threat of
reversal. Transparency in the privatization process, including procedures of auctions through the
Stock Exchange, are essential to avoid criticisms and later risks of cancellation and reversal. Bank
procurement rules for concessions should permit auction through the stock exchange, (which was
viewed in this case as essential for transparency) to minimize criticisms and later risks of cancellation
and reversal. Finally, preparation and supervision of this type of project requires a large input of
Bank staff time over a comparatively short period, relative to other projects, and adequate provisions
should be made in the Bank's budget to that effect (in particular for supervision).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211-BR)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Objectives. The project's main objectives were to support the privatization and concession
program of the state of Rio de Janeiro, i.e., to yield a state government that was more efficient in the
delivery of financial services, urban transport and utility services. During preparation, the objectives
were to improve the quality in the design of the state's privatization and concession program and
assist in its implementation, which was well underway by the time the project was approved.
2.    The project financed part of the incremental costs of reform, consisting of: (i) on a declining
basis, the cost of salaries of employees of FLUMITRENS, the suburban rail company which was
transferred from the federal governrment to the state in 1995, as part of the Brazilian Urban Train
Company-CBTU's reform (decentralization) supported by the Bank under an other project (Rio de
Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization - Loan 3633 BR); (ii) the costs of restructuring state
enterprises in preparation for privatization and/or concession, including the cost of right-sizing the
government work force; and (iii) the cost of restructuring and privatizing BANERJ, the state Bank.
3.    The Loan of US$250 million was to be disbursed against the costs of FLUMITRENS salaries
and personnel retrenchment costs, in three time-slices of US$125 million, US$75 million, and US$50
million, upon fulfillment of key conditions in an agreed Policy Matrix (Table 5): the first time-slice
was to be disbursed upon effectiveness, since actions required for disbursement, in particular the sale
of BANERJ and of CERJ, the electricity utility, had to be implemented prior to Board submission.
The second time-slice was to be released after a review (planned between January and June 1998)
had found that satisfactory progress had been made in the sale or concession of urban transport
services (including signing of concession contracts for METRO, FLUMITRENS -- the sub-urban rail
company, CONERJ - the ferry company, and transfer of majority of the bus terminal operation-
CODERTE's assets), that CEG and its subsidiary, RIOGAS (gas distribution companies) had been
concessioned and their shares sold, and that the state government's fiscal performance in 1997 had
been substantially consistent with the capital spending program and fiscal indicators set forth in the
government's program letter. The third time-slice was to be disbursed upon completion of reform in
the water and sanitation sector (concessioning of water and sewerage systems with a population of at
least 2.5 million persons in aggregate, in accordance with environmental targets satisfactory to the
Bank). The detailed wording of these conditions is presented in Table 10.
4.    The objectives and design of the project changed considerably during project preparation,
which started at the end of 1995. The project was originally conceived to support much broader
reforms of the state. In addition to a comprehensive privatization concession program, the project



2
was to include central administrative reforms (civil service and social security), public finance
reforms (planning and budgeting and financial control, debt restructuring and management), and
improvement in overall fiscal performance and in the structure of public expenditures (the
government being required to meet fiscal improvement targets and to have satisfactory annual public
expenditure reviews). Success in producing a sustainable viable fiscal position, however, depended
on the federal government (i) agreeing to a debt restructuring (bond debt and BANERJ debt) ; and (ii)
passing the federal administration reform amendment, including the elimination of full tenure of civil
servants. Both were conditions of negotiations.
5.   In May 1996, when it became clear that constitutional reform would be delayed, the
requirement for an amendment to the Constitution was dropped. A debt protocol with the state of Rio
de Janeiro was agreed upon in January 1997. However, the Bank considered that the agreed debt
workout did not put the state in a condition to become more creditworthy by the end of the current
administration: the state would continue to have a negative operational deficit in the foreseeable
future; it would continue to accumulate debt arrears, and the stock of debt-to-revenue ratio would
continue to grow.  The Bank then agreed with the state government to change the design of the
project, dropping all aspects related to administrative and financial reforms (including the large
technical assistance component supporting these reforms), and improvements in fiscal performance.
The project was limited to supporting the privatization/concession program and the development of a
regulatory framework for the private provision of public services, the only components sustainable by
themselves (with very limited fiscal indicators to guard against reckless fiscal behavior). The loan
amount was reduced from US$300 million to US$250 million.
6.    Assessment of Objectives and Design . The objectives of the project were clear and realistic,
though ambitious and demanding within its short three-year implementation period spanning less
than one state administration. Objectives did not change during implementation. The project design,
however, was initially somewhat constrained by the lack of a lending instrument suited to this type of
operation. This was formally an investment project, but with characteristics of an adjustment
operation (which it could not be because of insufficient link with the country's macroeconomic
framework and lack of an agreement with the IMF at the time).  The Bank eventually showed
flexibility by agreeing to disburse against salaries of FLUMITRENS (as part of the incremental
recurrent costs of its reform, after the federal government transferred the rail system to the state) and
the cost of personnel retrenchment, which did not require procurement oversight by the Bank. It also
accepted an unusually high percentage of retroactive financing (50%) and a large special account of
US$50 million (which ended up not being used due to the actually short disbursement period) to meet
the project's fast disbursement requirements. However, other similar operations might not have
sufficient expenditures related to the reform while not linked to procurement rules and schedules, and
might thus be excluded from Bank lending despite their large benefits. This type of operation
warrants the development of a specific lending instrument.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
(a) Implementation of the Privatization/Concession Program
7.    With the exception of CEDAE, the water and sanitation company, all planned
privatization/concession transactions were completed by December 31, 1998, the original closing
date. Extensive restructuring in preparation for privatization or concession started in 1995 in most of
the enterprises included in the program. The timing of the various steps in the process, prices
obtained compared with established minimum prices, payment schedules and currencies, and new



3
ownership structures are presented in Tables 5A through 5C. The following paragraphs describe
some of the major issues faced in the course of implementation.
8.    BANERJ. BANERJ had been in a weak financial condition since the early nineties, due to a
long history of overstaffing, over-extended branching and bad loan decisions. It began incurring
substantial losses after the introduction of the Piano Real in July 1994, which reached R$715 million
in 1995, despite Central Bank intervention. BANERJ net worth declined to a negative amount of
R$1.9 billion by the end of 1995. In December 1995, monthly operational results (operating
revenues, less operating costs) had reached R$-35 million per month, equivalent to R$-420 million
per year. With growing financial charges incurred to finance the growing negative net worth (about
R$40 million per month), net losses of BANERJ amounted to R$-75 million per month in December
1995, equivalent to R$-900 million per year. In agreement with the Central Bank, the state
government contracted a private bank to manage BANERJ for one year (in 1996) and prepare it for
either privatization or liquidation. The tender for the management and privatization contract was won
by the private investment bank Banco Bozano Simonsen (BBS) in December 1995. A detailed
account of the preparation and privatization process is presented in Annex 1.
9.    Under private management, BANERJ's operations were extensively restructured. Operating
losses were eliminated. However, in the first semester of 1996, hidden liabilities of unexpected
magnitude, including unfunded pension liabilities amounting to R$2.1 billion, and fiscal and other
contingent liabilities totaling close to R$1.0 billion were identified. Consequently, in mid-1996, the
decision was taken to split BANERJ in two entities. A commercially viable entity (Banco BANERJ)
was created, with banking assets consisting of R$3.1 billion of government bonds (initially state
bonds, which were converted into federal titles before privatization), a loan portfolio with normal
business risks, clearly identified liabilities, and an equity of R$ 181 million. The remaining assets and
liabilities were transferred to a residual entity, Banco do Estado, including the R$3.3 billion debt to
the Central Bank incurred to allow the capitalization and build-up of the asset base of Banco
BANERJ, pension and other hidden liabilities estimated to amount to R$3.1 billion, and assets with
liquidity problems valued at about R$ 1.9 million as of October 1997.
10.   Banco BANERJ was to be sold at the end of 1996, but was actually sold on June 27, 1997 to
Banco Itau for the minimum price of R$311 million, about six months behind schedule. Delays were
due to difficulties in securing funding for the state to assume pension liabilities of BANERJ and
Previ-BANERJ and other contingent liabilities: employees unrest, court actions initiated by them, and
their refusal to negotiate a solution to the deficit of Previ-BANERJ, had scared away prospective
buyers who were afraid that Banco BANERJ would remain liable for these claims once privatized
and wanted the state to secure reserved funding to meet them.  Financing from the federal
government for these liabilities (as well as liabilities of Banco do Estado to the Central Bank) was
agreed in principle as part of the January 1997 debt protocol, but formalization of the agreement was
not forthcoming. A bridge loan of R$3.1 billion was eventually obtained from Caixa Economica
Federal-CEF to constitute funds- the so-called Contas A and B administered by CEF- to cover these
liabilities. Further delays then occurred as the state needed to obtain the necessary legal and
budgetary authorizations from the state assembly to pay the complementary retirement benefits due
by BANERJ and which could not legally be paid by Banco do Estado -- the authorization was finally
obtained only in June 1997, and the auction took place shortly after.
11.   The liquidation of Banco do Estado was decreed in December 1996 and that of Previ-
BANERJ, the BANERJ pension fund, in January 1997. Both are still proceeding. The liquidation of
Banco do Estado cannot be completed until the debt agreement between the state and the federal



4
government becomes effective, so that Banco do Estado's debt to the Central Bank can be paid-off (it
is estimated to have increased to R$3.9 million by mid-1998, due to capitalization of interest). In
mid-1998, the remaining assets were estimated at about R$1.7 billion. A further R$1.6 billion in
contingent liabilities (resulting from legal actions) have been identified by the liquidator since
October 1997, which the state will assume and for which an additional loan from CEF of R$1.2
billion has been obtained. After liquidation, the proceeds of asset sales will be used to cover the
balance of contingent liabilities (R$0.4 billion) and the balance (R$1.3 billion) will be transferred to
the state treasury.
12.   The liquidation of Previ-BANERJ is also proceeding. All liabilities of Previ-BANERJ
(financed under Conta A of the CEF fund) will be formally transferred to the state government as
soon as a contract has been signed betwen Previ-BANERJ, the state, and each participant. As of
January 1999, over 95% of participants had signed the contract. Previ-BANERJ is also facing
potential "hidden" labor liabilities of its own: until its liquidation was decreed, Previ-BANERJ had no
staff of its own, but was operated by BANERJ staff. About 2,500 legal actions, initiated by this
former staff against Previ-BANERJ, are being processed. The magnitude of these potential liabilities
is not known yet. These are not covered under the Guarantee Funds mentioned earlier (labor
liabilities are covered only when impacting on Banco BANERJ S.A).  Paying-off these labor
liabilities may well absorb a substantial portion (if not all) of the proceeds of the sale of the Previ-
BANERJ's assets (investments), which, in May 1996, were estimated to amount to about R$450
million. Any surplus will revert to the state (deposited into the Guarantee Funds) when liquidation is
completed.
13.   CERJ.  This state electricity utility did not receive direct subsidies from the state prior to
privatization, but was overstaffed, showed heavy technical and commercial losses and had delayed
urgent investment programs for years. It was privatized in November 1996, and the concession
contract was signed in early December 1996. CERJ was purchased by a consortium composed of two
companies (Empresa Electrica de Panama S.A and Sociedade Panamena de Electricidad) controlled
by Chile's Chilectra, EDP Eletricidade de Portugal S.A and Endesa Desarrollo S.A. It was sold for
R$605 million (excluding the employees'offering), with a premium of 30% over the minimum price
(see details in Annex 2).
14.   CEG and RIOGAS.  The strategy of the state in the gas sector was to award two
concessions, one for the metropolitan region, which consisted of the existing CEG network, and one
for the rest of the state. Although a constitutional amendment had clarified that states had the
monopoly of gas distribution, PETROBRAS was supplying gas directly to a number of large users,
mostly in the Paraiba Valley. After protracted negotiations with PETROBRAS, a subsidiary of CEG
was created (RIOGAS) to which these users were transferred, and in which PETROBRAS
participated with 25% of capital. RIOGAS also received the monopoly for gas distribution outside
the metropolitan region.
15.   To prepare for privatization of CEG and RIOGAS, the state carried out cost reduction
programs, including staff retrenchment in CEG, decreasing total staff from 1,847 employees at the
end of 1995 to 1,157 in early 1997, shortly before it was privatized, a 40% reduction. With these
programs, financial losses were reduced by half relative to 1994 (to -R$5 million). The state
legislature also passed a law which established the tariff structure applicable in the entire state and
criteria for revisions (March 3, 1997).



5
16.   CEG and RIOGAS were auctioned simultaneously in July 1997. Although the edital allowed
separate bids for each company, and/or bids for both companies, both companies were sold to the
same consortium, which offered the highest combined price. The new controller of CEG and
RIOGAS is a consortiurn consisting of Gas Natural SDG (Spain), the operator, ENRON, Iberdrola
(Portugal) and Pluspetrol (Argentina). Both companies were sold for a total price of R$622.1 million
(excluding employees' offering), with a premium of 75% (86% for CEG and 50% for RIOGAS).
17.   METRO. In 1995, operation of METRO costed the state budget operating subsidies of
R$109 million. Restructuring measures were taken in 1996 and 1997 to reduce this subsidy,
principally through personnel reduction (from 3,272 in 1995 to 2,394 in 1997), cuts in benefits, and
programs to control fare evasion. However, these measures only succeeded in reducing the annual
subsidy to R$106 million in 1996 and R$91 million in 1997.
18.   Considerable discussions took place regarding the choice of the concession model, as many
investments to extend the lines and rehabilitate rolling stock were underway, with BNDES financial
assistance. Also, a major issue was whether to include the proposed extension to Barra da Tijuca as
an obligation of the concessionaire. Eventually, in May 1997, the government decided to concede the
operation of METRO only, leaving the extension to Barra to be awarded separately. Ongoing
investments would be the responsibility for the state to complete and deliver to the concessionaire.
19.   Financial projections carried out by the financial advisers, however, showed that the operation
would still require subsidy payments at current fares. In order to have a positive concession, the
government took the following decisions: (a) fares were increased from R$0.5 to R$l per trip in
December 1996; (b) the state would assume all unwanted labor by the concessionaire by the date of
take-over'; and (c) in case of delay in delivery of completed investments by the state, the
concessionaire would not be liable for the lease payments.
20.   Bidding documents were published on November 14, 1997. The concession was awarded on
December 19, 1997, to the OPPORTRANS consortium, composed of a Brazilian investment bank
(SOROCABA) and COMETRANS, the owner of the Buenos Aires metro concession.
OPPORTRANS'offer was R$291.6 million, equivalent to a present value of R$171 million, or about
500% over the minimum price of R$28.6 million.
21.   FLUMITRENS. In December 1994, FLUMITRENS, the suburban railways company, was
transferred from the federal government to the state. With high labor costs, declining ridership due
to poor service and lack of maintenance, in 1995, operation of the network required an annual
subsidy of R$187 million. The government initial strategy called for a combination of restructuring
measures to decrease the level of annual subsidies by two third by 1998, privatization of
management, and/or outright concession. Studies were contracted (with Bank support) to review
options. At the end of 1996, the decision was taken to concession the services.
Three approaches were possible: (a) make the concessionnaire take everyone under the current conditions, which
would have guaranteed a negative concession, for which the government was unwilling to pay; (b) let the
concessionnaire hire who they wanted, with a government obligation to pay labor redundancies, which would
produce a large positive concession; and (c) an in between approach, as in RFFSA, in which the Brazilian federal
government paid-down the labor force by a certain percentage (about 40%) and the concessionnaire had the option to
buy it down further with private money, but with guaranteed applicability of the government terms. The Rio state
government selected the second option.



6
22.   Extensive restructuring took place starting 1996, resulting in decreases in the level of
operating subsidies to R$155 million in 1996 and R$148 million in 1997 This was achieved largely
through personnel reductions (from 7,871 in 1995 to 4,700 in 1997) and other restructuring measures
aiming at rationalizing maintenance and reducing fare evasion. But financial projections carried out
by the consultants hired as financial advisers showed that, at current fare levels, significant subsidies
would still be required after concessioning. In order to ensure that state budget commitments to a
multi-year program of payments was legally possible, a change to the state concession law had to be
passed to allow for negative concessions. The government was slow to process this change, which
took a year (the law was eventually passed in November 1997). In the meantime, preparation works
considerably slowed down.
23.   Another difficulty was that the viability of the concession critically depended on the
implementation of a US$372 million rehabilitation program for which the state had applied for a
US$200 million loan from the World Bank. The project was approved by the Board only in 1998
(Rio Mass Transit Project), because clearance by the federal government was upheld pending the
outcome of debt negotiations. Subsequently, approval of the federal guarantee by the Senate suffered
further delays until March 1999, when it was finally approved as a result of the efforts of the newly-
elected Governor. The concession process thus had to proceed within a context of uncertainty
regarding the source of funding of a critical program under the responsibility of the state.
Furthermore, implementation of Bank-financed investments by a private concessionaire raised
procurement issues. The Bank advocated early-on (end of 1996) that, in order for the concessionaire
to be free to carry out its own procurement, the concession itself would have to be tendered following
Bank Guidelines for concessions. The state, however, did not address this issue until late, at which
point there was no sufficient time left for pre-qualification according to Bank rules. Eventually, the
government decided that the state itself would implement procurement of the project and transfer the
investments to the concessionaire once completed-a situation that the Bank triled hard to avoid.
24.   In February 1998, faced with the prospects of large fiscal constraints in the coming years, and
encouraged by the results of the METRO concession (in spite of political criticisms to the state for
having set a too low minimum price) the state government decided to change the concession from a
negative to a positive concession. In order to turn the net present value from negative to positive, the
governnent decided: (a) to allow increases in the maximum tariff from R$0.60 per trip to R$0.90
upon provision of air conditioning in the trains; (b) transfer the cash flows from METRO lease
payments to the concessionaire over a period to be proposed by the concessionaire in its bid (with a
commitment to assume these payments, should the METRO concessionaire default); (c) commit to
provide the entire funding for the Rio Mass Transit Project if the federal guarantee was not approved;
(d) exclude 64 kilometers of rail tracks whose viability was questionable; and (e) assume the costs of
all personnel unwanted by the concessionaire by the end of the transition periocd (between signing and
take-over).
25.   After two rounds of pre-qualification, the concession was awarded on July 15, 1998, to a
spanish consortium (Bolsa 2000). The winner offered the minimum price (R$36.2 million), offered
to assume the entire state counterpart funds to the Rio Mass Transit Project (RS 183.5 million), and to
only request the first 28 monthly lease payments from METRO (renouncing all others amounting to
R$59.9 million). Overall, the offer (R$279.7 million), was 671% above the minimum price.
26.   Other Urban Transport Companies. Also included under the project, were the concession
of CONERJ, a ferry service; the liquidation of CTC and SERVE, two bus companies; and the
concession or sale of major assets of CODERTE, the state bus terminal operator.



7
27.   CONERJ, which required annual operating subsidies of R$30 million in 1995,  was
concessioned in May 1998, for the minimum price. CTC and SERVE are under liquidation: buses
and routes have been sold. Staff, originally about 2,500 in 1995, are now down to 332 (October
1998). CODERTE, the bus terminal operating company, could not be concessioned: it still continues
to operate some 20 terminals throughout the state. However, the Menezes Cortes bus terminal and
parking garage in the center of Rio (TGMC), its major real estate asset, was sold. About 100 of
TGMC personnel were absorbed by the state, which also rented the bus terminal portion of the
building to continue its operation and one parking floor for its own needs.
28.   Water and Sanitation. For reasons explained below, CEDAE was not concessioned, despite
extensive preparations and efforts by the state government, and publishing of the bidding documents.
This is the one major objective of the project which was not achieved.
29.   The original timetable followed by state's financial advisors for the privatization of the water
and sanitation company, CEDAE, through the sale of its shares and concession of its services, called
for the completion of preliminary bidding documents in December 1997 and a sealed bids auction in
May 1998. However, although preliminary draft bidding documents for the privatization of CEDAE
were issued in mid-February 1998, final bidding documents were published only on September 15,
1998, a few weeks before elections.
30.   Considerable time was taken in defining a privatization strategy in the absence of an
agreement between the state and the municipalities2, and in addressing a number of complex issues
related to tariff adjustments, treatment of labor liabilities, the role of the state regulatory entity in
contract supervision, the obligation of service in low-income areas, and the transfer of IDB and
OECF financed investments programs (Guanabara Bay pollution Control) to the privatized CEDAE.
Rio de Janeiro was the first state in Brazil to attempt to concession all its water and sanitation
services at once.
31.   The main difficulty, however, was constitutional ambiguity regarding conceding power for
water and sewerage services in metropolitan regions, where these services are shared among various
municipalities. This required the state to ensure the adhesion of key municipalities to renew the
concession of their services to CEDAE, before the state could attract bidders for its privatization.
However, key municipalities, including Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro and San Goncalo, were against state
concession and decided to concede their own water distribution and sanitation services. Confronted
with this situation, the state government prepared a complementary law, which was approved by the
state assembly at the end of 1997. It instituted the Rio's metropolitan region and declared water and
sanitation services of common interest. This law was challenged by municipalities and privatization
remained pending a decision of the Federal Supreme Court on the constitutionality of the state
complementary law. As of April 1999, this decision was still pending.
32.   In November 1998, as recommended by the Bank since May 1997, the state finally reached an
agreement with 15 municipalities of the metropolitan region on the sharing of privatization proceeds,
and the auction was finally scheduled for November 30, 19993, without further awaiting for an
official ruling from the Federal Supreme Court. However, this agreement came too late. In October,
2 In particular with the municipality of Rio de Rio de Janeiro, the residents of which account for about two thirds of the
state public services.
3Niteroi, Nilopolis, San Goncalo and Sao Joan de Meriti decided to remain out of the auction. The number of people to
be served by the concessionaire was thus 8.9 million instead of 10.9 million. The minimum price was revised
consequently.



8
a new Governor had been elected, who had declared his opposition to the privatization of CEDAE.
The sale was finally blocked by a law enacted by the state assembly overriding the veto of the
governor on December 2, 1998 revoking the inclusion of CEDAE in the state privatization program.
At the beginning of January, a few days after taking office, the new administration requested a one-
year extension of the loan closing date to continue working on the reform of CEDAE. Essentially,
the new government strategy was to appoint a professional and qualified team to improve CEDAE
management and to allow for a reasonable period before making a final decision on the most
appropriate institutional model. The Governor's plan called for the dissemination of 60% of
CEDAE's shares in the public, with the remaining 40% of the shares allocated between the state and
its main municipalities, and a management contract, if necessary to strengthen the management
capacity of the company. The Bank considered the proposed strategy too limited and slow and
decided to maintain the loan closing date at December 31, 1998. Since then, the state has been
negotiating with the municipality of Rio the transfer of the Barra da Tijuca water and sanitation
system to the municipality, but has not confirmed yet its plans with respect to the rest of CEDAE.
(b) Institutional Objectives: Establishment of a Regulatory Agency
33.  In March 1996, after extensive discussions with the Bank during project pre-appraisal, the
government proposed the establishment of a regulatory framework capable of protecting consumers
from the possible misuse of monopoly power, provide investors incentives for efficient investment
and operation, and with an assurance that they would be permitted to recover a fair return on their
investment. Responsibilities would include administering tariff adjustment rules and supervising
concessionaire's compliance with regulatory norms.  It was agreed with the Bank that: (i) a
regulatory law would be prepared and approved by the state assembly before the end of June 1996;
(ii) commissioners would be appointed before September 1996; and (iii) the regulation agency would
be established and functioning, before the first concession is granted. This would be a single small,
strong and professional agency, with responsibility for all public services within the competence of
the state, financial independence, and insulation from day to day political pressures. Finally,
commissioners were to be appointed based on professional qualifications and would enjoy protection
from arbitrary removal during their fixed term.
34.   One article of the privatization law of November 1995, enabled the government to create a
multi-sectoral regulatory entity. However, rather than setting up the new institution by decree, the
government opted to do so through a specific law, to promote debate of the proposed regulation
framework within the government and the state assembly and guarantee independence of the new
agency. The draft law was submitted to the Assembly in December 1996 and was approved on
February 13, 1997, about 7 months behind schedule.
35.   Appointment of commissioners was very slow as it required the state assembly to approve
names proposed by the Governor. It is only on November 20, 1997, with about one year delay, that
the state assembly approved the name of three commissioners, out of a list of five names indicated by
the government, (the regulatory agency (ASEP) law specified that it would have five commissioners).
Due to these delays, ASEP only started its preliminary organizational activities in December 1997, at
which time, CERJ, CEG, RIOGAS, and METRO had already been concessionned. During 1998, the
establishment of ASEP proceeded at a good pace: the remaining two commissioners were appointed
and approved in the second semester, the operational structure was defined and implemented, two
commissioners were trained in the Bank's regulatory program at the university of Florida, internal
regulations governing processes were developed, most personnel was hired, the permanent
procurement commission was established and offices were organized. At mid-term review in July



9
1998 and during supervision at the end of November 1998, despite shortcomings in the agency's
financial and administrative autonomy, the Bank found the operating structure generally satisfactory.
36.   As of December 1998, ASEP's operational structure consisted of: a five- member
commission, including the President and the Executive secretary; four technical groups for transport,
energy, water and sanitation, and public audience; and legal, financial, administrative and audit
support departments. A total of 52 staff had been appointed, out of 60 planned. Also, technical
assistance contracts had been signed with PUC-RIO and CPUERJ universities. Finally, on December
2, 1998, a five-year agreement was signed with the federal electricity regulatory agency (ANEEL)
which delegated part of the regulatory and control activities in the electricity distribution sector to the
state, including supervision of the concessionaires LIGHT, CERJ and CFFL. This agreement
represented an incremental revenue of about R$4 million per year for ASEP.
37.   From April to December 1998, ASEP organized 15 regulatory sessions, open to the public, to
analyze and vote on 74 regulatory processes (including 26 related to CEG and RIOGAS, 12 to
OPPORTRANS, and three to SUPERVIA).
38.   ASEP's investments and expenditures in 1998 totaled about R$2.25 million. Revenues from
the regulatory fee paid by the concessionaires accounted for about R$ 1.5 million; and R$1.7 million
came from the state budget4, of which only R$0.66 million were needed in 1998, and R$84 thousand
from financial revenues.
39.   In order to strengthen the financial and administrative autonomy of ASEP, the government
proposed amendments to its law to increase its total staffing, increase the regulatory fee from 12% to
1% (2% for water and sanitation services), and increase protection of commissioners from arbitrary
removal during their fixed term. However, the state assembly voted against these amendments.
40.   In January 1999, the newly elected Governor announced its intention to change the regulatory
framework established by the previous administration, by splitting ASEP in two agencies, one
specific to the transport sector and the second for the energy and the water and sanitation sectors and
changing the mandate of commissioners. New draft laws to that effect are reportedly under
preparation. In March 1999, except for the commissioners and some secretarial support, all ASEP
staff had been removed, effectively impeding the functioning of the agency. The main objection of
the new administration to the regulatory structure established by the previous administration is that
the transport sector is too complicated and needs a specific regulatory agency which should supervise
the entire sector, including bus companies which are not currently under the purview of ASEP.
However, the following criticisms have also contributed to the government decision: (i) apparent
conflict of interest of the five commissioners, which all have been involved in the privatization
process and/or in the management of the privatized companies; (ii) the incoming government has to
work, practically during its entire mandate, with a regulatory agency, whose commissioners were
nominated by the out-going government - this could have been avoided by providing for example
for the replacement of part of the commissioners immediately after a new government take office;
and (iii) the need for the transport secretariat to use part of the large staff inherited from METRO and
FLUMITRENS.
41.   The objective of establishing a strong, regulatory agency with full autonomy and
independence was thus achieved, but is in danger of being reversed. -- In spite of the long delays
4out of a special credit of RS2 million allocated to ASEP by state decree on December 31, 1997.



10
commented above, ASEP's commissioners were nominated for fixed mandates, remote possibility of
removal, and compatible remuneration; and beginning of 1999, before its operations were halted by
the new government, ASEP had practically completed its establishment and started to improve its
supervision capacity and to be really operational. From its short operating life, one may derive the
following conclusions:
42.   Due to lack of administrative and legislative continuity from one administration to the other, it
seems that regulatory agencies with their full characteristics of independence and autonomy can be
established and maintained in Brazil only if constitutional status is given to them. Also, a federal law
could define minimum requirements for state regulatory agencies.
43.   As often commented by Bank missions, responsibilities cannot be split between the regulatory
agency and the existing secretariats. This will result in confusion, infighting and regulatory risks.
Also, in the case of FLUMITRENS and METRO, the use of the remnant companies to supervise the
concessionaires may have perverse effects, as it may create groups with vested interests in securing
their own survival and in the failure of the concession.
44.   The new arbitration law does not apply to the public sector and consequently ASEP decisions
are not biding, as those of an arbitrator. Any party unhappy with an ASEP decision can go to a first
instance court and paralyze its execution.  Although this did not occur in 1998, it may become
necessary to establish rules which can impede the grant of preliminary injunctions by regular courts
and give regulatory agencies decisions the status of first instance judicial decisions.
( c ) Environmental Objectives
45.   In the last ten years the main state environmental agency " Fundacao Estadual de Engenharia
de Meio Ambiante" (FEEMA) underwent a drastic decline caused by poor political and financial
support and weak strategic direction. Because of the strong linkage between the environmental
management system and the reform of the water and sanitation sector, it was agreed during project
preparation that safeguards would be built against possible negative environmental impacts of the
project program.  The project also sought to actively contribute to improved environment
management by the state. In 1996, the state had recognized the serious problems of its environmental
management system and decided to embark on an ambitious environmental sector reform program
including: (i) restructuring of environmental agencies and establishment of accountability; (ii) reform
of the staffing and budgeting system; (iii) modernization of instruments of environmental
management; and (iv) integration of environmental objectives into the restructuring and privatization
of state enterprises. More specifically, the state intended to complete the development of an
environmental action plan early in 1998, restructure environmental agencies as part of the overall
state administration reform, and present a bill to the Assembly to introduce a comprehensive system
of water basin management. These objectives were stated in the staff Appraisal Report, although the
project did not contain any specific commitment to implement them.
46.   Except for measures taken to integrate environmental objectives into the restructuring and
privatization of state enterprises, very little was implemented to reform the environmental sector,
probably as a result of: (i) delays in administrative reform; and (ii) the very bad financial situation of
the state. Also, changes in the management of FEEMA may have reduced commitment and
willingness to reform. Finally, the privatization of CEDAE was expected to have a significant
positive environmental effect and could have contributed greatly to improve environmental



11
management in the state. Because the privatization of CEDAE did not take place, this objective was
not met.
47.   It was agreed during project preparation that environmental and safety audits would be
conducted in companies to be privatized or concessioned, to identify environmental problems and
recommend solutions along with estimated costs. As part of the mandate of financial advisors in
charge of preparing and promoting the concessions and/or privatizations, diagnostic and
environmental and safety studies were undertaken for CERJ, CEG, METRO and FLUMITRENS.
These studies found out that most installations of METRO, and all installations of FLUMITRENS,
CEG and CERJ were not environmentally licensed. They also found that, in all these companies,
though to a lesser extent in CERJ, liquid effluents, gas emissions and solid waste control measures
were non-existent or very poor, no environmental policy was defined, and no formal environmental
management system was in place; no emergency plans existed; and no environmental monitoring and
periodic environmental audits were performed, as required by the state law. From detailed
environmental and safety diagnostics and assessments of the installations, the consultants
recommended a series of mitigation measures and their estimated cost, aiming at reaching
environmental and safety conformity with existing environmental regulations. These audits and the
consultant recommendations were available to bidders. Concessionaires are under the obligation to
comply with all environmental and safety regulations, resulting in a positive environmental impact of
the project.
48.  It was estimated that, if the concessions were well designed, increased participation of the
private sector in the water and sanitation sector would generate the financing needed to expand basic
sanitation services and associated wastewater treatment, resulting in a significant positive
environment impact of the project. A set of treatment and environmental targets, that privatized
companies would have to comply with, was developed in coordination with the water/sanitation
sector and the environment sector, and was included in the bidding documents for CEDAE. Finally,
formal coordination mechanisms between the environmental regulator and ASEP were to be
established.
(d) Fiscal Objectives
49.   During the disbursement period, the project would monitor the state's investment program
and fiscal performance. The objective was not to induce improvement in the state's fiscal situation,
since the conclusion of the federal-state debt negotiations did not permit fiscal recovery. Rather, the
objective was to permit the Bank to halt disbursements of project funds in the event that the state
engaged in reckless fiscal behavior.
50.   The state and the Bank agreed on a program of investments to be undertaken in 1997
(including a list of major projects and their financing sources, presented in Table 5D). Compliance
with this program would be a condition of disbursement for the time slices of January-June 1998 and
for the time-slice related to the water and sanitation reform. At mid-term review (July 1998), the
state was found in compliance with this program in 1997. Investment spending in 1998 was
significantly above the target established for 1997. However, no project target had been established
for 1998.
51.   Targets were also established to limit the operational deficit in 1997 to 35% of net revenue
and the debt stock to revenue ratio to 2.85 to 1. The mid-term program review in July 1998 found
that the state had not met the operational deficit target in 1997, calculated at 49% instead of the



12
agreed 35%, due to unexpectedly high interest obligations: the target had been based on the
assumption that the debt to be refinanced under the debt protocol agreed in January 1997 would be
effective immediately, so that interest on refinanced debt was to be 7.5% in real terms. Instead,
interest on this debt continued to accumulate at prevailing overnight (SELIC) bond rates of 25% in
nominal terms (about 20% in real terns). The discrepancy between planned and actual rates
amounted to 16% of net current revenues. Since this was outside the control of the state government,
and the state had succeeded in reducing the primary deficit below the projected levels, the Bank
considered the government in agreement with the target. Total debt as of December 31, 1997 was
estimated at R$16.3 billion, 2.8 times revenue, consistent with the agreed target. Detailed calculation
of these ratios are presented in Table 5E.
52.   A subsequent review of data as of the end of August 1998 found that fiscal performnance had
substantially improved in the first half of 1998, due to increased tax revenues, interest earnings on
Contas A and B, and a 2% real drop in the wage bill. Operational deficit had fallen to 32% and the
stock of debt to revenue to 2.57.
53.   However, based on data for the whole year 1998 made available in April 1999, it appears that
performance deteriorated substantially in the second half of the year. In 1998, the operating deficit
increased substantially, to -96% of net current revenues. This was due to increases in personnel
expenditures (which increased to 88% of net current revenues) and in other current expenditures,
which significantly exceeded increases in tax revenues and in transfers from the federal government.
The stock of debt also increased, to 305% of net current revenues, mostly as a result of capitalization
of interest on existing debt, and incremental debts incurred to cover liabilities of Banco do Estado.
Finally, investment expenditures more than doubled relative to their 1997 levels, largely financed out
of privatization proceeds.
(e) Project Costs and Financing
54.   Actual project costs and financing, compared with appraisal estimates are presented in Tables
8A and 8B. Costs of reform to the state were higher than planned (about R$7.6 billion versus about
R$6.4 billion). The cost difference (R$1.2 billion) is due to increased costs of BANERJ privatization
(R$1.7 billion), and lower costs of right sizing the work force (substantially lower than expected
before privatization, and higher after privatization, due to permanence of staff in METRO,
FLUMITRENS). Total Bank financing was about US$200 million, compared with the initial loan
amount of US$250 million. The last US$50 million time-slice was cancelled, because it was linked
to the concession of CEDAE, which did not take place.
(f) Project Results and Benefits.
55.   BANERJ. Since privatization, BANERJ has been progressively absorbed into the operations
of Banco Itau, its new owner, although its agencies, name and commercial operations remain
separate. There is no separate published financial information on BANERJ. Itau is one of the
largest, very profitable, private, Brazilian Bank. The only post-privatization issue relate to the five-
year monopoly that BANERJ has over the management of government personnel payroll accounts.
PROCON data (subject to very cautious interpretation) does not show significant trends for
improvements.
56.   Issues with Design of Concessions. Experience after concession award highlights some
design issues in the METRO and FLUMITRENS concessions. In both cases, the contracts allowed



13
the concessionaires, during the transition period, to select the personnel it wished to retain, the
unwanted personnel remaining in the former METRO and FLUMITRENS companies, which were
left in existence. VvWhile it was expected that the concessionaires would reduce staff further, they did
so in unexpected large numbers: OPPORTRANS retained only 569 employees out of the 1,400
METRO employees in the month before concessioning, and subsequently hired another 640 new
employees from outside. SUPERVIA retained only 1,036 out of the 4,170 employees in the month
before concessioning, and re-hired another 1,013 from outside. They did so to reduce costs (new
hires being substantially cheaper) and to help change the work ethics in the companies. However,
this left the state government with a staff of 840 in METRO and 3,134 in FLUMITRENS, costing the
state treasury a monthly payroll of R$8.2 million , or the equivalent of R$106 million per year
(compared with operating subsidies of R$246 million in 1997). In retrospect, even when there is a
need to ensure a positive concession, there should be a pre-defined limitation on the total cost of
retrenchment that the government should assume for several reasons: transparency, better definition
of the minimum price, budget planning, lower political cost to the government by leaving additional
retrenchment to the concessionnaire. This, however, would require that: (a) a realistic assessment of
personnel requirements and retrenchment costs be made by consultants with actual experience in
successfully restructured rail systems, whether in the same country or outside; (b) the cost of
retrenchment to be borne by the government to ensure a positive concession be the base for financial
forecasts, the minimum price, and the bidding documents; (c) full funding for this program be
secured before the concession, with clearly earmarked funds and budget appropriations; and (d) the
bidding documents leave the choice of personnel to be retrenched to the concessionaire, but specify
that cost of retrenchment would be financed by the government up to the limit defined above, with
the concessionaire retaining the right to dismiss further personnel at its own cost.
57.  In addition, the maintenance of the former companies beyond the date of the concession may
have perverse effects, since it may create groups with vested interest in securing their own survival
and in the failure of the concession. In particular, this could encourage tendencies to maintain
excessive involvement in the details of planning and implementation of state-financed investments
and to get involved in the supervision of the concession (a function of ASEP). As a result, the
reform-privatization plan might have called for: (a) maintaining a very small Flumitrens only to
manage the remaining narrow-gauge diesel lines, until such time as a decision is taken (as soon as
possible) on its closure; (b) a small core team of the best specialists of Metro and Flumitrens to be
shifted to the Secretariat of Transport to provide continuous sector planning and supervise
implementation of government-funded urban transport projects, including the Rio Mass Transit
Project; (c) another small team of specialists to be shifted to ASEP to help in concession contracts
supervision; and (d) retrenchment of all remaining staff.
58.   Finally, when the state must deliver investments or assets to the concession, their
specifications should be much better detailed in the contract. The delivery provisions for METRO
are very vague, simply stating the list of new stations and rolling stock that must be delivered. This
has led to a conflict between the concessionaire and the state: the concessionaire argues that the
delivered assets are not fully completed and their operation is precarious and has refused to pay the
lease payments; the government argues that they are in a condition good enough since they are in use
and generating revenues. In the meantime, the feud also affects SUPERVIA, which is not receiving
the lease payments from OPPORTRANS, necessary for the rehabilitation of its own rolling stock (the
government is not complying with its obligation to assume these payments in case of default by
OPPORTRANS).



14
59.   Another design issue relates to the gas concessions. First, it would have been better to ensure
some competition between the two concessions, by not allowing the same group to win both
concessions. This could have been important for location choices of new large industrial users.
Furthermore, the contracts contain exclusivity provisions which may later prevent large users from
accessing competitive gas supplies directly from the transmission network, as now allowed under
federal regulations (August 1997). Despite Bank's advice to limit exclusivity provisions with respect
to large users as much as possible (in any case to no more than 7 to 10 years for CEG and 5 years for
RIOGAS), and warning that this may conflict with forthcoming federal regulations, both contracts
include much stronger provisions, providing complete exclusivity for 10 years (procurement of gas
from other sources requiring consent of the concessionaire). Beyond the first ten years, procurement
from other sources would also be difficult as the concessionaire would require users to pay a fee
equivalent to the difference between the maximum tariff for the category and the concessionaire's
cost of gas procurement from the same source.
60.   On the one hand, in the short and medium term, these exclusivity provisions are necessary to
provide incentives to the concessionaire for major network expansions and rehabilitations, and as
long as there is only one gas supplier in the country (PETROBRAS), the distribution concessionaire
should be protected against risks of unfair competition from the monopoly supplier. In addition, both
CEG and RIOGAS were privatized with demanding 10-year take or pay contracts with
PETROBRAS, and these provisions aimed at counterbalancing these obligations. On the other hand,
new federal regulations seek to promote competition in gas supply and therefore require that they
should be able to freely negotiate gas supplies and prices with large users. It is likely that, if gas
markets develop, these issues will be brought up at the time of tariff re-negotiations, and changes to
the tariff law will be required to separate the price of gas from that of distribution services and clearly
establish principles for their setting
61.   Quality of Public Services.  It is very early to assess the impact of privatization on the
quality of services Nevertheless, some preliminary conclusion are possible, based on data obtained
from the concessionaires, PROCONs and ASEP, as of March 1999 - At that time, CERJ had been
privately operated for two years, CEG and RIOGAS for a year and a half, METRO for about a year,
and FLUMITRENS for five months. A discussion of experience for each of these four major
concessions is presented in Annexes 2 to 5. Summary performance indicators are presented in Tables
6A though 6E.
62.   All four concessions show clear improvements in productivity, achieved through substantial
lay-off, reduction in losses and evasion, and more intensive use of the infrastructure. Sales in volume
and value have increased at rates substantially higher than in previous years. CEG and CERJ, for
which financial information is already available, show marked improvements in profitability.
Investments have been substantial. These trends are encouraging because at the time of tariff
revision they should lead to lower tariffs.
63.   All concessionaires initially prioritized restoring financial health, sometimes at the expense of
quality of service. The poor performance of CERJ at the end of 1997 and the beginning of 1998 led
to widespread customers dissatisfaction and into the intervention of ANEEL, the federal electricity
regulator, which imposed a R$800,000 fine on CERJ. This bad performance is reflected in
substantial increases in complaints with PROCONs (Table 6E) and, in 1997, worse system
performance indicators (number and duration of interruptions). SUPERVIA registered several
accidents in the initial months of operation, one of which led to a death. In both cases, this might
have been due to a combination of lack of knowledge of the infrastructure, haste in laying-off too



15
many employees knowledgeable with the system and excessive pushing of an infrastructure in worse
condition than concessionaires thought, to increase productivity.
64.   There are also encouraging signs. The performance of CERJ, in terms of interruptions,
improved in 1998 (DEC and FEC indexes) and the company is heavily investing to resolve the
system's problems. CEG has started the manufactured gas conversion program; ridership has
increased on both METRO and SUPERVIA; OPPORTRANS has increased the frequency of trains
and decreased travel times; and SUPERVIA has substantially improved regularity and timeliness.
All were implementing and had announced for the coming years investment programs significantly
above historical averages. Concession contracts contain many targets aiming at the quality of
service, which should be regularly monitored by ASEP. At the time of this report, however,
monitoring information was not available.
65.   Fiscal Impact. Table 9 presents the direct actual and future fiscal costs incurred by the state
treasury and the associated actual and projected fiscal benefits and savings as a result of the program,
for each one of the transactions supported under the project.
66.   The heaviest direct costs by far were those of privatizing BANERJ, for which the state
assumed debts amounting close to R$7 billion. However, these are not necessarily incremental costs,
compared to the two only other alternatives of recapitalizing BANERJ and maintaining it as a going
public bank, and of liquidation (Annex 1). Table 9 compares the actual cost with the cost of
maintaining BANERJ in operation as a going public bank. Regarding liquidation as an other
alternative, under Brazilian law, mixed companies cannot go bankrupt and, although their assets may
be liquidated, the controlling entities (the state government in this case) remain liable for all claims.
Thus, the state would have had to assume these liabilities in any case, and, in addition, would have
had to bear the financial and political cost of laying-off all personnel (7,345 in May 1997, shortly
before privatization, or about R$260 million, assuming average separation costs of R$35,000 per
employee). Thus the incremental costs of the selected option compared to liquidation are limited to
the equity injection into Banco BANERJ financed by the Treasury before its sale (R$181 million),
and incremental benefits are the proceeds of sale (R$311 million) and savings in lay-off costs (R$260
million).
67.   For urban transport, costs consisted of personnel retrenchment costs financed by the state
before and after privatization.  It has been assumed that personnel remaining in METRO,
FLUMITRENS, CTC and SERVE and TGMC would be kept on state payroll for six months, then
retrenched. Benefits consist of savings in operating subsidies achieved by the program, and the
proceeds of privatization. For energy concessions (CEG, RIOGAS and CERJ), there are only fiscal
benefits (proceeds of privatization), since personnel retrenchment programs before privatization were
financed out of company operations.
68.   Based on actual and expected yearly phasing of costs and benefits, the present value of net
benefits to the state treasury are significant, estimated at R$7.7 billion over a period of twenty years
(assuming a discount factor of 12% in real terms) (Base Case). Sensitivity tests show that: (a) net
present value would decrease to R$4.0 billion if the discount rate is 20%; (b) if BANERJ, as public
enterprise, had managed to eliminate its operating losses, the NPV would decrease to R$3.6 billion;
(c) with respect to METRO and FLUMITRENS, net fiscal impacts relative to the situation in 1995
are highly positive (close to R$2 billion), but if the state decides to keep all current employees of
METRO and FLUMITRENS in the payroll, the combined NPV of both would decrease to R$1.3



16
billion and total NPV of the project to R$7.1 billion; and (d) finally, if (b) and (c) were combined, the
NPV would still be about R$3.0 billion.
69.   Use of Privatization Proceeds.  The law that established the privatization program also
created a Social Mobilization Fund to which the proceeds of privatization would be allocated.
Initially, these proceeds were to be allocated exclusively to actions in the health and education sectors
and to debt reduction. Subsequently, an amendment to the law (May 10, 1996) significantly widened
the scope of eligible expenditures, to include infrastructure in general, mass transport, road
rehabilitation and construction, flood control, science and technology, land reform, and port and
energy development. Cash received from privatizations (totaling R$1.35 billion) were deposited into
the Social Mobilization Fund. Allocation of proceeds (commitments and disbursements) between
1996 and 1998, as of December 1998, are presented in Table 6F.
70.   Out of total commitments of R$1.12 billion, 81% was allocated to investments (R$907
million), 15% to debt reduction (R$165 million) and 4% (R$49 million) to other expenditures which
appear closer to recurrent expenditures than to investments. A balance of R$229.6 million remained
unallocated at the end of 1998.
71.   Of total investments, about 37% (R$340 million) were assigned to water and sanitation and
urban development programs (including Baixada Viva for about half of that amount). About 28%
(R$256 million) were assigned to mass transport (completion of METRO extension); 16% (R$147
million) to road infrastructure (over half assigned to Via Light, a major throughway in the Baixada
Fluminense); and the remaining 19% to flood control, health and education infrastructure and other
works. Health and education accounted for about 5% of commitments (R$49 million).
72.   With respect to the social impact of spending, one may estimate that over 60%  of
expenditures have a noticeable social impact. About half of investment expenditures benefit directly
or indirectly the poor segments of the population in the Baixada Fluminense: this includes most of
the water and sanitation and urban development programs, flood control, Via Light, and a large part
of METRO.
73.   It could be argued that the proceeds of sales should have been assigned in priority to
expenditures contributing more to sustained improvements in state finances, such as debt reduction or
build-up of self-sustained pension fumds for civil servants. Although the contribution of privatization
proceeds towards these aims would have been modest- at the end of 1997, total debt was R$16
billion and it grew to R$22 billion by the end of 1998, and the current administration estimates that a
self-sustainable pension fund for civil servants requires initial capitalization of at least R$ 15 billion-
it could have been more significant if CEDAE had been privatized.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
74.   The project was identified in October 1995 and was appraised less than eight months later, in
May 1996. However, the loan was negotiated only in February 1997, more than nine months later
and approved in July 1997, about 5 months after negotiation. Furthermore, the loan was signed only
in March 1998, eight months after Board approval and became effective in April 1998. Nevertheless,
because implementation of the privatization-concession program continued to proceed since project
preparation started, except for the concession of the Water and Sanitation (CEDAE) which did not
take place, the project objectives were substantially achieved without major delays and the loan was
closed as planned on December 31, 1998.



17
75.   As already commented the project was originally conceived to support broader reforms and
had the following conditions of negotiations: (i) a final agreement between the state of Rio de
Janeiro and the federal governments on the status of the bond and BANERJ debt; and (ii) passing of a
reform amendment to the federal constitution, which would remove the guarantee of civil servant's
employment stability. In May 1996, the Bank's Operations Committee removed the requirement for
the administrative reform amendment, but only in January 1997, did the state and federal
governments agreed on a debt protocol. However, the Bank considered the debt workout fairly
modest and decided to limit the project to supporting the state privatization/concession program. The
Government was then invited for negotiations, which took place in February 1997.
76.   The privatization program letter signed by the Governor, and evidence of the sale of the state
bank BANERJ S.A. were conditions to Board presentation. The policy letter was signed on March
17, 1997. However, BANERJ S.A. was sold only on June 26, 1997, about 6 months after the
scheduled date (December 17, 1996).
77.   After approval by the Bank's Board of Directors, the loan remained unsigned for about eight
months, due to many delays at the federal level, and despite many attempts by the state government
to get necessary federal government and senate approvals. Following the federal government's
announcement, in November 1997, of a package of fiscal reforms aimed at stabilizing the Real, the
state was requested to re-negotiate its debt with the federal government (the first debt protocol of
January 1997 was never formalized as a debt agreement) and to sign a debt agreement as a condition
of obtaining the federal government guarantee to the loan. Eventually, in January 1998, senate loan
approval was obtained. However, in early February, it was argued that approval was based on an
incorrect legal opinion from the central bank. Finally, in March 1998, the senate reconsidered its
opinion and approved the loan and federal guarantee agreements.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
78.   Privatizations and concessions are largely irreversible. For that reason, sustainability of the
project is likely. However, the degree to which project objectives are achieved and maintained, in
particular improved quality of service, critically depends on the ability of the state to build-up and
maintain a strong, competent, and independent regulatory agency (or agencies) capable of balancing
interests of the state, the concessionaires and the users. The weakening of ASEP and uncertainties
about institutional changes that will be implemented by the new administration, particularly regarding
the mandate of the agency commissioners and the role of state secretariats in monitoring and control,
are a matter of great concern. Reversal in this area was the main risk identified at appraisal.
79.   Fiscal savings associated with the elimination of operating subsidies are also pennanent, but
could be substantially less than expected unless the government takes action to extinguish the
remnant METRO and FLUMITRENS companies and dismiss or reassign their staff. This would also
ensure that structures are not maintained with an interest in excessive interference in, and control on,
the concessions.
80.   Finally, the implementation of the Rio Mass Transit Project is critical to the sustainability of
SUPERVIA, and it is essential that it should be implemented in close coordination with the
concessionaire.



18
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
81.   The Bank performance was highly satisfactory during identification, preparation and
appraisal, and satisfactory during project supervision.  The project design was realistic, given
government fiscal constraints at the time and difficulties in achieving sustained fiscal improvements
through broad stat'e reform. It was consistent with both the state and federal government strategies at
the time. Bank teams provided intensive technical assistance throughout preparation and appraisal
and most of implementation, in the modeling of concessions, the review of government consultants
work, the conception of the regulatory framework, the establishment of the regulatory agency, and
regulatory training of some of the commissioners. The Bank and the state government worked
closely together throughout the process. Continuity and quality of Bank's staff and consultants
involved in these discussions were excellent. All major risks were correctly identified, including the
danger of municipal opposition adversely affecting the privatization of CEDAE, and of the difficult
assimilation of a new regulatory framework not consistent with traditional institutional practice. The
Bank also warned the government early-on (as soon as in May 1997) about the need to reach
agreement with municipalities regarding the water and sanitation concession in general, and on the
sharing of concession proceeds. In particular the Bank pressed the state government to reach
agreement with the municipalities, but this pressure was ineffective in the context of pre-election
times and, finally, of an election year.
82.   The loan was designed to close on the last day in office of the administration with which it
had been negotiated. At the request of the incoming administration, loan closure was deferred to
permit a mission to visit Rio to assess the government's views on the privatization of CEDAE. On
the basis of this mission it became clear that the new administration did not see privatization as an
early possibility. The Bank therefore decided that other vehicles were more, appropriate to conduct
the dialogue with the state government, and proceeded to close the loan as per the original schedule,
while offering its assistance through other means. In retrospect, this design may have been too tight,
in that, it did not allow for possible slippages in an election year, nor did it allow sufficient time for
an incoming administration to develop its position on the program independent of the pressures of a
political campaign. Also, the Bank should have agreed to extend the closing date beyond the end of
the previous administration, to permit a continuation of the dialogue with the newly elected
government on issues such as the privatization of CEDAE and the functions and authority of the
regulatory agency, which is so critical to the sustainability of the project.
83.   Finally, for lack of a suitable lending instrument, this operation, which had most of the
characteristics of an adjustment operation, had to be processed as an investment operation. Although
the Bank showed flexibility by disbursing against recurrent expenditures and the cost of
redundancies, this had a rather convoluted justification. The Bank should have endeavored to
develop lending instruments better suited to the needs of this type of operation (particularly since this
was only one of three or four similar operations under preparation at the time).
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
84.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory.  The state government implemented an
ambitious program in a record three years. The program received strong, sustained commitment from
the Governor, the Vice Governor, the Secretary of Finance and the PED team, who must all be
commended for this unique performance. Responsibility for the program was rightly concentrated in
the secretariats of planning, then of finance, removing decision making from the sector secretariats,
which tend to be overly involved in the operations of the companies to be privatized, and may have



19
conflicts of interest, in particular with respect to their roles in regulation. The government was also
able to secure support from the Assembly for the passing of the necessary laws during most of its
mandate. The government complied with all covenants in the loan agreement.
85.   The government, however, erred in several important areas: (a) it was too slow in establishing
ASEP and appointing commissioners: only by the end of 1998 did ASEP began to become
operational, two years after the first concession (CERJ); (b) all commissioners appointed were
associated either with the privatization program or the companies which were privatized, which,
rightly or wrongly, ended up undermining the credibility of ASEP with the new State administration;
(c) despite Bank urging, the government did not seek an agreement with the municipalities regarding
the sharing of CEDAE privatization proceeds until too late; and (d) the government insisted on
attempting to privatize CEDAE during the transition government, which pushed the newly-elected
governor and the state Assembly (which had so far been very supportive) into adverse positions
difficult to reverse later-on; (e) although the government did use funding from Caixa Economica
(R$52 million) to pay for retrenchment costs of significant numbers of employees in all urban
transport companies prior to 1998, it did not sufficiently assess the cost of additional personnel
retrenchment in METRO and FLUMITRENS and secure and budget the necessary funds, leaving the
political and a financial cost of undefined magnitude to the next government.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
86.   The outcome of the project was satisfactory: it achieved most of its major privatization
objectives (the only exception being the concession of water and sanitation services) and has
established a supportive albeit vulnerable regulatory framework.  Despite current uncertainties
regarding the fate of the regulatory agency, sustainability of its achievements is likely because
privatizations are largely irreversible.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
87.   The new administration plans for the future of ASEP are not clear, yet this agency is critical
to ensure substantial achievement of project objectives.  It is essential that it should remain
independent in its decision making and autonomous in its management, and with clear lines of
responsibilities relative to the sector secretariats. It is important that the Bank, which was very
instrumental in the adoption of the ASEP model by the state of Rio should re-start and maintain a
dialogue with the new state government on this matter.
88.   Also, although the privatization of CEDAE has not taken place, there was considerable
discussion around the concession model, the financial projections, and the bidding documents during
preparation of the concession (which was stopped after publication of the bidding documents). The
Bank had a large influence on the model that was eventually adopted. It is important that all the
thinking and justifications which supported the selected choices be passed-on to the new
administration, even if its chooses a different strategy. If the loan had not been closed so soon, this
would have been easy. Today, the Bank must seek a different platform.
89.   Finally, the Bank should assist the Government in expediting the extinction of the remnant
companies of METRO and FLUMITRENS. One way of doing so would be for the Bank to fund at
least part of the cost of redundancies under the Mass Transit Project. It may be possible to free funds
from the loan for that purpose without prejudice to planned investments, given the recent large



20
devaluation of the currency.  This possibility is already under discussion with the new state
government.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
90.   Commitment. The effective and timely implementation of a large privatization/concession
program demands the full and sustained commitment of the state administration at the highest levels
of government. It also requires that ultimate control of the program and decision making be outside
the sector secretariats which oversee the companies to be privatized.
91.   Regulatory Agencies.  The major lessons arising from  this operation relate to the
establishment and status of regulatory agencies in Brazil:
92.   State government and legislative assemblies may relatively easily reverse a regulatory
framework established by their predecessors. This is of great concern, however, because the security
of a relatively stable and independent regulatory process is normally a key element in attracting (and
maintaining) interest from the private sector in the provision of public services. It is suggested that
matters related to the mandate of commissioners and the administrative autonomy of regulatory
agencies should be established in higher law, such as state constitutions or federal regulations
applicable to all such regulatory agencies. The Bank might discuss this matter with the federal
government in the framework of the general country dialogue.
93.   The arbitration and control powers of regulatory agencies are eroded by the fact that any of
their decisions can be appealed in any first instance court. This may encourage systematic appeals of
decisions or direct submission of claims to courts, as has happened already in Rio, which may take
years to resolve a problem since regulatory agencies are established precisely to avoid lengthy court
cases. Also, first instance judges are not normally familiar with regulatory issues. This problem is
common to all regulatory agencies in Brazil, and its solution would require legal changes at the
federal level, giving the agencies status of first instance court (appeal would r emain possible only to
second instance courts);
94.   State governments should be careful to avoid appointing commissioners with real or
perceived conflict of interest, having participated in the privatization process or managed the
privatized companies during preparation. Also, the appointment of commissioners should be phased
in such a way that the mandate of some commissioners expires soon after a new administrations takes
office (subject to the same process of approval by the legislature); this would help ensure the
sustainability of the regulatory framework, which would not be perceived solely as a creation and
territory of the previous administration;
95.   Regulatory agencies should be established immediately and in operation before the first large
privatization. Funds for their establishment and operation should be a budget priority, and part of the
proceeds of privatization should be reserved for that purpose. When the privatization program is
supported by the Bank, the loan should allocate funds to support the agency in the transition period
until it becomes self-supporting. Also, the existence of a well operating regulatory agency and any
legal changes under the control of the states needed to reinforce the legal status of the agency should
be conditions of Board presentation, or, at the latest, of first tranche release. Finally, unless there is a
strong federal umbrella legislation protecting state regulatory agencies, stronger remedies should be
included in the legal documents in case of changes adversely affecting their existence, efficiency and
independence.



21
96.   Concessions. The issues of positive versus negative concessions as compared with labor
efficiency are essentially severable. The Government should decide in advance whether, for social
reasons, it wants to fix tariffs at a level guaranteeing access for the poor or whether it wants to set
terms maximizing the funds received from concessionaires for the concession. This policy will have
a major influence on the value of the concession. In Rio, the Government very emphatically decided
to award the concession under policies designed to maximize the value of the concession. The labor
force under Government management was clearly excessive in size and costly in salary costs and
benefits. Government ensured that the concessionaire was free to bring about an efficient labor force
in size and in salary costs. At the same time, Government did not provide funding for the cost of the
program, leaving the concessionaire in limbo and making difficult the early extinction of the remnant
state companies. In fact, Governments need not fund the entire cost of the labor adjustment program
and, there are reasons why they may not wish to do so. Instead, based on a good estimate of the
likely labor practices under effective management, Government could have elected to fund only part
of the labor program, leaving the concessionaire to fund the rest, but o the same terms available to the
Government. Of course, there would have been a direct interaction between the level of Government
funding and the price paid by the concessionaire.
97.   Bidding documents should be precise regarding the specifications of the equipment and works
to be delivered by the government to the concessionaires (specifications were not precise for
METRO).  It should also be much more specific about the circumstances under which the
concessionaire has the right to stop lease payments when infrastructure delivered does not meet these
specifications. Transfer of lease payments from one concessionaire to the other, such as the transfer
from METRO to FLUMITRENS, should be avoided, because if one defaults from any reason, that
will affect the recipient: even if meeting the missing payments is the responsibility of the state, it is
unlikely to have budgeted funds for that purpose.
98.   Legal conflicts of competence regarding who has the conceding authority should be resolved
before a company is included under a concession program. At a minimum, an agreement between
concerned parties should be reached before the bidding documents are finalized and the concession
advertised.
99.   Use of Privatization Proceeds. It should be the subject of an agreement with the Bank,
particularly when the state is in a critical financial position. Priority in the use of proceeds should be
first to expenditures which ensure the sustainability of program objectives (retrenchment of staff in
remnant companies, budget support to the regulatory agency in the transition to self-sufficiency), and,
second, to actions which contribute to permanent improvements in the state's fiscal position, such as
debt reduction or funding of civil servant pension funds. Despite their possible social content, there
should be limitations to the use of proceeds for investments, particularly in an election year.
100.  Bank policies. The Bank should develop a lending instrument better suited to this type of
operation which does not fit into criteria for either investment nor adjustment lending operations.
Although there are strong arguments in Brazil for implementation periods coinciding with the
duration of one administration, the closing date should be established so as to leave an opportunity
for dialogue with incoming administrations should there be delays in implementation or threat of
reversal.  Transparency in the privatization process, including procedures of auctions through the
Stock Exchange, are essential to avoid criticisms and later risks of cancellation and reversal. Bank
procurement rules for concessions should become more flexible, to allow the bidding process to be
handled though the Stock Exchange, which is very important to ensure transparency locally. Finally,
preparation and supervision of this type of project requires a large input of Bank staff time over a



22
comparatively short period, relative to other projects, and adequate provisions should be made in the
Bank's budget to that effect (in particular for supervision). In addition, this type of project should
include technical assistance funds to hire high caliber consultants under Bank procedures to help the
Government develop its strategy an supervise is financial advisers. This would reduce dependence
on Bank assistance and reduce this risks that the Bank may become too closely identified with
tactical and political decisions made by the government. Even this, however, is no guarantee that the
Bank will not have to step-up its efforts at critical times when the concession models are being
defined, particularly if there are serious faults in the performance of the financial advisors.



23
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial      Negligible          Not
applicable
Macro policies                                                                        x
Sector Policies5                                      x
Financial Objectives                                  x
Institutional Development                             x
Physical Objectives                     x
Poverty Reduction                                                                     x
Gender Issues                                                                         x
Other Social Objectives                                                               x
Environmental Objectives                              x
Public Sector Management                x
Private Sector Development              x
Likely       Unlikely       Uncertain    Not applicable
B. Project Sustainability               x
Highly
C. Bank Performance               Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient    Not applicable
Identification                          x
Preparation Assistance                  x
Appraisal                               x
Supervision                                           x
Highly
D. Borrower Performance           Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient    Not applicable
Preparation                             x
Implementation:
Provision of counterpart                                                           x
funds
Project Coordination Units6                        x
Covenant Compliance                     x
Highly                                        Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of Outcome                             x
5 The privatization of CEDAE was not possible under the project and therefore the Water and Sanitation sector has not yet been
restructured
6establishment of ASEP took more time than necessary and agreement with the Municipalities for the privatization of CEDAE was not
sought early on during the preparation of the privatization process.



24
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Project ID        Brazil                    Purpose                 Year of            Status            Loan in
Loan Credit                                        Approval                            Millions of
US$
BR 6368         Ln 34420 BR      Water Sector Modernization             1992      under implementation       250
closing date: 06/30/99
BR 6547         Ln 36330 BR      Federative Republic of Brazil - Rio    1993      under implementation       128
de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport                closing date: 12/31/99
Decentralization
BR 40028        Ln 40460 BR      Federative Republic of Brazil -        1996       under implementation      350
Railway Restructuring                            closing date: 12/31/00
BR 39196        Ln 41390 BR      Rio Grande do Sul-State Reform         1997       Effective: 06/30/97       125
closing date: 12/31/98
BR 43421        Ln 42910 BR      State of Rio - Rio de Janeiro Mass     1998       not yet effective         200
Transit Project                                  closing date: 06/30/02
BR 40033        Ln 43180 BR      Minas Gerais-State Reform              1998      not yet effective          170
closing date: 12/31/99
BR 40870        Ln 41890 BR      Mato Grosso - State Privatization      1997      Under implementation       45
closing date: 12/31/98



25
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned7                   Date actual/latest
Estimate
Identification                                                     October 1995
Preparation 8                                                   Oct 1995-Dec 1995
Pre-appraisal                      March 1996                    March 5 - 15, 1996
Appraisal                           May 1996                     May 20 - 31, 1996
Negotiations                        July 1996                   February 24-27, 1997
Board Presentation                August 1996                      July 17, 1997
Signing                                                           March 27,1998
Effectiveness                     October 1997                     April 9, 1998
Project Program                   not later than                  June 24-26, 1998
Review                            June 30, 1998
Project Completion              September 30,1998               December 31, 1998
Loan Closing                   December 31, 1998                December 31, 1998
7 Planned dates for pre-appraisal, appraisal, negotiations and Board presentation are as in Initial Executive Project
Summary. Planned date for effectiveness is as in the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President.
8 The State Reforn Program was developed jointly with the Government during five missions, starting October 1995



26
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM-PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211 - BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 4 - Loan Disbursement Cumulative Estimate and Actual
(US$ Million)
(US$ million)
Appraisal      Actual         Actual as
Estimate                   % of Estimate
1st Qtr 98    Sep. 1997        0.00          0.00
2st Qtr 98    Dec. 1997       125.00         0.00            0.0
3rd Qtr 98   Mar. 1998        125.00         0.00            0.0
4th Qtr 98   Jun. 1998        200.00        125.00           62.5
1st Qtr 99    Sep. 1998       200.00        125.00           62.5
2stQtr99    Dec. 1998         250.00        199.60           79.8
300.00
250.00
200.0
150.00
100.00
50.00
0.00
I1st Qtr 98   2st Qtr 98    3rd Qtr 98 _4th Qtr 98       1 st Qtr 99   2st Qtr 99
--- Appraisal Estimate                         Actual
Note:
About US$ 50.423 million remained undisbursed at loan closing and were cancelled.



27
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5A: Summary
Key Implementation              Estimated                        Actual
Indicators in SAR
A. Privatization of State Bank
Privatization of BANERJ SA    by July 1997 (Condition of    June 26, 1997
and BANERJ Seguros SA       Board Submission)
Liquidation of Banco do     Initiated by July 1997      The Central Bank ordered the
Estado and Previ-BANERJ     (Condition of Board         liquidation of Banco do Estado on
Submission).                December 29, 1996, and SUSEP
ordered the liquidation of Previ-
Satisfactory progress by mid-   BANERJ in January 1997. Progress
term review (January-June   was judged satisfactory at the mid-
1998)                      term review (June 1998).
Liquidation of both is still
proceeding. Liquidation of Previ-
BANERJ appears near, as over 95%
of beneficiaries have now signed
individual contracts with the state
and Previ-BANERJ. Liquidation of
Banco do Estado will not be
finalized until the debt restructuring
agreement between the state and
federal governments is finally
approved by the Senate and becomes
effective, permitting the assumption
of Banco do Estado's debt to the
Central Bank by the state
government.
B. Privatization or Concession of Public Services
I. New Regulatory Framework
General law to privatize or  Passed by July 1997        Law passed on November 28, 1995
concession public enterprises   (Condition of Board
and create a new regulatory  Submission)
entity for the concession of
public services
Law to establish a multi-sector  Passed by the State Assembly   Regulatory Agency of Public
regulatory commission for   and ratified by the Governor    Services Granted by the State of Rio
concessioned public services    by July 1997 (Condition of  de Janeiro (ASEP) established by



28
Key Implementation             Estimated                       Actual
Indicators in SAR
Board Submission)          law on February 13, 1997.
Regulatory Commission      By Project mid-term review  At mid-term review, 3 out of 5
operating under an operating    (January-June 1998)    commissioners had been nominated
structure satisfactory to the                          and approved by the State Assembly;
Bank                                                  the operational structure had been
defined and internal regulations
governing processes had been
developed. 47 out of 60 staff had
been appointed. Despite
shortcomings (need to appoint two
more commissioners, generally slow
implementation, and need to
strengthen financial and
administrative autonomy), the Bank
found the operating structure
generally satisfactory.
In January 1999, the newly elected
Governor announced its intention to
change the regulatory framework
established by the previous
administration, splitting ASEP in
two agencies and possibly changing
te mandate of commissioners. New
draft laws to that effect are
reportedly under preparation. In
parallel, all staff at the first and
second levels of management,
totalling over 30 key staff, have been
removed, in effect impeding the
functioning of ASEP.
II. Urban Transport
(i) Flumitrens (Suburban Rail)  Preparation of concession  Financial advisers hired in January
bidding documents underway   1997.
and financial advisor hired by
July 1997 (Condition of Board
Submission)
Concession Contract signed by  Concession contract signed on
project mid-term review    September 17, 1998
(January-June 1998)
(ii) METRO (Subway)        Preparation of concession   Financial advisers hired in January
bidding documents underway   1997.
and financial advisor hired by



29
Key Implementation              Estimated                       Actual
Indicators in SAR
July 1997 (Condition of Board
Submission)
Concession Contract signed by  Concession contract signed on
project mid-term review     January 27, 1998
(January-June 1998)
(iii) CTC/SERVE (Buses)     Retrenchment of employees    Retrenchment of employees and
and liquidation of assets and    liquidation of assets started in 1995
liabilities initiated by July
1997 (Condition of Board
Submission)
Satisfactory progress in    Liquidation is underway. CTC's
liquidation of assets and   personnel has been reduced from
liabilities by mid-term review   1,821 in January 1996 to 241 by
(January-June 1998)         October 1998. SERVE's personnel
has been reduced from 464 in
January 1996 to 91 in October 1998.
(iv) CONERJ (Ferry)         Retrenchment of employees    Total number of employees
initiated by July 1997      decreased from 1097 in 1995 to 740
(Condition of Board         by the end of 1997, shortly before
Submission)                 privatization.
Valuation of assets and studies  Studies contracted in July 1996, well
for possible concession     underway by the end of June 1997,
underway by July 1997       and completed in September 1997.
(Condition of Board
Submission)
Concession contract signed or  Concession contract signed on
sale of shares by mid-term  February 12, 1998
review (January-June 1998)
(v) CODERTE (Bus terminal   Retrenchment of employees    Total number of employees
operator)                  initiated by July 1997       decreased from about 700 in 1996 to
(Condition of Board         about 500 in June 1998 (of which
Submission)                 about 100 are working in terminals
located in the interior of the state).
Shares transferred to private    The Menezes Cortes Bus Terminal,
parties; or majority of assets   accounting for 95% of the assets of
transferred or leased to private  CODERTE, was sold on October 28,
parties, or transferred to  1998. The remaining 20 terminals in
municipalities; or CONERJ    the interior of the state remain to be
liquidated, by mid-term review  municipalized.



30
Key Implementation              Estimated                        Actual
Indicators in SAR
(January-June 1998)
III. Energy
(i) CERJ (Electricity)      Majority of voting shares sold  70.3% of CERJ share capital
by July 1997 (Condition of  belonging to the state sold on
Board Submission)           November 11, 1996. Concession
contract signed December 9, 1996.
(ii) CEG (Gas)              Consultant to advise on     Consultant hired in July 1996.
privatization hired by July
1997 (Condition of Board
Submission)
Majority of CEG voting shares  Concession contracts and sale of
sold by mid-term review    shares of CEG and RIOGAS signed
(January-June 1998)         on July 21, 1997 and July 18, 1997,
respectively
IV Water and Sanitation
CEDAE                       Studies on the reform model    Reform model and strategy
and concessioning and       completed by July 1997 (based on
municipalization strategies  federally-funded studies); Financial
completed; and financial    adviser contracted in August 1997.
adviser hired by July 1997
(Conditions of Board
Submission)
Concession contracts signed    Concessioning did not take place.
for the operations of systems   Final bidding documents were
with a population of at least    published on September 15, 1998,
2.5 million persons by mid-    but Auction was canceled after the
term review (January-June   State Assembly passed a law
1998)                      revoking the inclusion of CEDAE in
the privatization program.
Fiscal indicators and capital    Fiscal performance in 1997  Fiscal performance in 1997 was
spending                    substantially consistent with   substantially consistent with the
the capital spending program    indicators and capital spending
and fiscal indicators       program established in the Program
established in the Privatization  Letter. Fiscal performance substan-
Program Letter.            tially improved in the first half of
1998, but deteriorated in the second
half of 1998. (see Table 5.E).



Table 5B: Privatization Proceeds
Type and Term of Payment
Downpayment
Cash
Date of     Minimum Price    Actual Price    Premium            Privatization   Other Debt  Instruments   Equipment
Enterprise                 Auction     (Million Reais)   (Million Reais)    (%)     Cash    Certificates  Instruments      1/        And works   Total
BANERJ                  Jun 26, 97          310.0                311.1    0.4%                               229.0                                  311.1
CERJ
Auction                  Nov. 29, 96      464.7                 605.3   30.3%     595.3       82.1                                                 605.3
Employees Offering                                               35.1              35.0                                                            35.0
CEG                                                                                                                                                 464.2
Auction                   Jul. 14, 97     250.0                 464.2   85.7%     459.2       10.0                                                 26.6
Employees Offering                                               26.6              26.6
RIOGAS
Auction                   Jul. 14, 97      105.8                157.9   49.5%     152.9        5.0                                                 157.9
METRO (Lines 1&2)
Auction                  Dec. 19, 97       28.6                 291.6  921.2%      40.2        5.0                      201.7                      291.6
FLUMITRENS
Auction                   Jul. 15, 98      36.3                 279.7  671.4%      11.7       49.7                       19.6         183.5        219.8
CONERJ
Auction                   Feb. 5, 98       26.4                  26.4   0.0%       16.4        5.0                                                 26.4
TGMC
Auction                  Oct. 28, 98       80.3                  80.3   0.0%       13.2        10.0                      32.1                      80.3
Sub-total                                   1,3020              2,278.1   74.97%    1,350.      35.0         229.0        253.4         183.5      2,218.2
5
METROBARRA                Nov. 24, 98       488.0                488.0   0.00%                 201.8                                    488.0       488.8
1/ Cash installments are in constant Reals.
Note:
* For FLUMITRENS, the difference between the auction price and the sum of payments (R$60 million) in the "fator de economicidade" quoted by the bidder, i.e., the amount of government payments
*   For METRO, the price of R$292 million is the current price but the present value is R$171 million (using a 15% discount rate as was used for FLUMITRENS, according to the edital)-this represents
an agio of 499%



32
Table 5C: Shareholding Structure of Major Companies Before and After Privatization/Concessioning
Company                                   Shareholders                            % of Capital
Before         After
CERJ                     State of Rio de Janeiro                          78.07
Empresa Electrica de Panama S.A                            21.50
EDP- Electricidade de Portugal S.A                         21.08
Sociedade Panamena de Electricidade S.A                    20.66
Endesa Desarrollo S.A                                       7.02
Employees                                                   7.81
ELETROBRAS                                       13.30     13.30
Other                                             8.63      8.63
BANERJ                   Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro                99.97
Banco Itau S.A                                             99.97
Other                                            0.03       0.03
CEG                      State of Rio de Janeiro                          65.41
Gas Natural SDG S.A                                        18.90
Iberdrola Investimentos                                     9.87
Pluspetrol Energy S.A                                       2.26
GEC Participacoes Ltda                                     25.38
Federal Union                                   34.55      34.55
Employees                                                   9.00
Other                                            0.04       0.04
RIOGAS                   State of Rio de Janeiro                          75.00
Gas Natural SDG S.A                                        25.00
Ementhal Participacoes e Empreendimentos Ltda              25.00
Borgogna Participacoes e Empreendimentos Ltda              25.00
PETROBRAS Distribuidora S.A                     25.00      25.00
METRO (Lines 1&2)        Consorcio Opportrans:
Sorocaba Empreendimentos e Participacoes Ltda              50.00
Cometrans S.A                                              50.00
CONERJ                   State of Rio de Janeiro                          100.00
Construtora Andrade Gutierrez S.A                          36.00
Wilson Sons Adm. Com. Ltda                                 18.00
Auto Viacao 1001 Ltda                                      18.00
RJ Adm. E Participacoes S.A                                18.00
Employees                                                  10.00
FLUMITRENS               RIOTRENS- Concessionaria de Transporte                     100.00
Ferroviario S.A
Source: Programa Estadual de Privatizacao (PED)



33
Table 5D: Fiscal Performance- Investment Program
(in Million Reais)
Program                      Agreed Program- 1997    Actual Program-        Actual Program 1998
1997 
Loans   State   Total  Loan  State  Total   Loans  State   I Total
Metro                        220.0      -  220.0                   199.0  172.8    54.2      227.0
Cleaning up of Guanabara Bay    234.0   24.0  258.0                80.0  210.2      9.2      219.4
Baixada Viva                  60.0    6.0   66.0                      -    2.1   129.8        131.9
PET (Mass Transportation)     51.0   51.0  102.0                      -    0.6    28.7        29.3
Prosanear, Pro-Saneamento,    38.0      -    38.0                     -   22.7      2.1       24.8
Pro-Conclusao.
Other Major Investments          -   100.0  100.0                 369.0
Road Construction and                                                        -   236.5       236.5
Rehab.9
Drainage Works                                                              5.4     9.4        14.8
Hospital Construction and                                                    -    46.6        46.6
Rehab.
School Rehabilitation                                                       2.5     4.1        6.6
Penitentiary and Police Station
Rehab.                                                                      2.7     4.5        7.2
Peugeot                                                                      -      12.5       12.5
TOTAL                        603.0  181.0  784.0                  648.0  419.1   567.8       986.9
Source: 1998: Secretaria de Controle Geral
1997: Bank Files
9 Via Light (R$13.4 million and road rehabilitation: R$236.5 million)



34
Table 5E: Fiscal Indicators - Budget Ratios
(Million Reais- Current Terms)
1997                       1998           1998
As projected in Aug. 98
1. Sources and Uses of Funds
Current Revenues:                                     7,392                      8,621          8,876
Tax Receipts                                          5,671                      6,887          6,838
ICMS                                                5,209                      6,272          6,322
IPVA                                                  342                                       335
Other Taxes                                           120                                       181
Yields from Applications                               106                         101            142
Current Transfers                                     1,466                      1,514          1,778
Lei Kandir                                            239                                       450
FPE                                                   150                                       167
IRF                                                   321                                       391
Salario Educacao                                      189                                       166
Convenios                                             357                                       420
Other Transfers                                       210                                       184
Other Current Revenues                                 149                         120            118
less transfer to municipalities                       1,567                      1,547          2,259
=Net Current Revenues                                 5,825                      7,074          6,617
Capital Receipts                                      6,654                      2,939          6,464
Credit Operations                                     5,635                      1,979          6,342
Bond Issues                                         2,163                       1,466          1,662
Internal Contractual Borrowing                      3,370                        138           4,285    (Note I)
External Contractual Borrowing                        102                        375            395
Sale of Property                                       669                         110             88
Interest Earned on CEF Loan for BANERJ                 342                         839                   (Note 2)
Other Capital Receipts                                   8                          12             34
plus Capitalized Interest                             2,045                       1,949         3,283
less Bonds Rolled-over                                2,163                      1,466          1,662
=Net Capital Receipts                                 6,536                      3,422          8,085
Current Expenditures                                  7,552                      8,132         10,460
Personnel Salaries and Benefits                       4,689                      4,778          5,804
Interest Paid                                          314                         342            356
Other Current Expenditures                            2,549                      3,012          4,300
plus Capitalized Interest                             2,045                       1,949         3,283
less Transfers to Municipalities                      1,567                      1,547          2,259
=Net Current Expenditures                             8,030                      8,534         11,484
Capital Expenditures                                  2,953                      2,409          3,277
Investments                                            648                         797          1,465
Bond Amortization                                     2,178                      1,496          1,696
Other Amortization                                      127                        117            116
less Bonds Rolled-over                                2,163                      1,466          1,662
=Net Capital Expenditures                              790                         944           1,615
Summary
Net Current Revenues                                  5,825                      7,074          6,617
Net Capital Receipts                                  6,536                      3,422          8,085
Total Net Receipts                                   12,361                     10,496         14,702
Net Current Expenditures                              8,030                      8,534          11,484
Net Capital Expenditures                               790                         944           1,615
Total Expenditures                                    8,820                      9,477          13,099
Surplus                                               3,541                      1,019          1,603
Net Current Revenue                                   5,825                      7,074          6,617
less Net Current Expenditure                          8,030                      8,534         11,484
less Investments                                       648                         797          1,465
Operational Balance                                 (2,853)                    (2,256)         (6,332)
Operational Balance as % Net Current Revenue          -49%                       -32%            -96%



35
II. Debt Calculations                                   1997                        1998   1998 (Actual)
Debt stock (saldo devedor) as of End of Year                                  Aug. 31/98
Domestic Debt
Bonds                                                 7,383                       8,560          9,474
Banco do Brasil                                       1,288                       2,146          1,618
CER: AROs, others                                      430                            -            498
CEF: Conta A e B                                      3,417                       3,417          4,130
Banco Central                                         3,748                       3,930          4,008
BANERJ                                                 447                         467             480
BNDES: linha vermelha, metro                           460                         471             596
Previ-rio/lfNSS                                         70                           65             63
External Debt                                            184                         449             622
less Banco do Esstado                                  1,300                        1,300          1,300
Total Bonds and Contractual Debt                      16,127                       18,205         20,189
Debt Stock: Net Current Revenue                        277%                        257%            305%
Net Current Revenues                                   5,825                       7,074           6,617
Tax Receipts                                          4,104                       5,340          4,579
Current Transfers                                     1,466                       1,514          1,778
Other Current Revenues                                 255                         221             260
Current Expenditures                                   8,030                       8,534          11,484
Personnel                                            4,689                        4,778          5,804
Interests                                            2,359                        2,291          3,639
Other Current Expenditures                             982                        1,466          2,041
Capital Expenditures                                     790                         944           1,615
Investments                                            648                         797            1,465
Debt Amortization                                      142                          147            150
Capital Receipts                                       6,536                        3,422          8,085
Credit Operations                                     3,472                         513          4,680
Sale of Property                                       669                          110             88
Yields Contas A,B                                      342                         839
Other Capital Receipts                                   8                           12             34
III- Indicators
Growth in Gross Current Revenues (nominal)                                           17%            20%
Growth in Net Current Revenues (nominal)                10%                         21%             14%
Personnel as % of N.Cur. Revenues                       80%                         68%             88%
Capital Spending as % of N.Cur. Revenues                11%                          11%            22%
Total Debt Service as % of N.Cur. Revenues              43%                         34%             57%
of which: Financed by Capitalization                  35%                          28%            50%
Primary Deficit as % of N. Cur. Revenues                -8%                           0%           -41%
Operational Deficit as % of N. Cur. Revenues           -49%                         -32%           -96%
Stock of Debt (EOY) as % of N. Cur. Revenues           277%                        257%            305%



36
Actual
1995        1996        1997       1998
Personnel as % of Revenue                               84%         85%         80%        88%
Capital Spending as % of Revenue                         6%          9%         11%        22%
Total Debt Service as % of Revenue                      28%         26%         43%        57%
of which: Financed By Capitalization                    23%         17%         35%        50%
Primary Deficit as % of Revenue                          -1%        -8%         -8%        -41%
Operational Deficit as % of Revenue                    -28%        -30%        -49%        -96%
Stock of Debt (EOY) as % of Revenue                    144%        271%        277%       305%
Appraisal Projections
1995        1996       1997        1998
(Actual)   (Actual)
Growth of Revenue (nominal)                                -         8%          7%         2%
Personnel as % of Revenue                               84%         85%         77%        74%
Capital Spending as % of Revenue                         6%          9%         19%         17%
Total Debt Service as % of Revenue                      28%         26%         27%        26%
which: Financed by Capitalization                       23%         17%         12%        10%
Primary Deficit as % of Revenue                         -1%         -8%        -10%         -5%
Operational Deficit as % of Revenue                    -28%        -30%        -32%       -27%
Stock of Debt (EOY) as % of Revenue                    144%        271%        282%       304%
Source: 1997 and August 1998 projections: Bank Files
1998-Actual: Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado-Subsecretaria do Tesoro
Appraisal Estimates: Staff Appraisal Report
Notes:
I - in 1997 and 1998 (Actual), includes assumption by state of liabilities of Banco do Estado to the Central Bank.
2- Not considered as capital receipt by the Government in 1998, because interest earned in excess of interest due to CEF is
not available to the Government for spending (any excess will revert to Government only after closure)



37
Table 6A: Indicators of Performance - CERJ
Before Privatization                 After Privatization
1995         1996          1997          1998
Labor Productivity
Number of Consumers                 1,208,065     1,217,286     1,340,573     1,451,776
Number of Employees                 4,804         4,364         2,288         1,897
Energy Sold (Gwh)                   5,458         5,733         6,424         7,208
Number of Consumers per Employee    251           279           586         - 765
Energy Sold per Employee            1.14          1.31          2.81          3.80
Energy Performance of the System
DEC                                 32.2          41.00         47.90         31.31
FEC                                 31.1          35.80         40.60         29.91
Losses %
Total (technical and commercial)    27.3%         29.3%         25.3%         19.1%
Financial Performance (Thousand Reais)
Operating Revenues                  418,447       464,947       598,033       753,161
Operating Profit                    (61,434)      (264,185)     28,665        60,101
Net Profit                          (64,758)      (267,401)     28,285        48,940
Investments                         39,949        39,949        92,006        178,260
Market
Number of Consumers
Residential                         1,076,143     1,079,774     1,193,282     1,299,626
Commercial                          93,589        104,537       113,248       116,878
Industrial                          5,660         5,534         5,701         5,802
Rural                               19,767        20,425        21,176        22,018
Institutional                       5,900         6,144         6,282         6,581
Resale                              2             2             2             2
Other                               1,004         870           882           869
Total                               1,208,065     1,217,286     1,340,573     1,451,776
Growth Rate                         1.82%         0.76%         10.12%        8.29%
Energy Sold (Gwh)
Residential                         2,127         2,237         2,558         3,123
Commercial                          899           974           1,136         1,290
Industrial                          1,448         1,490         1,615         1,594
Rural                               141           156           170           189
Institutional                       174           410           463           510
Resale                              204           265           275           290
Other                               201           201           207           212
Total                               5,458         5,733         6,424         7,208
Growth Rate                                       5.0%          12.0%         12.2%
Source: 1995: Edital de Venda; 1996-98: CERJ
Definitions: DEC: Cumulated number of hours of interruption of supply per year
FEC: Number of interruptions per year



38
Table 6B: Indicators of Performance- CEG
1995     1996      1997      1998      Jan.-Feb. 99
Labor Productivity
Number of Consumers                      559,673  566,618  564,387   571,447
Number of Employees                      1,847     1,157               512
Gas Sold (thousand m3 per year)          363,905  357,700  663,966   733,442
Number of Consumers per Employee         303       490                 1,116
Gas Sold per Employee                    197      309                  1,433
Losses (%)- Technical and Commercial 3/
Manufactured Gas                                            18.0%      15.8%     15.4%
Natural Gas                                                 3.0%       2.4%/'o    2.0%
Total                                    17% 1/
Manufactured Gas Network Converted (Knm)                                        15.6
Total to be Converted (km) 4/                                                1,550.0
Financial Performance (million Reais)
Operating Revenues                                          201.6      222.5
Operating Profit                                            (82.7)     33.4
Net Profit
Before provisioning 5/               (9.4)     (5.0)    (6.0)      80.3
After provisioning                                      (86.1)     22.1
Market Growth %
Number of Consumers- Total 2/            0.41%     1.24%    -0.39%     1.25%
Residential                              2.56%     1.26%    -0.23%     1.31%
Commercial                               -1.09%    0.46%    -6.94%     1.81%
Industrial                               -5.95%   -0.86%   -25.05%   -44.00%
Institutional                            -0.92%    -1.01%   -0.09%     - 1.11 %
Gas Sold- Total 2/                       4.40%    -1.71%    85.62%     10.46%
Residential                              -5.88%    6.27%    -6.88%     5.35%
Commercial                               5.48%    2.60%    99.06%    57.96%
Industrial                               8.91%    -5.40%    127.39%   6.19%
Institutional                            0.00%    0.00%    -8.61%      -3.63%
Source: 1995-96: Bidding Documents (Edital). 1997-1999: CEG
1/ Estimated in manufactured gas network- including 7% leakage and 10% metering errors.
2/ Large differences in number of clients and sales volumes by categories between 1996 and 1997 are due to the
incorporation of former PETROBRAS clients and re-cadastering and classification of clients.
3/ Contractual target is to reduce losses to 3% over a period of 90 months (7.5 years).
4/ Contractual target is total conversion to natural gas within 90 months (7.5 years), including 25% of residential and
commercial users after 4 years.
5/ In 1997, the new owners created substantial provisions (amounting to R$58.17 million) for the company to be able to
face labor and pension liabilities and risks of client payment defaults.



Table 6C: Indicators of Performance - FLUMITRENS/SUPERVIA
FLUMITRENS                                                                                   SUPERVIA
1998                                                                     1999
iJan      Feb   I  Mar         Apr   |  May   |  Jun   I   Jul            Aug        Sep       QA      |  Nov        Dec        Jan       Feb
Kilomters of Lines Operated (Km)      264        264       264        264        264       264        264        264       264        264        200        200        200      200
I otal Number of Passengers (x I0o6)   3.1        2.7        3.3       3.3        3.3        3.3       4.4        4.6        4.0        3.8       4.6        5.0        4.6      4.1
Passengers x Kilometer (x106)         85.28      73.29      89.50      89.85     90.20      89.69     119.79     126.29     122.78    114.01     124.49     137.75     125.75   112.80
Passengers Revenues (x 1 06)           1.78       1.55       1.89      1.89       1.89      2.53       2.64       2.64      2.56       2.38       2.64       2.95       2.68     2.41
Number of Coaches (EMU)                 60         60        47         50         52        63         59         47         53        58         76         82         80       81
Employment Total                                                                                                                       4,170      2,049     2,058      2,067    2,064
- From FLUMITRENS                                                                                                                    -        1,036      1,033      1,030    1,027
- Newly Hired                                                                                                                        -        1,013      1,025      1,037    1,037
Average Salary  (Real - R$)                                                                                                            1,400      1,173      1,865      1,443    1,355
Investments (US$x103)                 4,160      4,160      4,160      4,160     4,160      4,160     4,280      4,900      5,100      5,900     10,310     12,930     2,660    3,300
Quality Indicators
-Regularity (%)                      57        61         63         63        80         77         81        80         78         75         87         99        99        97
- Timeliness (%)                     60        67         70         70        66         70         70        68         65         60         78         83         78       75
- Confort (air conditioning)         -          -       _      _                -
-Number of Accidents                                                                                                                            7          14         15       12
As defined in Annex C III of the contract, the indexes of Regularity and Timeliness represent:
Index of Regularity is the % of the total number of cars which composed the trains actually dispatched during the considered period, less the cars which
composed the additional trains dispatched during the same period, over the total number of cars which would compose the trains programmed for the same
period.
Index of Timeliness is the % of the number of trains on time during the period considered, over the actual total number of trains dispached during the same
period (number of trains programmed, less trains cancelled, plus extra additional trains)



40
Table 6D- Performance Indicators- METRO/OPPORTRANS
Data              Apr98    May98   Jun98    Jul98    Aug98   Sep98    Oct98   Nov-98   Dec98   Jan-99   Feb99
Kilometers of lines             25.42    25.42     25.42     27.05    34.96     34.96     34.96     34.96    34.96     34.96     34.96
Total number of passengers   5,835,071 7,042,277 6,899,386 8,307,706 7,920.401 9,027,751 9,434,910 9,016,070 9,851,677 8,785,963 8,468,419
Passengers per kilometer        355S2    37.1 - 35.96        38.79    38.70     34.52     32.83    :31.89    33.02     30 68     29,32
Passengersrevenues          4,378,306 5,341,594 5,289,069 6,422,457 6.123,281 6,780,536 6,938,794 6,672,951 7,147,513 8,405,086 6,1 54,353
Number ofTrains                  228        28 __   29  _29             35        31        32 --    33        33        33       33
Number of coaches
' Metro                         128      128       134       134      158       158       162       168      166       166       166
Articulado                        8        8         8         8         8    -         -         -         -        -
Employment total
From Metr6                     571       571       571       570      569       569       569      569       569       569      569
Newly hired                     377      463 _     527       517      595       858       869      870       895       870     1,004
Average salary
' From Metr6                 1,380.00  1,471.00  1,448.00  1,347.00  1,442.00  1,459.00  1,482.00  1,470.00  1,413.00  1,304.20  1,381.80
- Newly hired                 562.10    744.50    692.00    733.20     716.70    607.20   636.20    643.30    626.40- 676.84   603.58
Investments-                                       -         -        -         -         -----
Quality indicators
Frequency of trains
Line 1                     00:04:30  00:04:30  00:04:30  00:04:30  00:04:30  00:04:30  00:04:20  00:04:20  00:04:20  00:04:20  00:04:20
Line 2                     00:06:30  00:06:30  00:06:30  00:06:30  00:06:30  00:07:15  00:07:15  00:06:10  00:06:10  00:06:10  00:06:10
Travel time
Line 1                     00:24:13  00:24:13  00:24:13  00:28:33  00:28:33  00:28:33  00:27:13  00:27:13  00:27:13  00:27:13  00:27:13
Line 2                     00:26:07  00:26:07  00:26:07  00:26:07  00:26:07  00:40:38  00:40 38  00:33:47  00:33:47  00:33:47  00:33:47
Confort (air conditioning)         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -        -              -
Number of accidents                                            2 2



41
Table 6E: Formal Complaints Registered in PROCONs of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Enterprise                        Type of Claim                1995        1996        1997       1998
CERJ                     Excess Billing                         6           9           3           51
Undue Billing and Fines                1           7           6          79
Reimbursement Claims                   1                       2           2
Failure to Install                     1           7                       1
Requests for Clarifications            4           7          12          22
Changes in Tarifs                      I                                   I
Service not Provided, or faulty        2           9           3           4
Calculation of Charges                             1           5          30
Repair of Damages
Faulty Metering                                    1           3           7
Failure to Install Meter                                       I
Undue Suspension                                                           2
Failure to Reconnect                                                       I
Legalization of Supply                                                     2
Scheduling of Arrears Payments                                             5
Total                                  16         42          35          211
of which: Resolved by PROCON          12          23          20          179
%                            75%         54%         57%        85%
CEG                      Excess Billing                         10          13          12          14
Undue Billing                          4          10           5           6
Reimbursement Claims                   I           I           I
Request for Clarifications             10         13           6           6
Calculation of Charges                 2           4           5          15
Tarif Increases                        3           3           4
Faulty Metering                        1           4           4
Meter Substitution                                             2
Failure to Install                                 1
Failure to Provide Service                         I
Faulty Service                                                             I
Interruption of Service                                        1           2
Failure to Reconnect                                           1
Total                                 31          50          42          44
of which: Resolved by PROCON          18          31          22          27
%                            58%        62%         52%         61%
BANERJ                   Returned/Canceled Checks                2          3           9           6
Excessive Charges                      3           7          13           8
Undue Charges                          5          36          28          25
Blocked Account                        1           1
Closure of AccountContract                         1           2           2
Recision
Claims for reimbursement               3           7           6          11
Negative Cadaster                      2           3           7           7
Failure to Supply Ckeckbooks           1           5           1           3
Requests for Clarifications            13         98          97          85
Calculation of Charges                 3           7          35          58
Breach of Contract                     1           2           3           I
Undue Withdrawals                      I                      14          16
Credit Card Cancelation                            2           3           2
Errors in Statements                               I
Misplaced/Retained Documents                       3           3           2
Payments/Deposits not Made                         3           3           4
Poor Service/Cashiers Errors                       8          11           9



42
Enterprise                        Type of Claim               1995        1996        1997        1998
Credit Denied/Credit Limit                                    4           I
Total                                 35         187         240         241
of which: Resolved by PROCON          22         116         128         186
%                          63%         62%         53%         77%
All Formalized Claims                                        14,102      24,962      27,364      38,466
PROCON offices opened since 1995
Cabo Frio:                August 1996
Marica:                   1997
Nova Friburgo:            May 1996
Sao Fidelis:              January 1997
Petropolis:               January 1997
Teresopolis:              April 1997
Sao Joao de Meriti:       May 1997
Campos:                   May 1997
Niteroi:                  July 1997
Date of Privatization (signing of contract):
CERJ:                     December 1996
CEG:                      July 1997
BANERJ:                   June 1997
Note:
Interpretation of this data requires much caution because:
*   over the same period, PROCON activities have grown substantially, total claims having increased three times since 1995 and 1.5
times since 1996. Claims against these three companies only represent one percent of total claims.
*   the opening of offices encourages submission of claims. In particular, it appears that the opening of an office in Niteroi has
encouraged many users to seek resolution of their claims against CERJ;
*   this table shows records of formalized claims, whether resolved in favor of the users or of the company.
Nevertheless, one may conclude that:
*   the number of claims is overall very small;
*   since privatization in mid-1997, there has been no significant changes in claims against BANERJ and CEG. There has been a large
increase of claims against CERJ, reflecting the opening of the Niteroi office and the poor performance of CERJ in early 1998;
*   most claims relate to billing issues and lack of response to requests for clarifications (in 1998: 86% for CERJ, 93% for CEG, and
73% for BANERJ), there are relatively few related to quality of supply or service. This points out at the need for the companies to
improve their customers' service departments and the transparency of their billing systems.



43
Table 6F- Destination of Pnvatization Proceeds (Social Mobilization Fund)
Type of Expenditures                                        1996                    1997                    1999                 TOTAL
Comminted    spent     Committed     Spent    Committed      Spent    Committed   Spent
Investments
BaexadaViva                                             1,100       1,098       3,716       3,566     137,834     104,b56    142,650  109,520
waterlSanitabon Wonks-CEF                                                       3,618         171       4,304                  7.922      171
Water/Sanitation Works-other                                                   12,643                  94,328      45,612    106.971   45,612
Works/Secretanas                                       10.038      10.038      31 .742     31.741                             41,780   41,779
IASERJ/Purchase of Building                            10,000      10,000                                                     10,000   10,000
Payment of Arrears/Road Works                          9,644        9,568                                                      9.644    9,568
Va Light                                                                       39,861      35,482      42,566      28,407     82,427   63,889
Road Rehabilitabon & Constructon                                               53,616      48,598       1,551         164     55,167   48,762
METRO (ConsnnmatiortExpansion)                        144,448     144.448      47.092      30,806      64,467      27,859    256007  203,113
FLUMITRENS                                                                      6,430       3,642                              6,430    3,642
SERLA (mao-dranage & Erosion Control)                  10,430      10,430      20,502      11.348       9,251       3,457     40183   25,235
CEDAE (Guanabara Bay)                                   2,925       2,926       5,912       3.192       4,200                 13,037    6,118
Airports                                                 383         203        2,488       1,440                              2,871     t,643
Rio Flood                                                                       3,885       2,410                              3,885    2,410
Emergency Slide Control Works                                                   2,543                                          2,543      -
Urban Improvement Works                                                         6,699       3,444      26,063      20,003     32,762   23,447
Housing Development (Sec. De Segurancu)                                         2,332       1,848         781         495      3,113    2.343
Housing Development- Other                                                                              5.108       3,459      5,108    3,459
Schools& Educ. Institubons                                                      4,791       1.971                              4,791    1.971
Hospital Reform and Construction                                               16.907       %,423      26,733      15,022     43,640   24,445
Police Statons Reform & Construction & IMLs                                     3,000       1,125       1,188         164      4.188    1,269
Works/Public Safety, Justice and Health                                         5,000       5,000                              5.000    5,000
FENORTE                                                                          317          307                               317       307
Works/Unspecified                                                               7,555       6,117       7,050       1,303     14,605    7,420
Pnvatzatien Program-Consultants                                                 5,310                                          5,310      -
Pnva8zabon Program-Success Fee CEGIRIOGAS                                       6,495       6,471                              6,495    6,471
Other Expenditumrs
Sec. De Seguranca Publica                              14,916      14,916                                                     14,916    14,916
Fundo Estadual cle Saude-Arrears Payment to Suppliers  24,385      24,385                                                     24.385   24,385
FLUMITRENS                                             7,045        7,044                                                      7,045    7,044
Mntenance-Housing Developments                                                   713         713                                 713      713
ASEP                                                                                                    2,000         430      2,000      430
Debt Reduction                                                                                        165,000     118,321    165.000  118,321
Source Secretaria de Control Geral



44
Table 7: Technical Assistance and Studies
No studies were financed under the project. The state government contracted financial
advisers for each privatization and concession transaction, which were financed out of the proceeds
of privatization. Several studies to assist in the modeling of the concessions in the transport and
water and sanitation sectors were financed under other Bank loans (Rio de Janeiro Transport
Decentralization Project, and Water Sector Modernization Project).



45
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM-PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211 - BR)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table 8A - Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Project Component                      Local   Forein    Total    Local   Foreizn    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
(US$ Million)                (RS Million) (I)               (Million RS)
Reform Component
Direct Costs of the Privatizaion Prozram
- Rightsizing of the Workforce
from 1995 to 1998                                                                                                  516        00       516
Estimated for Remaining Staff of Flumitrens and
Metro (2)                                                                                                                97 2       0 0      97 2
Subtotal     700.0       0.0    700.0    756.0         0.0    756.0    148.8         0.0    148.8
- Restructuring and Privitization BANERJ
Assumption of Pension and other Liabilities in 1997                                                               3.089 0       0 0   3,009 0
Loan from the Central Bank to Banco do Estado (originall
born by BANERJ)                                                                                                        3,900 0      0 0   3,900 0
Contingent Liabilites (recognized by the liquidator o
Banco do Estado)                                                                                                       1,600 0      0 0   1,600 0
Remaining Assets of Banco do Estado to be Sold                                                                   -1,700 0      0 0  .1,700.0
Subtotal   4,S00.0      0.0   4,800.0   5,184.0       0.0   5,184.0   6,889.0       0.0   6,889.5
- Assumption of CTC INSS liability 14)                                                                                  52 8      0 0      52 8
Incremental Recurrent Costs of Reforms on
Declining Basis
- Salaries of Flumitrens or Subsidies to the Concessionair
(3)                                                         4000        00     400 0      432 n       0.0    432.0     024.8       00      524 8
Total Costs                         5.9000        0.0   5.900.0   6,372.0      0.0   6,372.0   7615.4        0.0   7,615.4
(1) the Appraisal estimate in Reais was calculated using the exchange rate of July 1997 (l 08 R$ per US$) when the projectwas presented to the Board.
(2) severance payments after privatization were estimated taoing into account 15 months, an average salary of R$1300, and 3600 employees
(3) Actual estimates are calculated taking into account 5400 employees at an average salary of R$1800, plus 80% benefits, during 2.5 years
(4) CTC INSS liability is to be paid in 96 mnnthly payments of R5S50,000 each



46
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM-PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211 - BR)
Table 8B - Project Financing
Appraisal Estimates                  Actual Estimates
Source
(USS Million)         %        (R$ million)  (USS Equivalent)    %
World Bank                  250.0           4.2          241.1          199.6          3.2
State of Rio de Janeiro    5,650.0         95.8         7,374.3        6,104.6        96.8
Total                      5,900.0         100.(        7,615.4        6,304.1        100.0
Note:
The US$ equivalent of actual counterpart costs was calculated at 1.208 Reais per US$, the exchange rate
of December 31, 1998, the loan closing date.



47
Table 9: Direct Fiscal Impact of the Reform Program
(in constant Reais of 1998)
Table 9A: Assumptions
Enterprise/Agency              Costs                          Benefits
BANERJ                         *  Debt contracted from Federal  (a) Saving cost of maintaining
Government to assume       BANERJ in operation as
Banco do Estado's debt to the  public bank:
Central Bank (R$ 3,900
million as of August 31,   *  Cost of recapitalizing
1998)                          BANERJ (R$1,900 million,
to'cover negative equity in
*  Debt contracted from CEF to     1995);
cover BANERJ and Previ-
BANERJ hidden liabilities    *  Fiscal support to BANERJ
(R$3,080 million of loan       (Quasi fiscal expenditures)
from CEF); plus R$1,600        caused by operating losses
million additional contingent  averaging R$500 million per
liabilities recognized by the  year (av. 1994-95) and by
liquidator of Banco do         payments coming due on
Estado; less proceeds of asset  hidden and contingent
sale of Banco do Estado after  liabilities (R$560 million per
liquidation (R$ 1,700 million)  year, equivalent to net
present value of R$4,680
*   Equity injection of R$181     million)
million into Banco BANERJ
(b) Proceeds of Privatization:
R$311.1 million.
FLUMITRENS                     *  State investment            *  Elimination of operating
commitments for PET            subsidies (R$187 million in
(US$186 million, at average    1985)
exchange rate of R$ 1.5 per
US$)                       *  Privatization proceeds:
downpayment in cash (R$3.4
*  Personnel retrenchment          million) and privatization
program before privatization   certificates (R$5.0 million);
(from 7,871 employees in       240 monthly lease payments
1995 to 4,170 in October       of R$81,660 each, starting
1998) at estimated cost of     after five years, and totalling
R$23.3 million 1/              R$19.6 million.
*  Salaries of personnel not
retained by the
concessionaire after
privatization, until their
retrenchment (6 months at
average salary of R$1,800,
including benefits), and cost
of their retrenchment (18
months of salary at average
salary of R$1,040), for 3,143
employees.



48
Enterprise/Agency             Costs                           Benefits
METRO                         *  Personnel retrenchment       *  Elimination of operational
program before privatization  subsidies (R$109 million in
(from 3,272 employees in       1995)
1995 to 1,400 in January
1998), at estimated cost of    *  Privatization proceeds:
R$18.6 million 1/              Downpayment of R$89.4
million; 233 monthly lease
Salaries of personnel not      payments of R$865,000
retained by the                each, starting October 1998,
concessionaire after          totalling RS201.7 million.
privatization, until their
retrenchment (6 months at
average salary of R$3,020
per employee, including
benefits), and cost of their
retrenchment (18 months of
salary, at average salary of
R$1,640), for 840
employees.
CTC/SERVE                     *  Personnel retrenchment       *  Elimination of operating
program before privatization  subsidies (R$37 million in
(from 2,496 employees in       1995)
1995 to 332 in October
1998), at estimated cost of
R$8.7 million 1/           *  Proceeds of assets sale (not
available)
* Payment of residual
personnel of companies
while under liquidation and
retrenchment costs (241 in
CTC and 91 in SERVE), for
six months at average salary
of R$970, and severance
payments of 18 months at
average salary of R$660 .
*  Assumption of CTC's debt to
INSS (96 monthly payments
of R$45,833 each, starting
20/03/97).
*  Remaining operating subsidy
to SERVE, while under
liquidation: R$91,565 per
month since October 1998,
assuming two years to
complete liquidation.
CODERTE/TGMC                   *  Salaries of TGMC personnel  *  Proceeds of sale of TGMC:
not retained by buyer after    R$48.2 million
privatization (6 months of     downpayment; 96 monthly
salary), and cost of their    installments totalling R$32.1
retrenchment (18 months of     million, starting second



49
Enterprise/Agency              Costs                           Benefits
salary), for 98 employees, at  month after sale.
average salary of R$800 per
month.
0  Incremental costs to
remaining CODERTE of
rental of TGMC terminal
(R$ 100,000 per month), and
to the Government of rental
of parking floor (200 cars @
R$200 per month)
CEG                                                            *  Proceeds of Sale: R$464.2
million, upfront.
RIOGAS                                                         *  Proceeds of sale: R$157.9
million, upfront
CERJ                                                           *  Proceeds of Sale: R$605.3
million upfront.
CONERJ                         *  Personnel retrenchment       *  Proceeds of Sale: R$24.6
program before privatization    million upfront.
(from 1.097 employees in
1995 to 740 by             *  Elimination of Operating
concessioning), at estimated    Subsidies (R$30 million in
cost of R$1.4 million 1/        1995)
ASEP                           *  Transitional Costs until self-
sufficient: 1998: Actual cost
to Treasury (R$660,000);
1999: as stated in approved
budget (R$2.31 million);
subsequently decreasing to
zero cost to Treasury by end
of Year 2002.
1/ estimated on the basis of total retrenchment costs of R$52 million reported by the state Government for pre-
privatization retrenchment programs between 1995 and 1998 for all urban transport companies, divided in
proportion to numbers of retrenched personnel and current average salaries.



Table 9: Direct Fiscal Impact of the Reform Program
Table 9B: Net Present Value
(in Million 1998 Reais)
Years                        1995/98  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006 2007/19
Costs
- Net Cost of Restructuring and Privatization of   6,889.0
BANERJ (as per Table 8A) (I)
- FL UMITRENS:
. State Investments Commitments for PET             279.0
. Salaries of Personnel not Retained by Concessionaire      46.4  46,4
and Cost of Their Retrenchment
. Personnel Retrenchment Program before Privatization  23.3                                                                                       
. Transfer of Lease Payment from Metro during 28       1.7  10.4  10.4   1.7
Months
- METRO
. Investments Commitments
. Salaries of Personnel not Retained by Concessionaire      20.0  20.0
or Cost of Their Retrenchment
. Personnel Retrenchment Program before Privatization  18.6
- CTC/SERVE
Payment of Residual Personnel while                         2.9   2.9
under Liquidation
Personnel Retrenchment Program before Privatization   8.7
Assumption of CTC's Debt to INSS                      1.0   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.1
. Remaining Subsidies to Serve while under Liquidation  0.3   1.1   0.8
- CODERTE



Years                       1995/98  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006 2007/19
. Salaries of Personnel from the parking Building not  0.2   0.9   0.9
Retained by Buyer or Cost of their Retrenchment
. Operating Subsidies for Rental of Terminal and    0.1   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6          0.6
Parking Floor
- CONERJ
. Personnel Retrenchment Program before Privatization  1.4
- CEG/RIOGAS/CERJ
-ASEP
. Transitional Costs until Self-sufficiency         0.7   2.3   1.6   0.8   0.2
Subtotal Costs  7,224.0  85.2  84.2   3.6   1.4   1.1   1.1   0.7   0.6       0.6



Years                       1995198  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006 2007/19
Benef-its
- BANERJ
. Elimination of Sources of Quasi-fiscal Deficit
Operating Losses                             800.0 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0 500.0        500.0
Payments of Hidden and Contingent Liabilities  560.0 560.0 560.0 560.0 560.0 560.0 560.0 560.0 560.0      560.0
. Proceeds of Privatization                       311.1
Cost of Recapitalizing BANERJ                   1,900.0
- FLUMITRENS
Elimination of Operational Subsidies              31.2 187.0 187.0 187.0 187.0 187.0 187.0 187.0 187.0        187.0
Privatization Proceeds:
Downpayment in Cash                               3.4
Downpayment in Privatization Certificates         5.0
. Annual Lease Payments after five Years                                                  1.0   1.0   1.0        1.0
- METRO
Elimination of Operational Subsidies             109.0 109.0 109.0 109.0 109.0 109.0 109.0 109.0 109.0        109.0
Privatization Proceeds:
Downpayment in Cash                              36.6
Downpayment in Privatization Certificates        49.7                                                                                     M
. Annual Lease Payments                                   10.4  10.4  10.4  10.4  10.4  10.4  10.4  10.4
- CTC/SERVE
Elimination of Operational Subsidies                    33.0  33.2  37.0  37.0  37.0  37.0  37.0  37.0         37.0
Proceeds of Assets Sale
- CODERTE
Proceeds of Sale of TGMC
Down Payment in Cash                             13.2
Down Payment in Privatization Certificates       35.0
Annual Lease Payments                                    4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
- CONERJ
Proceeds of Sale
In cash up-front                                 16.4
In Privatization Certificates up-front           10.0
Elimination of Operational Subsidies              22.5  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0        30.0
- CEG
Proceeds of Sale
In cash up-front                               459.2
In Privatization Certificates up-front            5.0



Years                       1995/98  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006 2007/19
Employees Offering in Cash                     26.6
- RIOGAS
. Proceeds of Sale
In cash up-front                                152.9
In Privatization Certificates up-front            5.0
CERJ
. Proceeds of Sale
In cash up-front                                593.3
In Privatization Certificates up-front           10.0
Employees Offering in Cash                       35.0
Subtotal Benefits   5190  1433  1434  1437  1437  1437  1438  1438  1438       1424
Net Cash Flow                     -2034  1348  1349  1434  1436  1436  1437  1438  1438        1423
Net Present Value (over 20 Years) =   7,742
Un
wi



Years                        1995/98  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006 2007/19
Specific Net Present Values
BANERJ Net Benefits                                  -3,318  1,060 1,060 1,060 1,060 1,060 1,060 1,060  1,060        1,060
Net Present Value = 4,194.5
FLUMITRENS Net Benefits                              -264.5  130.2  130.2  185.3  187.0 187.0 188.0 188.0 188.0      188.0
Net Present Value =    943.2
METRO Net Benefits                                    176.7  99.4  99.4  119.4 119.4 119.4 119.4 119.4 119.4         109.0
Net Present Value =    932.2
All Urban Transports Net Benefits                       -2.3 290.5 291.0 374.6 376.3 376.3 377.3 377.7 377.8         363.4
Net Present Value =  2,402.7
U,
CEG & RIOGAS Net Benefits                             648.7
CERJ Net Benefits                                     638.3
Note:
( I) net of proceeds from the sale of assets of Banco do BANERJ (estimated at R$ 1,700 million)
Sensitivity Analysis
Net Present Value
1998 million R$
Base Case with Discount Rate of 12%                   7,742
Discount Rate of 17%                                  5,093
Discount Rate of 20%                                  4,045
Public BANERJ without Operating losses                3,652
METRO and FLUMITRENS not Liquidated                   7,140



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original       Revised
Agreement       Section      Covenant Type    Present      Fulfillment    Fulfillment   Description of Covenant                 Comments
Status        Date           date
Loan           2.03          Implementation        C       December 31,                  Closing Date                            Loan closed as of December 30, 1998
1998
Loan           3.02          Implementation        C       June 30, 1998                 Program Review                          Program review took place June 24-26, 1998
Loan           4.01          Accounts/audit        C       6 months after                Maintain separate accounts and have them,
end of fiscal                and special account and SOEs, audited
year
Loan           Schedule 1,   Flow/utilization of   C                                     Retroactive financing of up to US$150,000
Para 2(a)     project funds                                              equivalent, for expenditures made up to                                                      Jn
twelve months before loan signing                                                           tJi
Loan           Schedule I,   Flow/utilization of   C                                     Bank to disburse US$75 million after
Para 2(b)(i)   funds                                                      Program Review has taken place and the
Bank is satisfied that the actions in
Schedule 5 have been taken in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank



Original        Revised
Agreement        Section      Covenant Type       Present     Fulfillment     Fulfillment   Description of Covenant                   Comments
Status         Date           date
Loan            Schedule I,    Flow/utilization of   NC                                      When the aggregate of the proceeds of       Bids for the Concession of CEDAE were invited,
Para 2(b)(ii)   funds                                                        withdrawals shall have reached US$125      but auction was canceled after state assembly
million, Bank to disburse US$50 million    voted aginst privatization of CEDAE in
whenever concession contracts have been    November 1998. Tranche was subsequently
signed for the operation of water and      canceled.
sewerage systems with a population of at
least 2.5 million persons in aggregate, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including provisions that the
operations of such systems shall be in
accordance with (A) waste water treatment
targets as provided in the Program Letter,
(B) environmental obligations determined
on the basis of environmental audits
satisfactory to the Bank, provided that
conditions in paras. 3,4,6,7( a) and 8 of
Schedule 5 shall be considered as fulfilled
only if the concessionaires are firms that are
not part of the Brazilian federal, state or
municipal public sector.
Loan            Schedule 1,    Flow/utilization of    C                                       Bank may require withdrawals to be made
Para 4        funds                                                          on the basis of SOEsfbr expenditures in                                                           O
respect of Incremental Recurrent Costs and
Severance Payments
Loan            Schedule 5,   Implementation          C                                      Program Review: Progress in the            In compliance at the time of the Program Review
Para I                                                                       liquidation of Banco do Estado do Rio de   (June 26, 1998). Liquidation of PREVI-BANERJ
Janiero SA and PREVI-BANERJ is             well underway; full liquidation of Banco do
occurring with a plan acceptable to the    Estado conditional on Senate approval of debt
Bank.                                      restructuring agreement between the state and the
federal governments.
Loan            Schedule 5,   Implementation         NC                                      Program Review: ASEP-RJ is opcrating       In compliance at the thime of the Program Review.
Para 2                                                                       under an operational structure satistactory  Since January 1999, however, the new
to the Bank.                               administration has announced plans to change
this structure and, in the meantime, has removed
most ASEP staff except commissioners.
Loan            Schcdule5,   Implementation           C                                      Program Review: A contract for the          Concession contract sigined on January 27, 1998
Para 3                                                                       concession of METRO lias been signed
Loan            Schedule 5,   Iimplementation         C                                      Program Review: A contract fotr tihc        Concession auctionied on June 15, 1998; contract
Para 4                                                                       concession of FLUMITRENS lias becn         signed on September 17, 1998.
signed
Loan            Schedule 5,   Implementation          C                                       Program Review: Progress in liquidation of   In complianice at the time of program review.
Para 5                                                                       C rC and SERVE (two bus comnpanies) is     Liquidation of assets and liabilities continues.
occurring in accordance with a plan
acceptable to the Bank.



Original        Revised
Agreement        Section       Covenant Type       Present      Fulfillment     Fulfillment   Description of Covenant                    Comments
Status         Date            date
Loan            Schedule 5,   Implementation           C                                        Program Review: CONERJ has had its         Concession contract signed and sale of shares
Para 6                                                                         services concessioned and its shares sold  signed on February 12, 1998.
Loan            Schedule 5,   Implementation           C                                        Program Review: CODERTE has had its        Most of CODERTE's assets were sold when the
Para 7                                                                         shares transferred or the majority of its  Menezes Cortes Bus Terminal was sold and its
assets transferred or leased; or had its assets  shares transferred on October 28, 1998.
transferred to municipalities; or has been
liquidated.
Loan            Schedule 5,   Implementation           C                                        Program Review: Trhe majority of the       Concession contracts and sale of shares of CEG
Para 8                                                                         voting shares of CEG has been sold.        signed on July 21, 1997 and of RIOGAS on July
18, 1997.
Loan            Schedule 5.    Financial               C                                      Program Review: Borrower's fiscal performance in
Para 9         Performance                                                    1997 substantially consistent with the capital spending
program and fiscal indicators set forth in the Program
Letter.
Definitions
C = covenant complied with;  CD = complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC = not complied with
U1I
-a



58
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with applicable Operational Manual Statements, including
with Operational Directive 4.00 (Environmental Policies); and Operational Directive 4.07 (Water Resources
Management).
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle       Planned          Revised            Actual
Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$    Weeks   US$ '000
'000            '000
Preparation to Appraisal         n.a      n.a   172.3   512.6    121.1        498.3
Appraisal                        n.a      n.a    31.0    98.1      34.8        96.5
Negotiations through Board       15.0    40.9    48.5   161.2      50.6        161.9
approval
Supervision                    117.5   357.2    50.6   169.2       46.6       178.6
Completion                       2.0      6.4     0.0    20.8       7.2        20.0
TOTAL                            n.a      n.a   302.4   961.9    253.1        955.3
n.a: not available.



59
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
[                                                     Performance rating
Stage of       Monthlyear    Number of    Days in          Specialized staff    Implement   Development          Types of problems
project cycle                     persons        field      skills represented      ation       objectives
status
Throueb avvraisal
Identification    October 2-11,       9            10       Priv. Sec. Dev
1995                                       (PSD)., Energy Eng.,
Economists,,
Highways Eng.,
Tansport Sector.,
Human Resources,
Water/San. Sector.
Preparation I    December II -        8            5        PSD, Instit. Dev..,
15, 1995                                   Economists,
Disbursements.,
Procurement., Soc.
Security
Preparation 2    January 29-         20            5        PSD, Economists,
February 2, 1996                           Disbursements., Soc.
Security. , Human
Resources., Instit.
Dev., Financial
Sector., Transport
Sector., Water/San
Sector., Energy Eng.
Pre-appraisal    March 5-15,          15           10       PSD, Economists,
1996                                       Instit. Dev.., Legal,
Financial Sector.,
Soc. Security,
Disbursements.,
Water/San. Sector.,
Transp. Sector.,
Environment.,
Regulation., Energy
Eng.
Appraisal       May 20-31, 1996       11           11       PSD, Legal, Instit.
Dev., Economists,
Regulation.,
Transport Sector.,
Water/San. Sector.,
Environment.
Follow-up 1     November 24-          6            6        PSD, Regulation.,
29,1996                                    Water Concessions,
Water/San. Sector.,
Environment.,
Economist.
Follow-up 2     January 12-17,        5            6        PSD, Transport
1997                                       Sector., Transport
Concessions,
Economists



60
Performance rating
Stage of       Month/year    Number of    Days in          Specialized staff    Implement   Development          Types of problems
project cycle                      persons       field       skills represented     ation        objectives
status
Nezotiations through Board Aoproval
Follow-up       April 13-18,          7            5        PSD, Economist,
1997                                       Water Concession,
Transport Sector.,
Regulation.,
Transport Concession
Follow-up       June 1-6, 1997        7            6        PSD, Economist,
Water Concessions,
Regulation.,
Transport concession,
Water/San. Sector.
Follow-up       July 6-10, 1997       6            4        PSD, Economists.,
Regulation, Water
Concessions.,
Environment
SuDervision
1.              September 15-         3            16       PSD, Transport            S              S         Slow preparation of
30, 1997                                   Concessions., Water                                 FLUMITRENS concession
Concessions.                                       documents; need to ensure
adhesion of key
municipalities to proposed
privatization of CEDAE to
ensure its success.
2.              November 1-21,        6            13       PSD, Environment.,         S             S         Delays in signing debt
1997                                       Economist., Water                                   agreement with federal
Concessions,                                       govenment; slow preparation
Transport                                          of FLUMITRENS
Concessions,                                       concessioning, need to
Regulation.                                        convince municipalities of
benefits of CEDAE
privatization.
3.              November 3-6,         1            4        Energy Engineer        No Rating     No Rating     Delayed appointment of
1997 (Partial                                                                                 regulatory commission
Mission)                                                                                       members
4.              February 10-20,       3            9        PSD, Water                 S             S         Delays in provision of legal
1998                                       Concessions.,                                       opinions necessary for loan
Transport                                          signing; poor performance of
Concessions.                                       electricity concessionaire;
concem with dependence of
FLUMITRENS
concessioning model on state
investment subsidies;
privatization of CEDAE
dependent on support by
municipalities.
5.              March I8- April       2            18       PSD, Water                 S             S         State conceding authority for
4, 1998                                    Concessions.                                        water challenged by
municipalities: Federal
Supreme Court to decide;



61
Performance rating
Stage of       Month/year    Number of    Days in         Specialized staff    Implement   Development         Types of problems
project cycle                     persons       field      skills represented     ation        objectives
status
6.             May 1998              2            6       PSD, Water                 S             S         Bidders for FLUMITRENS
Concessions                                       may require more time to
prepare bids pending Senate
approval of Bank-financed
FLUMITRENS
modernization project;
uncertainty in legal context
for water concessions still
unresolved.
7.             June 24-26, 1998      2            3        PSD, Economist.           S             S         Formal Project Review- All
conditions met, except for
auction of FLUMITRENS
and sale of CODERTE,
delaying disbursement of
second tranche.
8.             November 7-18,        4            12      PSD, Water                 S             U         State Assembly votes against
1998"'                                    Concessions.,                                      privatization of CEDAE,
Economist, Industrial                             making concessioning
Engineer                                          impossible despite agreement
with municipalities. Federal
Supreme Court decision still
pending; discussions of state
completion report/ICR
preparation.
9.             January 18-25,         5           9        PSD, Water                S             U         New administration
1998                                      Concessions.,                                      challenges regulatory
Water/San.                                        framework for private
Economist.,                                       provision of public services
Economist, Industrial                             established under the project;
Engineer                                          review of request for
extension of closing date;
discussion with new
government of requirements
for ICR preparation.
Requirements.
1 Also completion mission



62                              Annex I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211-BR)
Annex 1: The Privatization of BANERJ
Initial Situation
101.  BANERJ had been in a weak financial situation since the early nineties, due to a long history
of overstaffing, over-extended branching and bad loan decisions. It began incurring substantial losses
after the introduction of the Plano Real in July 1994. The Bank's net worth declined from R$124
million at the end of 1993 to a negative -R$1.03 billion at the end of 1994. Concerned with the
situation, the state Government requested the Central Bank to maintain BANERJ under a special
temporary administrative regime (RAET- Regime de Administracao Especial Temporaria) in 1995.
At the end of 1994, BANERJ was placed under intervention by the Central Bank for one year.
102.  Central Bank intervention did not succeed in stemming out operating losses, which in 1995
grew to -R$715 million (from -R$260 million in 1994), and total losses, which grew to -R$754
million (from -R$376 million in 1994). BANERJ's net worth further declined to a negative -1.9
billion by the end of 1995. In December 1995, monthly operational results (operating revenues, less
operating costs) had reached R$-35 million per month, equivalent to R$-420 million per year. With
growing financial charges incurred to finance the growing negative net worth (about R$40 million
per month), net results of BANERJ amounted to R$-75 million per month in December 1995,
equivalent to R$-900 million per year.
103.  In October 1995, the state Government and the Central Bank agreed to extend RAET for
another twelve months and contract a private bank to manage BANERJ and prepare it for
privatization or liquidation. The tender for the management and privatization contract was won by
the private investment bank Banco Bozano Simonsen (BBS) in December 1995.
The Management and Financial Advisory Contract
104.  BBS was contracted for one year to perform two tasks: (a) to manage BANERJ and prepare it
for privatization or liquidation; and (b) to act as financial adviser to the state government in case of
privatization. BBS remuneration was originally as follows: (a) for the management of BANERJ: a
variable fee equivalent to 20% of incremental monthly operational results over their December 1995
levels and (b) for the sale of BANERJ, a success fee of 5% of sales proceeds. The total value of the
contract was originally estimated at about R$20 million, including both the management and the
success fees.
105.  Results, however, were way above expectations. The remuneration provisions of the contract
were renegotiated after six months, in July 1996, at the request of the state, which estimated that the



63                              Annex 1
variable fee due under the contract formula had become too high and politically unacceptable. The
remuneration formula was adjusted, limiting it to a cap of R$36 million for the variable management
fee. By July 1996, BBS had already earned the maximum variable management fee.
106.  BBS managed to virtually eliminate operational losses: from R$-35 million in December
1995, the operating margin reached R$0.5 million in September 1996 (last month before the split of
BANERJ between two entities) and was maintained positive on average subsequently until
privatization. Savings achieved are equivalent to R$420 million per year, plus equivalent financial
charges needed to support the corresponding increase in negative equity (about R$80 million, at
interest rates of over 20% prevailing in 1997), or a total of R$500 million per year. This was
achieved through reorganization, reduction in personnel (from 11,900 to 6,400); number of agencies
(from 219 to 193); and regional branches (from 19 to 12); reduction in administrative costs and
improvements in financial management.
Main Steps in Privatization and Difficulties Encountered
107.  The privatization process faced a number of unexpected difficulties. During the first half of
1996, BBS identified hidden liabilities of unexpected magnitude. These consisted of: (a) unfunded
pension liabilities totaling R$1.7 billion, including a R$760 million deficit of Previ-BANERJ, the
BANERJ pension fund, and complementary pension liabilities, amounting to close to R$1 billion,
irregularly assumed by BANERJ itself as part of three plans to provide early retirement incentives;
and (b) fiscal liabilities and potential labor and civil and administrative liabilities which might result
from judicial actions against BANERJ, totaling close to R$ 1.0 billion.
108.  As outright privatization became impossible, the state government was faced with two
alternatives: (a) liquidate BANERJ, which would in any case require the state sooner or later to
assume all hidden fiscal, labor, and pension liabilities, plus the cost of personnel lay-offs; liquidation
was also discarded because losses to uninsured depositors and inter-bank creditors could lead to a
banking crisis; or (b) separate BANERJ's viable parts into a salable entity and privatize it. This
would require the state to capitalize the Bank beforehand, but would allow BANERJ to continue as a
commercial entity and avoid the financial and political cost of laying off all personnel and of
defaulting to depositors and creditors. The state government elected the second option.
109. In September 1996, the state government thus approved a strategy calling for the division of
BANERJ into two entities: a commercially viable bank (Banco BANERJ S.A.), which would
receive: (a) BANERJ's banking assets with normal business risks and a R$3.3 billion claim on Banco
do Estado which would be converted into federal titles before privatization; and (b) corresponding
clearly identified liabilities and an equity of R$ 181 million. All other remaining assets and liabilities,
including all potential and hidden liabilities and doubtful assets, and the responsibility to refund the
R$3.3 billion debt to the Central Bank incurred to capitalize Banco BANERJ would remain with a
residual entity, "Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro", formally the shareholder of Banco BANERJ
until its privatization, which would subsequently be liquidated. The contract transferring assets and
liabilities from Banco do Estado to Banco BANERJ S.A was approved and signed; and Banco
BANERJ received an equity injection in cash of R$181 million from Banco do Estado. Banco
BANERJ S.A formally came into existence on November 1, 1997. On December 29, 1996, the
Central Bank ordered the liquidation of Banco do Estado.



64                               Annex I
110.  Bidding documents for the privatization of Banco BANERJ S.A. and BANERJ Seguros, its
wholly-owned subsidiary, were published on November 4, 1996. The minimum price was set at
R$436.7 million for Banco BANERJ, and R$43.3 million for BANERJ Seguros, thus totaling R$480
million, based on the discounted stream of future cash flows from operationls. The auction was
scheduled for December 17, 1996.
111.  The privatization process was immediately faced with a series of unexpected legal and labor-
related difficulties which forced the postponement of the auction. The state government faced very
strong resistance from BANERJ employees to privatization and a complete refusal to negotiate a
solution to the deficit of Previ-BANERJ in which both the state and the employees would share the
cost of financing its deficit. The unions also launched a series of actions which affected the
operations of BANERJ and scared away depositors and investors (BANERJ lost part of its time and
savings deposits over this six-month period).
112.  As soon as the Central Bank decreed the liquidation of Banco do Estado, SUSEP ordered the
liquidation of Previ-BANERJ in January 1997 (since an entity under liquidation could not legally
continue to sponsor a pension plan). Faced with the impossibility of a negotiated settlement with the
employees, the state government had already decided to directly assume all pension liabilities due by
Previ-BANERJ and BANERJ itself to retired employees and their dependents and to active
employees11 (amounting to about R$2.0 billion). However, while Previ-BANERJ continued to pay
benefits due to retirees normally, complementary retirement benefits due by BANERJ itself under the
already mentioned illegal pension plans could not legally be paid by Banco do Estado. Resuming
these payments required the state (which had decided to assume these liabilities as well) to obtain the
necessary legal and budgetary authorizations, which were obtained from the state assembly only in
June 1997. These delays caused a rash of demonstrations, interference with BANERJ operations and
legal suits against the state and Banco BANERJ itself. In two cases, courts injunctions required
Banco BANERJ to pay early retirement incentives, although these were subsequently revoked after
challenged by the state Government. This raised strong concems among potential buyers about
possible legal responsibilities of the privatized bank with respect to pension liabilities and other labor,
fiscal or judicial liabilities.
113. In January 1997, the state Government reached a debt restructuring agreement with the
Federal Government which included federal funding at concessional interest rates to pay-off
BANERJ pension and other hidden liabilities (R$3.1 billion) as well as the refinancing of Banco do
Estado's indebtedness to the Central Bank (R$3.3 billion). However, with respect to pension and
other hidden liabilities, slow approval of the debt deal by the Senate and lack of federal budget
appropriations in the 1997 budget blocked the effective availability of these funds. In June 1997, the
state finally obtained a R$3.1 billion bridge loan from Caixa Economica Federal (CEF), with federal
guarantee, the proceeds of which were deposited into two guarantee funds, which were established on
June 13, 1997: (a) a fund, in the amount of R$2.15 billion, to cover BANERJ and Previ-BANERJ
pension liabilities, including any unknown liability emerging from subsequent legal actions; and (b) a
fund, in the amount of R$0.94 billion, to cover any hidden liability emerging from civil, commercial,
labor, fiscal and administrative court actions against Banco BANERJ having their origin in
obligations of Banco do Estado. These funds are administered by CEF and will be disbursed to
beneficiaries upon substantiated order by either the state or Banco BANERJ.
benefits due to all active employees of BANERJ as of the date of liquidation of Previ-BANERJ and Banco do Estado,
at their option either in the form of a lumpsum payment or monthly incomes on the date of their retirement.



65                              Annex I
114.  During these six months, the state also faced a series of court battles, in state and federal
courts, usually civil actions initiated to prevent privatization. In all, eighteen requests for injunction
were introduced in court, one of which successfully suspending the auction until it was overruled by
the state high court.
115.  The state re-published the invitation to bid in June 1997. The minimum price was reduced to
R$310 million, following exclusion from assets of non-operational real estate under litigation (for a
total value of R$1 16 million), and of EBSE, a subsidiary company, which were all transferred back to
Banco do Estado. The privatization auction finally took place successfully on June 26, 1997.
Results of Privatization
116.  Eight institutions pre-qualified to participate in the auction of Banco BANERJ SA and
BANERJ Seguros, one of them foreign. Four private banks (ITAU, BRADESCO, BCN and
PACTUAL) deposited the guarantees required to participate in the auction. However, only one
(ITAU) submitted a bid on the day of the auction. Banco BANERJ was sold to ITAU for R$3 11.1
million, only R$ 1.1 million above the minimum price. Payment was all made in state debt
instruments (R$82 million in State Privatization Fund Quotas and the rest in overdue debt
instruments of ELETROBRAS). Thus, since these instruments are negotiated on secondary markets
at about 50% of face value, Banco BANERJ S.A. cost its buyer only about R$155 million.
117.  In the end, competition was low, despite the significant incentives offered: recapitalization
prior to privatization by borrowing from the Central Bank; assumption by the state government of all
hidden liabilities, backed by guarantee funds; exclusion of all doubtful assets and liabilities; transfer
of all inactive staff on payroll to Banco do Estado; allowing 100% of payment in "moedas podres";
opening of competition to foreign banks; and, last but not least, granting Banco BANERJ S.A
exclusivity to manage the state government accounts, including payroll deposits of all state civil
servants for five years. This modest response may be attributed to various factors: (a) limited
demand at the time--probably only two national banks had the capacity of absorbing BANERJ-- as
other large private banks had already made other acquisitions; (b) wait- and- see attitude by foreign
and domestic banks motivated by the still short history of the Brazilian macro-economic stabilization
program; and (c) lingering difficulty in convincing potential buyers that the legal arrangements made
to protect them against hidden liabilities were sufficient. It should be noted that lack of demand also
affected the privatization of the two other, substantially smaller, public banks which were privatized
subsequently, Credireal and Meridional, for which there were only one and two offers, respectively.
Liquidation of Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
118.  Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro is presently in extra-judicial liquidation by the Central
Bank. As already commented, Banco do Estado inherited large debts to the Central Bank (R$3.64
billion at the end of 1997), which are far from compensated by its assets: these essentially consist of
state and federal debt instruments ("moedas podres") of about R$400 million (mostly those obtained
from the sale of Banco BANERJ); a R$457 million housing credit portfolio (with a 13% default rate),
a R$209 million portfolio from the national housing financial system (mostly FCVS); R$695 million



66                                  Annex I
in various loans, mostly to the state; and R$112 million in real estate12. In mid-1998, the remaining
assets were estimated at about R$1.7 billion.  A further R$1.6 billion in contingent liabilities
(resulting from legal actions) have been identified by the liquidator since October 1997, which the
state will assume and for which an additional loan from CEF of R$1.2 billion has been obtained.
After liquidation, the proceeds of asset sales will be used to cover the balance of contingent liabilities
(R$0.4 billion) and the balance (R$1.3 billion) will be transferred to the state treasury.
119.  Banco do Estado still administers a payroll of about R$1.0 million per month, for about 600
inactive ex-employees of BANERJ who could not be dismissed immediately because of compulsory
requirements of minimum time periods during which the employer must continue to pay them, even
if these have opted for pre-retirement or incentive packages for voluntary departure and received their
indemnities: personnel under medical license or having suffered work-related accidents, union
personnel, and pre-retired permanent staff. They also include staff having been re-integrated by court
order (even after having received their indemnities), or staff seconded to other institutions. Resolving
these latter cases requires difficult case by case negotiations.
120.  The task of the liquidator is also complicated by bureaucratic requirements affecting the
activities of public enterprises and state regulations governing the disposal of assets. However, plans
are being discussed with the state government to complete the liquidation by the end of 1998. The
state would assume all liabilities to the Central Bank, and all remaining assets and personnel
administration would be transferred to the state, which would administer the legal and administrative
processes of disposal directly. Banco do Estado would then be declared extinct. Federal funding for
assumption of liabilities to the Central Bank is being discussed in the framework of renegotiations of
the state debt to the federal government.
Liquidation of Previ-BANERJ
121.  All liabilities of Previ-BANERJ will be formally transferred to the state government as soon
as a contract has been signed betwen Previ-BANERJ, the state, and each participant'3. As of January
1999, over 95% of participants had signed. In the meantime, although it can no longer receive
contributions, Previ-BANERJ continues to make payments to its retirees, pay the salaries of its staff
of about 30, and cover other administrative and legal expenses, and administer revenues from its
portfolio of assets.
122.  Previ-BANERJ is also facing potential "hidden" labor liabilities of its own: until its
liquidation was decreed, Previ-BANERJ had no staff of its own, but was operated by BANERJ staff.
About 2,500 legal actions, initiated by this former staff against Previ-BANERJ, are being processed.
Previ-BANERJ is awaiting a court decision as to its liability in this matter. The magnitude of these
potential liabilities is not known yet. These are not covered under the Guarantee Funds mentioned
earlier (labor liabilities are covered only when impacting on Banco BANERJ S.A).
123.  Paying-off these labor liabilities may well absorb a substantial portion (if not all) of the
proceeds of the sale of the assets of Previ-BANERJ (investments), which, in May 1996, were
12 this real estate (land and building of the Sao Paulo office) was originally transferred to Banco BANERJ, but as a judge
granted an injunction to revise the basis for its valuation (which was claimed to be too low). To prevent this
injunction to cause further delays in the auction, these assets were transferred back to Banco do Estado.
13 while the state has already assumed payment of all benefits due under BANERJ complementary pension plans



67                                Annex I
estimated to amount to about R$450 million "i. Any surplus will revert to the state (deposited into
the Guarantee Funds) when liquidation is completed. There are no previsions today as to the date of
extinction of Previ-BANERJ.
Costs and Benefits
124.  Almost all costs associated with the privatization of Banco BANERJ and the liquidation of
Banco do Estado are the cost of paying for mistakes of many years of bad management by various
administrations. These costs would have been incurred in all circumstances and under any option.
The government had three choices: (a) recapitalizing BANERJ and allow it to continue as a public
enterprise; (b) liquidation; and (c) the option which was selected. Their cost to the Treasury would
have been as follows:
*  The first option was rejected because the state had not been able to manage BANERJ properly in
the past and there was no reason to think that it could perform better in the future-the state could
not permit that contingent liabilities necessarily emerging from accumulated losses continue to
rise. In any case, the cost of recapitalization would have been at least equal to the initial negative
equity (-R$1.9 billion), plus all hidden and contingent liabilities (-R$3.1 billion under Contas A
and B, plus additional contingent liabilities recognized by Banco do Estado amounting to R$1.6
billion, or a total of R$4.7 billion), plus an equity injection required to meet prudential regulations
(say, R$0.2 billion), or a total of R$6.8 billion.
*  The second option, liquidation, would have higher costs as the option which was selected
because, under Brazilian law, mixed companies cannot go bankrupt and the controlling entity (the
state in this case) would have been responsible for all liabilities of BANERJ, including all hidden
and contingent liabilities. In addition, the state would have to fire all personnel of BANERJ, and
this would have cost an estimated R$250 million. Overall, the cost of liquidation to the state
would have been equivalent to the negative net worth (all liabilities less the proceeds of sales of
all assets, or -R$1.9 billion, plus all hidden and contingent liabilities (R$4.7 billion)), plus
personnel retrenchment costs (R$0.25 billion), or a total of R$6.85 billion.
*  The third option (splitting BANERJ into two entities, selling the good one and liquidating the bad
one), which was selected, cost the assumption of obligations to the Central Bank (used to
recapitailze Banco BANERJ before its sale), or R$3.3 billion, plus the cost of hidden and
contingent liabilities (R$4.7 billion), plus the equity injection to Banco BANERJ (R$0.18
billion), less the proceeds of Banco BANERJ sale (R$0.33 billion), less the proceeds of asset sale
of Banco do Estado when liquidated (R$1.7 billion), or a total of R$6.15 billion.
125.  Thus the cost of the option selected was probably lower not higher than of the other two
options.   The state government must be credited for confronting this issue and exposing and
assuming large existing liabilities in a clear and transparent way.   The major benefit of this
operation, however, is to have stopped the drain of resources (which sooner or later would fallen
upon the state to finance) amount over R$700 million in 1995, and kept escalating until BBS took
over this break of restructuring BANERJ and preparing it for privatization.
14 "Resultados da Avaliacao Atuarial em 31 de Maio de 1996"- Mercer MW- Outubro de 1996



68                                 Annex I
Key Lessons Learned
126.  The state of Rio de Janeiro was a pioneer in dealing with the huge problems of its state bank,
an issue common to many states in Brazil. In retrospect, the main lessons may be summarized as
follows:
*  Privatizing or liquidating a state bank requires sustained political commitment at the highest level
of state government.
*  Splitting the bank into a "good bank" (to be privatized) and a "bad bank" (to be liquidated) may
be necessary when the financial condition is so bad (very high negative net-worth) that outright
privatization is not possible, and when poor financial results are attributed to years of bad
operational management. It is then clear that the state will have to assume a large portion of
liabilities in any event, but that the potential for improvements in the "good bank" is large.
Splitting is not necessary if the state bank is relatively efficient in its operations and its poor
financial condition is attributed to the bad performance of a large debtor (such as the state itself).
In this case, the best approach would be for the state to secure funds from the federal govemment
to re-finance this debt and re-capitalize the bank, and privatize the state bank with all its assets
and liabilities.
l Unless necessary, splitting should be avoided, as dealing with the "remnants" to be liquidated
carry a large administrative and legal burden for the state after privatization. It is usually much
more difficult for a state to deal with asset disposal and labor-related issues than for a private
enterprise, and this should be left as much as possible to the private buyer, even if the cost of
doing so is reflected in a lower purchasing price, or explicit compensation payments are made by
the state to the new owner for dealing with these questions (in any event, the privatized bank may
remain liable for legal actions initiated before privatization). There also may be a temptation to
keep the "bad bank" going longer than necessary, due to political pressures or a desire to use an
existing legal entity for other purposes. Speedy liquidation will avoid this, but will normally
require the state treasury to absorb these assets and liabilities and the responsibility for dealing
with them, which may absorb its time and efforts for many years to come.
*  It is essential to identify and deal up-front with the problem of hidden liabilities, in particular
unfunded pension liabilities. These obligations should be identified as soon as the decision to
privatize has been taken, and resolved before publishing the bidding documents-- negotiated
solutions to resolve pension fund deficits must be agreed upon, or, if not possible, liquidation
must be decreed (with parallel assumption of liabilities by the state already clear). Doing it late in
the process is sure to lead to staff opposition and other court actions which will delay
privatization pending resolution of the issue. Mainly, it will damage the bank's prospects by
scaring away its depositors and potential buyers.
*  Private management contracts are useful to prepare the bank for privatization when years of bad
management and poor records make valuation and the identification of hidden liabilities difficult.
Remuneration of the private manager based on incremental operational results is an effective
incentive to good management. However, (a) the remuneration percentage should be based on
the premise that financial improvements are likely to be substantially above expectations and
should thus be small enough to remain politically acceptable while providing the manager
continuous incentives for improvement until the end of the contract; and (b) treatment of debt



69                               Annex I
collection efforts and debt renegotiation of the overdue credit portfolio and associated impacts on
provisions (and therefore operational results) must be clearly addressed in the contract.
* Success fees expressed as a percentage of privatization proceeds are also a good incentive to
proper valuation of the minimum price and active sale promotion. When a "good bank/bad bank"
split is proposed, however, there may be an in-built bias for the financial adviser to allocate an
excessive share of doubtful assets and liabilities to the bad bank to maximize the selling price
(although, given the lack of interest in BANERJ's auction, there is no evidence that this would
have been the case for BANERJ). The state government must maintain a close dialogue with its
financial advisor to avoid such occurrences.
* Governments should avoid as much as possible granting exclusivity rights to the management of
state accounts to former public banks. Lack of competition is likely to be detrimental to the
government as well as public servants being served by the privatized bank.



70                              Annex 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211-BR)
Annex 2: CERJ
127.  CERJ was privatized in November 1996, and the concession contract was signed in early
December 1996. CERJ was purchased by a consortium composed of two companies (Empresa
Electrica de Panama S.A and Sociedade Panamena de Electricidad) controlled by Chile's Chilectra,
EDP Eletricidade de Portugal S.A and Endesa desarrollo S.A. It has thus been two years since the
company has been managed by its private owner. A summary of performance since 1995 is
presented in attachment.
128.  In the first two years, the concessionaire undertook to very substantially improve productivity
and reduce commercial losses. The number of employees was reduced by almost 60%, including
about 50% in the first year. Total losses were reduced from a record 290/o (including 11% technical
losses and 18% commercial losses) to 19% (including 11% technical losses and 9% commercial
losses) over a period of two years. As a result, labor productivity tripled and sales increased at a rate
of 12% per year, compared to an average of 2.7% per year between 1991 and 1996. From losses of
R$267 million in 1996, the company became profitable, with net profits reaching about R$49 million
in 1998.
129.  This adjustment did not go without difficulties.  For lack of investments over many years,
CERJ's facilities were outdated, in poor condition, and overloaded, and, according to the
concessionaire, on the verge of collapse (the overload of sub-stations was 110-115% in five sub-
stations, 135% in one, and 150% in one). Problems with supply from Electrobras combined perhaps
with the combination of firing many experienced operators and the push for increasing sales, resulted
in extensive problems in 1997 and early 1998, with the duration and numbers of interruptions
increasing significantly in 1997. This, combined with billing-related issues, led to widespread
disatisfaction among users (PROCON data show a fourfold increase in registered complaints)15. In
February 1998, ANEEL, the federal regulator, audited CERJ and fined it in the amount of about
R$800,000 (CERJ has appealed in court). The situation appears to have improved afterwards. Poor
performance in 1997 and delayed response from ANEEL led ANEEL to seek assistance from ASEP
in the handling of customers complaints and monitoring and control of CERJ, and an agreement was
signed between both institutions at the end of 1998, delegating monitoring and control functions to
ASEP.
130.  CERJ has announced an investment program totaling about R$500 million over five years, a
rate three times higher than average yearly investments before privatization, and has already invested
heavily in the recuperation of the system (R$98 million in 1997, R$178 million in 1998 and a
15 however, PROCON data must be interpreted cautiously, because the number of registered complaints remains small
overall, and the increase may partially reflect the opening of a new office in Niteroi.



71                               Annex 2
projected R$1 35 million in 1999. Investments are focusing on sub-stations and improvements in the
distribution network. It is expected that these investments will lead to significant improvements in
the service performance of CERJ.
131.  The concessionaire stated that the company's shareholders did not have difficulties securing
funding for the investments. On the date of purchase, CERJ had relatively few debts. Subsequently,
debt increased because CERJ borrowed to purchase COELCE, the Ceara electricity utility. However,
this debt, which had been in US$, had been converted into Reais before the devaluation of the
currency and its term subsequently extended.
132.  The concessionaire was satisfied with the process of privatization and with the concession
contract. Its chief concern, however, was that automatic price adjustment formulas in the contract
were not being respected, as ANEEL had not yet approved the increase in tariffs motivated by the
recent increases in electricity supply costs derived from the devaluation of the Real.



72                                            Annex 2
Attachment- CERJ- Indicators of Performance
Before Privatization              After Pnvatization
1995            1996              1997              1998
Labor Productivitv
Number of Consumers                         1,208,065         1,217,286         1,340,573         1,451,776
Number of Employees                             4,804             4,364             2,288             1,897
Energy Sold (Gwh)                               5,458             5,733             6,424             7,208
Number of Consumers per Employee                  251               279               586               765
Energy Sold per Employee                          1.14             1.31              2.81              3.80
Effective Performance of the System
DEC                                               32.2            41.00             47.90             31.31
FEC                                               31.1            35.80             40.60             29.91
Losses (%t
Total (technical and commercial)                27.3%             29.3%             25.3%             19.1%
Financial Performance (Thousand Reais)
Operating Revenues                            418,447           464,947           598,033           753,161
Operating Profit                              (61,434)         (264,185)           28,665            60,101
Net Profit                                    (64,758)         (267,401)           28,285            48,940
Investments                                    39,949            39,949            92,006           178,260
Market
Number of Consumers
Residential                                 1,076,143         1,079,774         1,193,282          1,299,626
Comercial                                      93,589           104,537           113,248           116,878
Industrial                                      5,660             5,534             5,701             5,802
Rural                                          19,767            20,425            21,176            22,018
Institutional                                   5,900             6,144             6,282             6,581
Resale                                              2                 2                 2                 2
Other                                           1,004               870               882               869
Total                                        1,208,065         1,217,286         1,340,573         1,451,776
Growth Rate                                     1.82%             0.76%            10.12%             8.29%
Energy Sold (Gwh)
Residential                                     2,127             2,237             2,558             3,123
Comercial                                         899               974             1,136             1,290
Industral                                       1,448             1,490             1,615             1,594
Rural                                             141               156               170               189
Institutional                                     174              410               463                510
Resale                                            204               265               275               290
Other                                             201               201               207               212
Total                                           5,458             5,733             6,424             7,208
Growth Rate                                                        5.0%             12.0%             12.2%
Source:1995: Edital de Venda; 1996-98: CERJ
Definitions: DEC: Cumulated number of hours of interruption of supply per year
FEC: Number of interruptions per year



73                               Annex 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211-BR)
Annex 3: CEG & RIOGAS
New Ownership Structure
133. The auction of 56.4% of shares of CEG and 75% of shares of RIOGAS took place on July 14,
1997. Also, 9% of the CEG's shares were sold to employees on June 16, 1997.
134. The auction was won by a consortium composed of Gas Natural SDG (Spain), ENRON
(USA), Iberdrola (Portugal), Pluspetrol Energy (Argentina). For CEG, ENRON participated through
GEC ltda. For RIOGAS, ENRON participated through Ementhal Ltda and Iberdrola participated
through Borgogna ltda.
135.  Shareholders of CEG and Riogas are listed below:
Shareholders                  CEG (%)                RIOGAS(%)
Before       Afer        Before       Afer
State of Rio de Janeiro           65.41                    75.00
Gas Natural SDG S.A.                           18.90                    25.00
Iberdrola Investimentos Ltda                   9.87
Pluspetrol Energy S.A.                         2.26
GEC Participacoes Ltda                         25.38
Ementhal Ltda                                                           25.00
Borgogna Ltda                                                           25.00
Employees                                      9.00
Federal Governiment               34.55        34.55
PETROGRAS                                                  25.00        25.00
Others                             0.04        0.04
Total    100.00       100.00      100.00       100.00
136.  The concession contracts were signed on July 18, 1997 for RIOGAS and July 21, 1997 for
CEG. RIOGAS was created as a result of a negotiation between the State and PETROBRAS in
which PETROBRAS accepted to transfer its industrial clients and distribution network in exchange
for a 25% participation in the capital of RIOGAS.



74                              Annex 3
Amounts Paid for Concession and Timing of Payments (R$millo-
Minimum         Actual           %
Price in Bid                     Agio
Documents
CEG
- Auction of 56.41% Shares    250.02         464.23          86.7
- Employees 9% of Shares'6     26.60          26.60
Sub-total CEG     276.62          490.83
RIOGAS
- Auction of 75% of Shares    105.75         157.95          49.4
Total                382.37         648.78          69.7
Concessionaire Assessment
(a) The Process
137.  The concessionaire's representative was satisfied overall with the privatization process.
However, he felt that the data room should be expanded and the time allowed for review should be
increased to allow better assessment of liabilities, particularly, labor and pensions liabilities.
(b) Operation
138.  CEG operates the two companies under a service contract with RIOGAS. It has been about
one and a half year since the companies have been managed by their private owner. A summary of
performance since 1995 is presented in Table 6B of the main report. During this first year and half,
to address high inefficiency found in the company (many ghosts, staff seconded to the administration
etc...), the concessionaire undertook to substantially improve productivity and reduce commercial
losses, through company restructuring, substitution of part of the personnel, training, and long tern
investments. The number of employees was reduced from 1,157 in 1996 to 512 in 1998, while gas
sold per employee increased from 309 m3 in 1996 to 1,433 m3 in 1998. Total losses were reduced
from 18% and 3% in 1997, respectively for manufactured and natural gas, to 15.4% and 2% for
January and February 1999. Gas losses are due to escapes, frauds and measurement errors. Frauds
are very important in the commercial sector, where they accounted for 46%. From losses of RS 6
million in 1997, the company tumed around in 1998, with net profits of R$80.3 million, exceeding
special provisioning to cover labor to cover, labor and pension liabilities unexpected (R$ 22.1 million
after provisioning).
139.  Commitments under the contract are being implemented: the concessionaire has started the
changes of flow-meters and the conversion of the existing manufactured gas system to natural gas'7.
16 Employees were entitled to buy shares at 30% discount over the minimum price



75                              Annex 3
It was indicated that a problem today is the recent devaluation of the real and the high interest rates,
which affect the viability of the investments.
(c) Exclusivity Provisions in the Contracts
140.  Both contracts provide a complete exclusivity of 10 years, and beyond the first ten years,
procurement from over sources would require users to pay a fee equivalent to the difference between
the maximum tariff for the category and the concessionaires cost of gas from the same source. The
concessionaire considers these exclusivity provisions very important, because it is bound to
PETROBAS through rigid ten-year take-or-pay contracts; the need to reducing risks on substantial
long term investments; and to avoid unfair competition from the monopoly supplier.
(d) Relations with Consumers
141.  PETROBRAS gas prices to the industrial sector were erratic and many times not registered in
formal supply contracts. The concessionaire pretends that in some cases, prices initially paid were
lower than price paid by RIOGAS to PETROBRAS.  To resolve this distorted gas distribution
pricing situation left by PETROBRAS in the industrial sector, RIOGAS increased prices to industry
by 11% average (up to 20% in some cases) in order to bring tariffs more in line with competing uses
(3% sulfur fuel oil ). Although revised prices remained well below the maximum tariff pernitted
under the state tariff law, this was the beginning of conflicts with some of the industrial users who
sought to restore direct access to PETROBRAS and the lowering of tariffs. FIRJAN, the Rio de
Janeiro industry association, took this issue to ASEP to initiate a regulatory process. ASEP,
confirmed that RIOGAS new prices were lower than the maximum prices permitted by the contract
and that the exclusivity provisions were binding. Following this decision, some industrialists
(Companhia Nacional de Alcalis) took the case to the Secretariat of Economic Affairs, where the case
may be instructed for its judgment by CADE, on account of abuse of economic power.
(e) Relations with ASEP
142.  Relations with the government and ASEP are good. However, the concessionaire was
concerned about the weakness of ASEP and about the government actions aiming at dismantling the
Agency, and complained that, for all practical purposes, ASEP decision making power was very
fragile because its decisions could be challenged in any first instance tribunal.
(f) Relations with PETROBRAS
143. The statutes of RIOGAS provided an excessive power of PETROBRAS in the appointment of
the company directors. After difficult negotiations with PETROBRAS, the statutes were amended
consequently.
1 under the contract the concessionaire obligations include the conversion to natural gas of 25% of the existing
manufactured gas system before 48 months from contract signature and 100% before 90 months



Gas Sales, by Category of Consumers
- Consumption in Natural Gas Equivalent
-CEG-
CATEGORIES                         GAS SALES (m3l/year)                            No OF CONSUMERS
Before Privatization          After Privat.    Before Privatization   After Privat.
1995         1996         1997 1/       1998        1995     1996    1997 1/    1998
Residential       79,935,000    83,950,000    76,114,081    79,023371   478,311  474,950  466,880    465,257
Commercial __23,725,000    22,265,000    21,227,582    21,584,001    9,174    9,040    8,420           8,542
Industrial         4,745,000    3,650,000     2,997,558     1,776,403     678      660       537        212
Institutional      4,380,000    4,015,000     3,994,087     3,642,216    1 06      ,028    1,008        992
A ~ ~   ~   ~    __  _ _ _ _                    820 ,1       8 _ _ __,           8
: ~~~~-f,235ow    J6              -    17=  976
Residential       12,410,000      730,000       47,63        58,375                       80,378
____        ____________    .____   __     63, 033    73,206            89,182
Commercial         4,380,000    6,570,000    36,168,758    69,069,667
430     608       557         599
Industr-iai 2/   231,045,000   219,000,000   504,877,430   537,430,637_ ._ __
364     373       237        221
Institutional      1,825,000    2,190,000     1,669,97      1,0,817,216 
___ _     _131                           137       156        159
t 00 00~0- |^i   0 !'4 000'   ; ISOM                                 1  S14
Residential         730,000       730,000       47,312       583,375                       6,202
_           ~~~~~6,495    6,605  ._6,272              
Comriiercial   _._3,232                                       15,2673343 
Industrial          730,000     1,095,O00       909,862  ~1,060,801__11_                       1_ 
Institutional              -                      7,760        5,207        7   -J7            7          7
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.          __ _     __       __                        ___ _                  



CATEGORIES                                      GAS SALES (m3/year)                                             No OF CONSUMERS
Before Privatization                     After Privat.          Before Privatization           After Privat.
1995              1996             1997 1/            1998            1995        1996       1997 1/         1998
TOTAL               1.2,086,000    138,700,000    151%089,2                196,012,382                               804,180
559,309 58,24 _                         571,226
Rsidential              93,075,000        98,915,000         92,111,256        97,041,508                               566460
.__________   547,839   554,761                       560,711
Com rniaf               28,10,0           2037,399,572                        9t0,86 ,935                                  8,981
__tihl                             3;4 4,iw ;9D,42                                                 7;Ca9,607  9,651  9,144
lnduStriall              5'iffsO            4,745,000'        3907,40           28723
__________ __________ __________   __________679                        661          538            213
instiutilonal            41205;(700         6,205,000         5,87104           56,464,715  :1,171
___________       ___________        ___________        an  -  ______     .   1,1 84      1,1721                       1,158
1/ CEG was privatized in July 1997, so results only partly reflect private management.       . 1,7_,5
2/ the significant increase in sales to industrial customers in 1997 resulted in part from the transfer to CEG of a number of large users formerly clients of
PETROBRAS
(with a total monthly consumption of 8 million m3, equivalent to 96 million m3 per year). The decline in numbers of industrial customers is due to re-
dadastering
clients (elimination of multiple meters. clients wrongly categorized,
etc..)__                                                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ __         _  _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _   __ _ _ _   _ _
_    _ _   I _  _  _  _   _  _  _ _  _  _   _  _  _        I  I _ _ _ _  _   f  _ _ _      - I   _   _   _   I  _ _ _ _   _  _  _      _   _  _   _--
-RIOGAS -
CATEGORIES                                              GAS SALES (m3/year)                            No OF CONSUMERS
________________  ___________   ___________                        1997              1998               .                    1997           1998
NATURAL GAS                            .                     312,7102,182    427,0;3.. |
_______________                                                                     -                             12              14
Industrial                                                 312,702,182    427,893,629
12             14
Source: 1995-1996: Biddiing Documens (Editai); 1997-1998: CEG and RIOGAS                                                   _ =_                   _
L.



78                               Annex 3
PERSONNEL
-CEG-
CATEGORIES                                        EMPLOYEES
NAGEMENT  ~                                     48AVOM
,TOTAL                                                1
LOSSES
-CEG-
PRODUCT              1997     1998       JANIFEV-99
MS~~~~~~~~M
Note: losses include physical losses and metering errors.
Source: CEG



79                         Annex 3
CONVERTED MANUFACTURED GAS NETWORK
(SINCE DATE OF CONCESSION - JULY 1997)
LOCAL                                                       REDE
ZONA SUL                                                    7.OO4zn
ZONA NORTE                                                  6.590n
TIJUJCA                                                     2.000m
TOTAL                                                     15.4unm
As of end-February 1999
Source: CEG
GAS NETWORK
-As of Feb. 99-
CEG                                        .  S ,  n
- DISTRIBUTION NETWORK                                   1.931,8 km
- TRANSPORT NETWORK                                       315,7 kin
RIOGAS                                        31 1,2 kmi
- DISTRIBUTION NETWORK                                      6,9 km
- TRANSPORT NETWORK                                       304,3 kmn
Source: CEG



80                               Annex 4
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211-BR)
Annex 4: METRO
New Ownership Structure
144. Auction took place on December 19, 1997 and was won by OPPORTRANS Consortium.
Shareholders of OPPORTRANS are:
*    Sorocaba Empredimentos e Participacoes Ltda         5 00/6
*    Cometrans S.A. (Argentina)                          50%
The concession contract was signed on January 27, 1998 and the operation was transferred to the
concessionaire on April 5, 1998.
Amounts Paid for Concession and Timing of Payments
Minimum Price in Bid            Actual
Documents
- for the concession
Downpayment (30%)                 R$ 7.5 million
- in Privatization            R$ 6.36 million         R$49.7 million
Certificates
- in cash with priority for
the reimbursement of           at least R$1.14 million     R$36.64 million
consultant
Monthly equal lease payments
(70%) from the first month        R$17.5 million
after the Arco Verde and     Assuming 233 months
Pavuna stations are completed  lease payments of R$
and the rolling stock is     865,000, starting October     R$201.7 million
transferred to the last month of 1998
the concession
- for inventories of
consumables in cash               R$3.56 million           R$3.56 million
Total      RS28.56 million          RS291.6 million
Agio: 921%



81                              Annex 4
Investment Commitments of the State
145.  Commitments included:
(i) complete line I extension from Botafogo to Arcoverde stations before May 30, 1998.
(ii) complete line 2 extension from Vicente de Carvalho to Pavuna stations before July 30, 1998.
(iii) increase the number of six-car trains from 15 available in January 30, 1998, to 23 by August 30,
1998, at a rate of two per month in February, March and April and one per month in July and
August.
(iv) increase four-car trains from seven available in January 30, 1998, to 11 by June 30, 1998. Two
trains to be delivered in May and two in June.
(v) increase four-car articulated trains, increasing the number of cars from 14 available in January, to
28 by August 30, 1998, at a delivery rate of two cars per month starting February 1998.
(vi) complete the 96/98 investment program (financed by BNDES) before October 30, 1998,
according to an agreed schedule (Annex 4 to the contract). These investments include expansion
schemes, modernization schemes, central control systems and rehabilitation schemes.
Concessionaire Assessment
(a) The Process
146.  The concessionaire's representative was satisfied overall with the process of concessioning
and the conditions of the contract. The transition and transfer took place in good conditions and
without problems. They felt, however, that the concession contract should have included detailed
technical specification of the Government investment obligations, particularly concerning the new
metro stations which were to be completed and of the type of cars to be delivered.
(b) Relations with the State Government
147.  The concessionaire's representative was not satisfied with the perfonnance of the
government, which had not been meeting its commitments, in particular:
*    the Arcoverde Station (line lextension) was inaugurated on July 5, 1998 and Pavuna
(line 2 extension) in September 1998. While the two extensions are operating since
their inauguration, the concessionaire considers that works in the stations are not
completed, in particular in the new stations of line 2 between Vicente de Carvalho and
Pavuna;
*    the new cars delivered are also considered out of date;
*    the articulated cars delivered are without air conditioning and are not considered
operational;
148.  Consequently, the concessionaire decided not to pay the Government the monthly lease
payment which is due to start the first month after the Arco Verde and Pavuna stations are completed
and the rolling stock is transferred. On December 1st, 1998, the Government initiated a court action
against OPORTRANS to obtain the lease payments due. ASEP was requested to arbitrate, but,



82                              Annex 4
according to the concessionaire's representative it was not able to take a decision, so OPORTRANS
decided to also initiate court proceedings against the state government.
149.  The two sides are interested in resolving this problem, and negotiations have started.
However, the owners remain very worried, in particular by ASEP's weakened performance capacity.
( c) Relations with ASEP
150. The concessionaire was concerned about the weakness of ASEP and about the government
actions aiming at dismantling the Agency (removal of its personnel, plans to substitute ASEP with
other agencies) and complained that, for all practical purposes, there was no regulatory instance to
which to submit claims and resolve conflicts. In any case, ASEP decision making power was very
fragile because its decisions may be challenged in any first instance tribunal. The weakening of the
regulatory framework on the basis of which the concession was established is of great concern to
OPORTRANS shareholders.
(d) Relations with remaining METRO
151.  The concessionaire was left with complete freedom during the transition period between
contract signing and assumption of operations to select the personnel they wished to retain, in
numbers and qualifications, the unwanted balance being retained by METRO. The concessionaire
only retained about 560 of the existing personnel, out of 1400 in the month before concessioning
(OPORTRANS also immediately hired an additional 640 new employees from outside). As a result,
METRO was left with a total of 840 employees. The concessionaire considered that the substitution
of more than half of the personnel was necessary to reduce costs because the advantages received by
the existing employees reached about 189% of their basic salary, including payment of overtime
incorporated in the salary. However, they confirmed that the personnel they retained are excellent
professionals, who joined METRO in the first phase of its construction.
(e) Operations
152.  The concessionaire found the system in worse maintenance conditions that it thought and has
been making intensive efforts since it took over to improve reliability of services and preventive
maintenance which had been deferred for many years.
State Government Assessment
153.  The State Secretary of Transport (Mr. Raul de Bonis) stated that he was not against private
concessioning of urban transport services in general, but considered that the concessioning contract
contains a number of provisions damaging to the government. In particular, he considered excessive:
(i) the unrestricted right of the concessionaire of choosing the personnel in any number after
concessioning and having the state paying for the cost of dismissing or relocating the remaining staff
-- today, the state thus continues to pay about 840 METRO employees; and (ii) Clause 9, para 2, of
the contract, which states that in case of delay in completing project investments under the
responsibility of the State, the lease payments will be delayed until the first day of the month
subsequent to their completion, the lease payments during this delay being definitively lost for the
government. Finally, he also considered that the contract does not give sufficiently detailed technical
specifications of the investments to be implemented and equipment to be delivered by the state.



83                               Annex 4
154.  The Secretary was reluctant to purely and simply dismiss the employees remaining in
METRO, in part because he did not have the resources to do so, and has been looking for possible
reassignments. The technical employees of METRO are considered by the government as good
professionals.
Lessons
155.  These lessons include:
*  The concession contract should include detailed technical specifications for investment
obligations of both the State and concessionaire, to avoid potential disputes.
*  Critical importance of a strong independent regulatory agency with sufficient enforcement
powers;
*  Large premium paid by the concessionaire to win the concession shows that the benefits provided
by the state assuming all unwanted labor liabilities may have been excessive. In future similar
concession contracts, there should be limitations on the numbers or the costs that the state is
willing to absorb, all additional costs to be borne by the concessionaire.
*  The privatization strategy should foresee the immediate extinction of the former company and
should have the associated program of dismissal/transfer or retraining of unwanted staff funded
and implemented as part of the process.



84                                            Annex 4
MAPA DE LOCALIZAsAO DAS ESTA;OES
P~~~~awaaA                                                         00RC  LK D GOVERtMAD0ER
ENV Rubs"; poew     MU~AC  &~
Acodi  Ie ft                                     _
t 9 LG S 0< New
ow"t"~~~WOM
~ C*rvMhod*
Eqenho db     a '                            G a
~~~~~~A~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~A
R>O + h: + ~~~;                                                                       FIme_g
M.A                                                                  "ova'  o
Pm
8onf ta og
Linha 1                                                                           4 1 nS 0 W nhodaR   .  ers wMTOR
F tRR RU }                                    t >- ~~~~MTRORI



85                                            Annex 4
OPPORTRANS CONCESSAO METROVIARIA S.A.
1 -Pavuna and Arcoverde extensions.
Extension from  Botafogo to Cardeal Arcoverde   .....                                                1.63 km;
Extension from  Vicente de Carvalho to Pavuna   ......                                               7.92 km.
2 - Dates when extensions were opened
Cardeal Arcoverde .........................            ................                            03/07/98;
Iraja .........................................                                                    10/09/98;
Acari/Fazenda Botafogo .........................................                                   24/09/98;
Engenheiro Rubens Paiva .........................................                                  24/09198;
Colegio .........................................                                                   30/09/98;
Coelho Neto ............                .............................                              30/09/98.
3 - Kilometers of lines in original system and kilometers added for each
extension
Original system  ...............             ..........................                           25.42 km;
Original system  + Cardeal Arcoverde                   ......................                     27.05 km;
Original system  + Cardeal Arcoverde + Pavuna   .....                                             34.96 km.



DATA                Apr98    May98    Jun98         Ju198    Aug98    Sep98    Oct98    Nov-98    Dec98    Jan-99    Feb99
Kilometers of lines              25.42      25.42     25.42      27.05     34.96      34.96     34.96      34.96     34.96      34.96      34.96
Total number of passengers    5,835,071  7,042,277  6,899,386  8,307,706  7,920,401  9,027,751  9,434,910  9,016,070  9,851,677  8,785,963  8,468,419
Passengers per kilometer         35.52      37.11     35.96      38.79     38.70      34.52     32.63      31.89     33.02      30.68     29.32
Passengers revenues           4,378,306  5,341,594  5,289,069  6,422,457  6,123,281  6,780,536  6,938,794 6,672,951  7,147,513  6,405,086  6,154,353
Number of Trains                    28        28         29        29         35        31         32        33         33         33        33
Number of coaches
* Metro                           128        128       134        134       158        158       162        168       166        166        166
*Articulado                         8          8         8          8         8
Employment total
* From Metro                                 571       571        570       569        569       569        569       569        569        569
* Newly hired                                463       527        517       595        858       869        870       895        870      1,004
Average salary
* From Metro                  1,380.00   1,471.00   1,448.00   1,347.00   1,442.00   1,459.00   1,482.00   1,470.00   1,413.00   1,304.20   1,381.80
* Newly hired                   562.10    744.50    692.00    733.20    716.70    607.20    636.20       643.30    626.40     676.84     603.58
Investments                      -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
Quality indicators
* Frequency of trains
Line 1                      00:04:30   00:04:30   00:04:30   00:04:30   00:04:30   00:04:30   00:04:20   00:04:20   00:04:20   00:04:20   00:04:20
Line 2                      00:06:30   00:06:30   00:06:30   00:06:30   00:06:30   00:07:15   00:07:15   00:06:10   00:06:10   00:06:10   00:06:10
* Travel time
Line 1                      00:24:13   00:24:13   00:24:13   00:28:33   00:28:33   00:28:33   00:27:13   00:27:13   00:27:13   00:27:13   00:27:13
Line 2                      00:26:07   00:26:07   00:26:07   00:26:07   00:26:07   00:40:38   00:40:38   00:33:47   00:33:47   00:33:47   00:33:47
* Confort (air conditioning)               -         -          -         -          -              -          -          -               -
* Number of accidents                                               2                             .
Source: OPPORTANS



87                              Annex 5
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM
PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 4211-BR)
Annex 5: FLUMITRENS
New Ownership Structure
156.  The auction took place on June 15, 1998; the contract was signed September 17, 1998. It was
won by Bolsa 2000 SA (Spain), which taken over on November 1, 1998. The Concessionaire: Rio
Trens Concessionaria de Transporte Ferroviario (Brasilian S.A controlled by Bolsa 2000 SA).
Flumitrensis, operated by Bolsa 2000 Supervia Concessionaria de Transporte Ferroviario S.A.,
created to operate the system.. The shareholders of Supervia are:
Rio Trens Corporation:   82.33%
Bolsa 2000                3.25%
Pactual Electra           0.39%
Mercator                  0.39%
CAF Brasil               13.45%
Apanindeau                0.19%
Amounts Paid for Concession and Timing of Payments
Conditions in Bid      Actual
Documents
Downpayment                          R$8.4 Million          R$8.4 Million
of which:
- in Privatization Certificates    Up to R$5.0 Million    R$5.0 Million
-in cash                           At least R$3.4 Million    R$3.4 Million
Annual Lease Payments (in cash)      240 monthly payments   R$19.6 Million
after 5 years, of
R$81,660 each,
totallingR$19.6 Million
Total Minimum Price                  R$28 Million           RS$28 Million
Cash Payment for inventories of
consumables                          R$8.25 Million         R$8.25 Million



88                             Annex 5
Investment Commitments             None required, but     R$183.5 Million
bidders 9333may
propose to assume state
commitments up to
R$183.5 Million
Contribution to Rehabilitation of Rolling  None required, but  Winner assumed
Stock                              bidders may propose to  state commitments
assume state          after the first 28
commitment to pass-on   months, equivalent
lease payments from   to net present
METRO for that        value of R$59.92
purpose (up to 233    Million.
monthly payments of
R$865,536 each,
totalling R$201 Million
overtime, equivalent to
net present value of
R$81.1 Million)
Total                              R$36.25 Million        R$Million 279.66
Minimum Price         Million
(including inventories)
Agio: 671%
Concessionaire Assessment
(a) The Process
157.  The concessionaire's representatives were satisfied overall with the process of concessioning
and the conditions of the contract. They felt, however, that the state government remained with too
many responsibilities, in particular in the execution of investments and the contracting of loans for
their financing. Ideally, the state should remain only with a supervision and regulatory function.
( b) Relations with the State Government
158.  They were satisfied with the personal relations with the new transport secretary, who had a
good vision for a global transport sector plan integrating the various transport modes, which is
essential to promote the future development of the concession. However, they were not satisfied with
the performance of the Government, which is not meeting any of its commitments, in particular:
*  paying the 1998 13th month salary of ex-FLUMITRENS employees retained by Supervia
(which was advanced by Supervia);
*  transferring lease payments from METRO for rolling stock rehabilitation (these were not
paid by METRO, but the government has the obligation to pay them in case of default by
METRO);



89                              Annex 5
* the Bank loan (Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit Project) which finances critical investments
for the network is still not available (Note: thanks to efforts of the new state government,
the Loan was finally approved by the Senate on March 10, 1999).
* CBTU projects were all delayed due to federal budget cuts.
159. The concessionaire was also concerned with the recent unilateral decision taken by the
Government to reduce fares on a number of inter-urban bus routes (this decision was taken without
consulting ASEP, Supervia nor the bus operators). On some competing routes, this somewhat
decreased ridership for Supervia, while on the feeder routes, it slightly increased it. However,
application of the new fares was suspended by court order a few days later. While the overall impact
is likely to be small (the new bus fares remain significantly above Supervia's fare), there was concern
about the possibility of other such unilateral decisions which could potentially seriously affect
business.
( c) Relations with ASEP
160. The concessionaire was very concerned about the government actions aiming at dismantling
ASEP (removal of its personnel, plans to substitute ASEP with other agencies) and complained that,
for all practical purposes, there was no longer any regulatory instance to which to submit claims and
resolve conflicts. Faced with lack of payments from METRO, Supervia was thus initiating court
proceedings against the state. In any case, ASEP decision making power was very fragile because its
decisions may be challenged in any first instance tribunal. The weakening of the regulatory
framework on the basis of which the concession was established is of great concem to Supervia's
shareholders.
(d) Relations with remaining FL UMITRENS
161.  The concessionaire was left with complete freedom during the transition period between
contract signing and assumption of operations to select the personnel they wished to retain, in
numbers and qualifications, the unwanted balance being assumed by FLUMITRENS.  The
concessionaire only retained about 1,036 of the existing personnel, out of 4,170 in the month before
concessioning (Supervia also immediately hired an additional 1,013 new employees from outside).
As a result, FLUMITRENS was left with a total of 3,134 employees (and about 100 kilometers of
unviable lines which were left out of the concession). The concessionaire considered essential in
securing interest from bidders to have had such possibility to pass-on to the state excessive labor
liabilities. Also, the substitution of about half of the personnel was necessary to reduce costs
and change the work ethics in the company
( e) Role of the World Bank
162.  The concessionaire viewed the Bank's role as critical in ensuring that the new administration
understands the vision that the Bank supported through the State Reform Privatization Loan, and,
through the Mass Transit Project, that state-financed investments are designed, contracted and
implemented to suit service priorities, and, if possible, convince the Government that the
concessionaire should strongly participate in implementing them.



90                              Annex 5
163.  The concessionaire also urged the Bank to press the Government to reinforce and increase the
powers of ASEP, as a strong independent regulator.
( f) Operations
164.  The concessionaire found the system in worse conditions that it thought and is making
intensive efforts to beef up efficiency and productivity, as shown in the table attached. Consequently,
the intensity of traffic increased significantly, but this in turn led to a number of accidents due to the
poor condition of the infrastructure. One of the accidents led to death of one person, due to faulty
signalization system. Priorities of Supervia is currently in training, the establishment of operating
and safety procedures, maintenance and in the reform of the signalization system. Supervia plans to
spend about R$20 million in investments in the coming six months.
State Government Assessment
165.  The State Secretary of Transport (Mr. Raul de Bonis) stated he was not against private
concessioning of urban transport services in general, but considered that the process for
FLUMITRENS was accelerated too much and took place before a backlog of unresolved problems
dating from the transfer of FLUMITRENS from the federal government could be addressed. As a
result, concessioning was possible only by loading the government with excessive labor and other
contractual liabilities resulting from the operation of FLUMITRENS. In particular, he considered
very excessive the unrestricted right of the concessionaire of choosing the personnel in any number
after concessioning and having the state paying for the cost of dismissing or relocating the remaining
staff. Today, the state thus continues to pay about 3,100 FLUMITRENS employees, at a cost of
about R$8 million per month (or R$ 100 million a year if they are not dismissed).
166.  The Secretary was reluctant to dismiss them purely and simply (in part because he did not
have the resources to do so), and is looking for possible reassignment. Options under review were:
(a) control and supervision of the concessionaire, either by ASEP or by a new transport regulatory
agency under consideration-- about 300 staff; (b) rehabilitation and operation of the two stretches
totaling about 100 kilometers of line which were left out of the concession because they were
considered unviable; (c) implementation of the Rio Mass Transit Project; and (d) transfer back to
REFER.
167.  The Secretary also urged the Bank to press the federal government to make available the
funds quickly from the Rio Mass Transit Project, since the entire programming of investments in
1999 depended on the Loan funds and the state would not be able to meet its obligations to Supervia
otherwise.
Lessons
168.  These are:
*    Critical importance of a strong independent regulatory agency with sufficient enforcement
powers;
*    Large premium paid by the concessionaire to win the concession shows that the benefits
provided by the state assuming all unwanted labor liabilities may have been excessive. In



91                              Annex 5
future similar concession contracts, there should be limitations on the numbers or the costs that
the state is willing to absorb, all additional costs to be borne by the concessionaire.
The privatization strategy should foresee the immediate extinction of the former company and
should have the associated program of dismissal/transfer or retraining of unwanted staff funded
and implemented as part of the process. Retaining unwanted staff in the former company has
perverse effects. as it may create within FLUMITRENS a group with vested interests in
securing its own survival and in the failure of the concession. In particular, this could
encourage tendencies to maintain involvement in the details of planning and implementation of
state-financed investments , and to get involved in the supervision of the concession. A plan to
dismiss, retrain or relocate FLUMITRENS personnel should be prepared as soon a possible
(possibly with Bank funding under the Rio Mass Transit Project) to permit the extinction of
FLUMITRENS.



FLUMITRENS                                                    SUPERVIA
1998                                                        1999
_    Jan    Feb     Mar    Apr    May    Jun          Jul     Aug    Sep               Nov       Dec      Jan     Feb
Kilomters of Lines Operated (Km)    264          264     264      264      264    264      264     264      264    264       200      200      200     200
Total Number of Passengers (x IO6)      3.1      2.7      3.3      3.3     3.3    3.3      4.4      4.6      4.0    3.8       4.6      5.0      4.6     4.1
Passengers per Workday (x 103) (1)     139.4    129.6   137.4   140.6   148.2  141.3   173.5   194.1   178.6  175.1   202.4    211.8
Passengers x Kilometer (x 106)         85.28    73.29    89.50    89.85   90.20   89.69   119.79   126.29  122.78  114.01   124.49   137.75   125.75  112.80
Passengers Revenues (X106)              1.78     1.55     1.89     1.89    1.89    2.53    2.64     2.64    2.56    2.38     2.64     2.95     2.68    2.41
Number of Coaches (EMU)                  60       60       47      50       52     63       59      47       53      58       76       82       80      81
Employment Total                                                                                                   4,170    2,049    2,058    2,067   2,064
- From FLUMITRENS                                                                                                 -      1,036    1,033    1,030   1,027
- Newly Hired                                                                                                     -      1,013    1,025    1,037   1,037
Average Salary (Real - R$)                                                                                          1,400    1,173    1,865    1,443   1,355
Investments (US$x103)                  4,160    4,160    4,160    4,160   4,160  4,160   4,280    4,900   5,100   5,900   10,310   12,930   2,660   3,300  %D
__.  .__            __   __                              _                                    _         M_ _    '
Quality Indicators (2)
- Regularity (%)                     57        61      63       63       80     77       81      80       78      75       87       99       99      97
- Timeliness (%)                     60        67      70       70       66     70       70      68       65      60       78       83       78      75
- Confort (air conditioning)   ,               =                 = -                     =        = -                                        =
- Number of Accidents                                                                                                      7        14       15       12
Notes:
1 - paying passengers excludes invasion.
2.- As defined in Annex C 111 of the contract, the indexes of Regularity and Timeliness represent:
Index of Regularity is the % of the total number of cars which composed the trains actually dispatched during the considered period, less the cars which
composed the additional trains dispatched during the same period, over the total number of cars which would compose the trains programmed for the
same period.
Index of Timeliness is the % of the number of trains on time during the period considered, over the actual total number of trains dispatched during the
same period (number of trains programmed, less trains cancelled, plus extra additional trains)
un



93                   Appendix A
APPENDIX A
"BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR"



94                            Appendix A
GOVERNO DO ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO
SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO - SECPLAN
OFiCIO SECPLAN / S NO 220               Rio de Janeiro, 13 de abril de 2000.
Assunto: Relat6rio de Avalia,ao do Programa Estadual de Desestatiza,ao
Senhor Diretor,
Estamos enviando, conforme pedido do BIRD, o relat6rio de avaliac,o do Programa Estadual
de Desestatizacao. Aproveitamos a oportunidade para nos desculparmos pelo atraso, causado pela
necessidade de que as auditorias do projeto fossem concluidas, fornecendo os subsidios para uma
analise mais consubstanciada.
Acreditarnos que, a partir das observac,es realizadas, fique clara a nossa visao do que
significou o Programa Estadual de Desestatiza,co para o Estado do Rio de Janeiro. 0 processo de
reavalia,co ja foi, como se sabe, desencadeado com a instala,co de auditorias para cada um dos
prograrnas envolvidos. Foi com  o intuito de assegurar um carater erninentemente tecnico e isento de
motiva,ces politicas a estas analises que o Governo do Estado optou por contratar a COPPE/ UFRJ,
institui,co de reconhecida competencia, que responde por aproximadamente 70% da producao
tecnico-cientifica do Brasil.
Neste momento, a principal preocupa,co do Governo do Estado consiste na renegocia,co dos
contratos analisados segundo a 6tica do atendimento a popuila,co, seja assegurando um servi,o de
qualidade, ou em rela,co a cobran,a de tarifas m6dicas como devem ser as do servi,o prestado ao
publico do estado.
0 sucesso dessa iniciativa resultara de um processo de negocia,co com os novos acionistas
destas empresas, arduo, mas que acreditamos que possa vir a ser positivo para todos n6s.
Por fim, este relat6rio consiste em uma sintese de nossa visao do Programa, o detalhamento
de cada processo consta nos relat6rios das auditorias, que estao em anexo.
Ilmo. Sr.
Dr. Gobind T. Nankani
Diretor do Banco Mundial no Brasil



95                            Appendix A
GOVERNO DO ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO
SEC RETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO - SEC PLAN
O atual Governo do Estado do Rio de Janeiro considera os resultados do Programa Estadual
de Desestatizac,o, tanto sob a 6tica da solucao da questao fiscal do Estado quanto da qualidade dos
servicos prestados, bastante inferiores ao desejavel.
O Governo anterior, apesar de vender praticamente todo patrim6nio do Estado terrninou seu
mandato com uma divida 225% superior a encontrada. Iniciou-se com uma divida em 1995 de R$ 6,6
bilhoes e terminou em 98 com R$ 21,5 bilhoes ap6s a venda/ concessao de CEG, CERJ, RIOGAS,
FLUMITRENS, METRO, BANERJ e CONERJ, alem de um deficit operacional de R$ 6,3 bilhoes ou
96% de suas receitas.
Uma analise criteriosa deste processo sugere que a melhoria do resultado fiscal do Estado nao
figurou como uma meta clara deste projeto. Caso tenha sido, eis ai a primeira interpreta,co de
fracasso de seus resultados. Segundo o Relat6rio de Avalia,cao apresentado pela Sra. Danielle
Berthelot, "O projeto nao foi realizado com o objetivo de melhorar a situagao fiscal do Estado" e isso
de fato verifica-se nos numneros do Estado.
Por outro lado, nao sao verificadas melhorias na qualidade dos servi,os prestados a popula,co
do Estado, quando nao queda dessa qualidade. Como exemplo, pode-se verificar que o programa de
estadualiza,Ao e concessao de nossa rede ferroviaria, considerado uma padrao pelo BIRD e que, ao
inves de transportar 650 mil passageiros/ dia, como planejado, a seu termino transportava apenas 150
mil passageirosl dia. Distante de nossa concep,co de um projeto bem-sucedido.
Outros exemplos:
Aumento da tarifa do METRO de R$ 0,60 para R$ 1,00, meses antes da privatiza,co, com o
6bvio intuito de valorizar o investimento as custas de uma medida visivelmente danosa para a
popula,ao.
Inexistencia de clausulas nao s6 de adocao de condi,ces especiais para consumidores de baixa
renda como de estabelecimento de metas qualitativas ou quantitativas de universalizac,ao, como na
privatiza,ao da CERJ.
Segundo o relat6rio emitido pelo BIRD: "todas as concessionarias inicialmente priorizaram a
restaura,co de sua sauide financeira, as vezes As expensas da qualidade do servi,o, resultando em
grande insatisfa9ao dos consumidores..." e logo a seguir "isto deve ter ocorrido em fun,co de falta de
conhecimento e sobrecarga de infra-esfrutura".
Nossa avalia,co e de que os verdadeiros beneficiados por este programa foram os investidores
que compraram as empresas e operam as concessoes em questao.



96                            Appendix A
GOVERNO DO ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO
SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO - SECPLAN
Outra questao para n6s extremamente relevante refere-se aos pre,os de venda praticados.
Toma-se impossivel compreender como, com base em avalia,ces de parametros semelhantes, as
consultorias contratadas pelo Estado chegaram a pre,os minimos tao inferiores aos efetivamente
oferecidos pelo mercado?
Apenas como exemplo, o cons6rcio vencedor pagou R$ 291 milhoes pelaconcessao da linha 1
do METRO, enquanto o pre,co minimo estabelecido pelo Governo do Estado foi de R$ 29 milh6es.
Por outro lado, verificamos que o conceito de valor presente foi adotado apenas para trazer os lucros
futuros para o momento da venda. Para a efetiva,ao dos pagamentos, o valor presente a ser pago
pelos investidores foi parcelado algebricamente 240 meses, sem qualquer especie de corre,ao.
Com rela,ao as taxas de desconto praticadas, vale ressaltar o caso da CERJ, cujo valor foi 3
pontos percentuais superior a taxa atribuida A LIGHT, mesmo considerando-se seu puiblico
majoritariamente residencial, fator ampliador de margens. Se a questao referiu-se apenas ao risco
percebido no momento de sua venda, acreditamos que, sendo o mesmo, um momento inadequado ou
restritivo para a ponta vendedora, deveria ter sido concedido um prazo ate que o cenario apresentasse
maior estabilidade. A urgencia da venda tem poucas defesas, principalmente considerando que o
resultado geral nao apresentou impacto positivo nas contas do Estado, unica razao que nos soaria
minimamente justificavel para tal pressa.
Por fim, verificamos aberra,coes, tais como a clausula do contrato de concessao da
SUPERVIA, onde o Estado compromete-se a honrar compromissos de investimentos realizados pelo
Governo Federal, um dos grandes senao o maior responsavel pelo programa de estaduatiza,ao
econcessao de nossa malha ferroviaria.
Do nosso ponto vista, nao verificamos razao para que o govemo anterior tenha concedido a
opera,co do METRO e da FLUMITRENS a OPPORTRANS e a SUPERVIA, respectivamente, e
mantido em sua folha 4mil funcionarios, custando mensalmente RS 8,2 milhoes a seus cofres. Parte
deles foi realocada, parte ainda permanecera nas empresas, mas ha um nuimero enorme de
funcionarios que custara milhoes ao Estado em um Plano de Demissao Voltintaria para o qual foi
realizado um financiamento no governo anterior e que simplesmente nao foi levado a cabo.
No caso do METRO e da CONERJ, o Estado vendeu, junto com a concessao que se conhece,
o direito de explora,ao de linhas que nem sequer existem. Nao existindo, nao ha como se prever seu
potencial de receita, o que nos leva a crer que essas linhas nao foram concedidas, mas sim "dadas"
pelo Govemo do Estado a grupos privados.



97                            Appendix A
GOVERNO DO ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO
SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE PLANEJAMENTO - SECPLAN
Considerando a questao da infra estrutura de regula,co, e preciso ressaltar que empresas como
CERJ, CEG, RIOGAS e o METRO f6ram vendidas/concedidas muito antes da estrutura,ao da ASEP
- Agencia Reguladora de Servi,os Puiblicos, que se deu apenas em dezembro de 1997. Por outro lado,
os indicadores estabelecidos nos contratos e que deveriam ser fiscalizados pela ASEP nao s6
apresentam  um  foco estritamente empresarial (redugao da evasao de receita, aumento de
produtividade e rentabilidade, etc.) como ainda assim foram surpreendentemente mal especificados,
assim como os investimentos a serem realizados pelos novos administradores. 0 pr6prio BIRD, em
seu relat6rio de analise do PED, assume que, em uma pr6xima oportunidade, as obriga,ces de
investimentos deveriam ser melhor estabelecidas.
E o que temos a considerar.
Aproveitamos a oportunidade para renovar protestos de estima e consideracao.
JORGE BITTAR
Secretirio de Estado de Planejamento



98                           Appendix A
GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
STATE SECRETARIAT OF PLANNING - SECPLAN
Memo SECPLAN/S N 220                              Rio de Janeiro, 13 April 2000
Re: Report of the Evaluation of the Rio de Janeiro State Privatization Program (PED)
Mr. Director
As per the IBRD request, please find enclosed the report of the PED evaluation. We would like to
take this opportunity to apologize for the delay in forwarding it, which was secondary to the need to
finish the project audits, which provided the basis for a sounder analysis.
We believe that our comments leave no doubt as to our opinion on the significance of PED for the
State of Rio de Janeiro. As you know, the reassessment process started by the auditing of each
program involved. To ensure a technical analysis, free from political motivations, the State
Government opted for hiring this task out to COPPE/UFRJ, an institution of recognized expertise that
is responsible for approximately 70% of the Brazilian technical-scientific production.
At the present time, the main concern of the State Government is the renegotiation of the contracts
analyzed from the perspective of the provision of services to the population, whether by ensuring
quality services or charging modest fees, the only type which can be accepted for the provision of
services to the state's population.
Success in this endeavor will result from a negotiation process with these companies' shareholders; it
will be not be easy but we are certain it will be worthwhile for all involved.
Finally, we would like to note that this report is a synthesis of our views on PED; details of each
process can be found in the audit reports, which are annexed..
Dr. Gobind Nankani
Director, Word Bank Representation in Brazil



99                           Appendix A
The current Administration of the State of Rio de Janeiro believes that the results of the State
Privatization Program (PED) fall short of the desirable level, both from the perspective of solving the
State's fiscal problem and from the quality of the services delivered.
Although the previous Administration sold practically all the State's assets, the debt at the end of its
term was 225% higher than at the beginning. It started in 1995 with a R$ 6.6 billion debt and finished
in 1998 with R$ 21.5 billion, after the sale or the granting of operation concessions of CEG, CERJ,
RIOGAS, FLUMITRENS, METRO, BANERJ and CONERJ. In addition, it had a R$ 6.3 billion
operational deficit, corresponding to 96% of its revenues.
A sound analysis of this process suggests that improving the State's fiscal results was not a clearly
stated target in this project. If this indeed happened, it is a first interpretation of its poor results.
According to the Evaluation Report submitted by Ms. Danielle Berthelot, "The project was not
carried out with the objective of improving the State's fiscal situation"; indeed this can be seen from
the state's figures.
On the other hand, no improvements in the quality of the services delivered to the State's population
have been observed. At times, there has been even a decrease in quality. As an example, the program
for the splitting up of the federal railway network, devolving the resulting companies to the States
and granting concessions for their operation, considered by the IBRD as a standard, instead of
carrying 650,000 passengers/day by its end, as planned, only transported 150,000. This is very far
from our idea of a successful project.
Other examples:
-  increase of the METRO fares from R$ 0.60 to R$ 1.00 a few months before privatization, with
the obvious aim of increasing the value of the investment at the cost of a measure which was
clearly harmful to the population.
- Absence of clauses not only concerning the adoption of special conditions for low-income
consumers but also establishing quantitative or qualitative targets of universal access, such as in
the privatization of CERJ.
According to the IBRD report, "all concessionaires initially prioritized the restoration of their
financial health, sometimes at the expense of the quality of service, resulting in great consumer
dissatisfaction..." closely followed by "this probably occurred because of lack of knowledge and
overburdening of the infrastructure".
Our assessment is that the real beneficiaries of PED were the investors who purchased the companies
and operate these concessions.
Another extremely relevant issue, in our opinion, concerns the sale prices realized. It is impossible to
understand how, based on assessments of similar parameters, the consultants hired by the State have
arrived at minimum prices so much lower than those actually obtained in the market.
Just as an example, the winning consortium paid R$ 291 million for the concession of METRO's
Line 1, while the minimum price set by the State Government was R$ 29 million. On the other hand,
we have found that the present value concept was adopted only to bring future profits to the time of



100                          Appendix A
sale. For payment purposes, the present value to be paid by the investors was algebraically divided in
240 months, without any type of correction.
Concerning the discount rates practiced, it is worthwhile to highlight the case of CERJ, whose
discount rate was 3 percentile points higher than LIGHT's, even when taking into account its mostly
residential clientele, which is a margin-increasing factor. If the point concerned only the perceived
risk at the time of sale, we believe that since this was an inappropriate or restrictive moment for the
seller there should have been a delay until a higher level of stability in the scenario. There are few
arguments in favor of the urgency of the sale, particularly considering that the overall result has not
shown a positive impact on the State's finances, the sole reason which might have sounded as
minimally justifying such a hurry.
Finally, we have found some aberrations, such as the clause in the SUPERVIA concession contract
by which the State is bound to honor previous investment commitments made by the Federal
Government, one if not the major responsible for the splitting of the railway network program.
From our point of view, we see no reason why the previous Administration granted the operation of
METRO and FLUMITRENS respectively to OPPORTANS and SUPERVIA, and kept 4 thousand
employees in its payroll, with a R$ 8.2 millions monthly cost to the State coffers. Part of them were
reallocated to other jobs, part will continue in the companies, but a huge number of them will cost
millions to the State under a Voluntary Enhanced Exit Program which entailed obtaining a loan,
during the previous Administration, and simply was not carried out.
In the cases of METRO and CONERJ, together with the known concessions, the State sold the right
to explore non-existing lines. Since they don't exist there is no way to foresee their revenue potential,
which leads us to believe that these lines were not granted but rather "given" by the State
Governrment to private groups.
Concerning the issue of regulation infrastructure, it must be highlighted that companies such as
CERJ, CEG, RIOGAS and METRO were sold or their operation concessions granted long before the
creation of ASEP - Agency for the Regulation of Public Services, which only took place in 1997. On
the other hand, the indicators established in the contracts and which should be enforced by ASEP not
only have a strictly business focus (decrease in revenue evasion, increase of productivity and
profitability, etc.) but in addition were surprisingly poorly specified, as were the investments to be
made by the new managers. Even the IRDB, in its PED Analysis Report, surmises that the investment
obligations should be better established in future cases.
Such are our comments.
We would like to take this opportunity to renew our esteem and consideration
(signed)
JORGE BITTAR
State Planning Secretary



10,                 43-                 42~                                                                                                                                                                                                     BD 28032
21       0    STATE CAPITAL                                /         ESPIRITO        2204330    M  I N A S                    G         E R A I s4 '                                                                  230'                                            22803
M UNICIPAL  BOUNDARIES                                 SANTO   21                                                                                                                                           BRAZIL
STATE BOUNDARIES                        /    BP                                     ' <y <,                                                                                RIO    DE   JANEIRO     STATE   REFORM     LOAN
EILMEIE35 '                      4         1 ''. 'f                                                                                                                     RIO  DE JANEIRO  METROPOLITAN  AREA
hMt. I N A S   G E R A I                                                                                                                     5                                                             , j '  CompoSO  I\ ) {\< j GUANABARA BAY BASIN BOUNDARY
MINAS  GERAIS ~~~~~~~~~~C"oSUB-BASIN BOUNDARIES
-02         r    --------  ---  -----                              C~,/ Paiba                                                                                                                                          U     SELECTED EXISTING WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS
22  xolen  =5Tdstio  " |  ., <. . ;~ (,,-z,   )  2  do Sul    3m //--                               /                                           z     SELECTED FUTURE WASTEWATE ER TREATSMENT PLANTS
I     -T I           B,B--                                                                                                                                                                            -       AIRPORTS
j~~    VoIoooo~~~  RIO   O)E IJ ANT        I RO                                                                                                                                                       Z2RIVERS AND STREAMS
'R~, B.- d. PLodi                   6,oo RO-                                                                                                                                                         0      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
IW      -3=L BOP;LI    PeXpaL '    2|3Fhi rfSp   /                                         ,                          oC/       <        Xt                                                                     STATE CAPITAL
PAULO   _           INOI'O l|u,m                                                                                                                                                                                             MUNICIPALITY BOUNDARIES-
I   ~ ~      if~~~/~i~~e                                                                                                                                                                                   RIO DE JANBIRO METROPOLITAN AREA BOUNDJARY
~~.  <~~~~,  R~~~~deiooe,ro~~~~~~~~-'--~~~~~    -                                                                                                       - - - -    STATE BOUNDARIES~~~~~~~~STTEBOUDAIE
< 2 A r E  N r I c  - W X - /? PoTR015 > =-------  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
Esooo 4>                       J           ~~~~~~~A TL A N T I
_____________________________________________________________A___Teres6poIis    --                                                                                                            '7lhe M-tpoIIo- A,-  ~p~d
\    44"00'1    <             '   - -_   ~~~~~ ~~~~~R If0          D E  J A N E I R  0Trspls_t0;                                                                                       OlmncfoiLfudlS
22 30 ---- v ' E                                 do Pi. cd hoei 
Red~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ndo                                                                                                                                                                                    22'35'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(AHOIAs dcX .2:0
_ / ; uq9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E X  S/eMACACUf   ,, R>lR 
U          10          20          30 KILOMT0ERS
-A O .    \     * 'I .--   ~   Cz;5,   < Parac;mb        .1,    CA)IAS          /              '-r
SAO \
PAULO   )50R I 0                                                                                                                                                                                                       Th. b-od-oo,oo-, dP--I,.-oiio,d yA,oIo,,d -y
sho0o 0 U mp d 01 .ipy, 00 IIprIPS ITod Bo-k Woo;
g ft z 00ooeoIoo,Fo OooY. PiOyooIooo
*>                         c 5 ic                /     \IAGA.               &                       o    O G0ff                     C    o    U        /               ITABORAi  '>                                 __________-______2'30'_____
8-it. 1 - -  -  "o' ' 'Ioeoo
A,NARTB x,er0   01                                                                                                                                              M Li A   NA T  f                                     RETN        -               fsnr  c
nk ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~NE6                                                                   10000 tY>0i 0  ,o  o                                   (        ic6
01-J
COO-    EO           ....
d Mooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO~~~                                                                
r RIO'DE JANEIRO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    /00 0/RI RAPER
C                                                                                                                                                                         /10/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0D AER
L     A4 '00'                                                      43.3w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                 450W
JULY 1996



