Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15869-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM--PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
June 6, 1997
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - Real (Rs.$)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Januaiy I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANERJ             Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
Rio de Janeiro State Bank
BBS                Banco Bozano Simonsen
Bozano Simonsen Bank
BCB                Banco Central do Brasil
Central Bank of Brazil
CEDAE              Companhia Estadual de Agua e Esgotos
State Water and Sewerage Company
CEF                Caixa Econ6mica Federal
Federal Savings Bank
CEG                Companhia Estadual do Gas
State Gas Company
CERJ               Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
Rio de Janeiro State Flectric Company
CODERTE            Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodoviario e de Terminais
do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
Road Transport and Terminals Development Company
CONERJ             Companhia de Navega,cao do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
State Navigation Company
CTC/SERVE          Companhia de Transportes Coletivos/Empresa Estadual de Viac5o
Collective Transport Company/State Road Enterprise
FEEMA              Rio State Environmental Control Agency
Fundacdo Estadual de Engenharia do Meio Ambiente
Flumitrens         Companhia Fluminense de Trens Urbanos
Rio de Janeiro Urban Train Company
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
METRO              Companhia do Metropolitano do Rio de Janeiro
Rio de Janeiro Subway Company
PER                Public Expenditure Review
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
(Continued)
PETROBRAS          Petr6leo Brasileiro S.A.
Brazilian Petroleum Company
PIU                 Project Implementation Unit
PSBR               Pubfic Sector Borrowing Requirement
RJMR               Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region
RTCC               Regional Transport Coordination Commission
SECTRAN            State Secretariat of TTansport
SEMA               SecretAria Estadual do Meio Ambiente
State Environmental Secretariat
SOE                Statement of Expenditure
SRPL               State Reform -- Privatization Loan
Vice President    Shahid Javed Burki
Director          Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief    Paul Meo
Task Manager:   Danielle Berthelot



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM -- PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                       State of Rio de Janeiro
Implementing Agency:            State Secretariat of Planning and Control
Poverty:                       Not applicable
Amount:                        US$250 million
Terms:                         Standard amortization and grace periods and fixed
interest rate for US-dollar single currency loans with
an expected disbursement period of 0-3 years.
Commitment Fee:                0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                 See Table 4.2
Net Present Value:             Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:         15869-BR
Map:                           IBRD No. 28032
Project Identification Number:   BR-PE-39197
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
Rio de Janeiro State Reform--Privatization Project
Table of Contents
Page
1. COUNTRY AND STATE BACKGROUND .................................................................1
Country Context .................................................................                                                                                 1
Recent Country  Economic Policies and Developments .................................................................2
2. THE STATE PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM  ....................                                                         .............................................5
A.  PRIVATIZATION/LIQUIDATION  OF STATE BANK (BANERJ) .............................7...............I .                                             .................7
Overview ..........................7.,                                .......7
Reform Strategy ..........................7
B.  PRIVATIZATION  OR CONCESSION  OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES .................................................................8
Progress of Privatization  to Date .................................................................9
Remaining Challenges for the next two years of the Alencar Privatization Program ................................ 11
3. THE PROJECT ................................................................                                                                                      23
A. DESCRIPTION .....23..................                                                                                                                         ... 23
B.  PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REVIEW  ...................... . ..............................................................................   24
C.  LESSONS LEARNED FROM  PREVIOUS BANK/IDA  INVOLVEMENT ...................................................... ... 26
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                         .         ......................................................... 27
E.  ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ............... ....................................................................................................... 27
Environmental Impact Category ..........................                                                                                                        27
Rio 's Environmental Management System .........................................................                                                                27
Environmental Aspects of the Rio de Janeiro  State Privatization  Program  .............................................. 29
F. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORY .........................................................                                                                              30
G.  PARTICIPATORY  APPROACH ...........................                         .......................................................................................... 30
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...........................                                                                                                                 31
A. IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION AND JUSTIFICATION ...................                                                                                                 31
B.  PROGRAM/PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ......................................... .                                                                                  34
C.  PROCUREMENT AND  DISBURSEMENT ........................................................................................................ 36
Disbursement ...........................,.37
D.  ACCOUNTS AND  AUDITS ..........................................................3.....8..................                                                    .... 38
E. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ........................... 39



ii
LIST OF ANNEXES:
A.     State Reform--Privatization Program Letter
B.    Policy Matrix
C.     Lessons Learned and Previous Bank Experience in the Sector
D.    Modernization of Environmental Management
in the State of Rio de Janeiro
Preparation of the proposed project began in October 1995. It was a departmental shared-task, involving all
LAI department's divisions and spearheaded by LAlPS. Specifically, the project team included:
Messrs./Mmes. Danielle Berthelot (Task Manager), Dillinger, Vetter, Hurtado, Burns (LAIPS); Babelon,
Barahona, Moscoso (consultants-LAIPS); Datta (LAICI); Velez, Rebelo (LAIIU); Gwilliam, Thompson
(TWUTD); Von Amsberg (LAIER); Araujo (OPRPR); Hughes (ENVPE); Carvalho (LEGLA); Van Praag
(LOAEL); Jones (LASHD); Darche (consultant-TWUDR); Kane (PSP); Smith, Gray (PSD); and Slough
(FSP). The peer reviewers were Mr. Estache (EDI) and Ms. Lewis (LASHD). The LA lPS Chief was
Mr. Meo. The LAIC1 Unit Chief/Lead Economist was Mr. Kharas. The LAI Director was Mr. Nankani.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE REFORM--PRIVATIZATION
LOAN
1. COUNTRY AND STATE BACKGROUND
Country Context
1.1   Brazil's public sector is highly decentralized. Its government is comprised of the
federal government, 26 state governments, a federal district, and approximately 5,500
local governments or municipalities. Democratization and constitutional revisions in the
1980s increased the degree of resources under sub-national control, and the degree of
local political autonomy in their allocation. Approximately half of budgetary public
expenditures are now made by sub-national governments.
1.2   The performance of state and local governments is a source of concern for both
macro- and microeconomic reasons. The macroeconomic concern arises from state fiscal
behavior. Despite their fundamental importance to macroeconomic policy formulation and
implementation, state governments operate semi-independently of the federal government,
driven by their own tax bases, formula-driven transfers and borrowing. Periodic state
fiscal crises have prompted bailouts or emergency loans from the federal government. The
indebtedness of the Brazilian states has now reached crisis proportions, posing a serious
threat to macroeconomic stability. In addition, losses at state-owned banks pose a threat
to the stability of the financial system.
1.3   From a microeconomic perspective, the concern is with the cost and quality of
services provided by subnational governments. Key infrastructure services, including
power, gas, water supply and sanitation, as well as urban transport, are now provided by
state-run monopolies. Due to overstaffing, weak management and lack of investment, the
coverage and reliability of these services lags behind consumer demand. Subsidies to loss-
making enterprises divert funding from key state social services: education, health, and
public security.



2
Recent Country Economic Policies and Developments
1.4   The most prominent feature of Brazil's recent economic history has been chronic
and rising inflation. Monthly inflation peaks of 80 percent and 50 percent were reached in
1990 and 1994, respectively. Large fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits and an over-extended
public sector were major factors underlying this phenomenon. Inflation at these levels
slowed growth and investment, distorted the pattern of economic activities and
exacerbated the maldistribution of income. Successive stabilization plans were introduced
in the 1980s--most of them with price and wage freeze components--but these were
successful in containing prices only for very limited periods.
1.5   In mid- 1994, as the Minister of Finance in the prior (Itamar Franco)
administration, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso introduced the Real stabilization
plan. This plan included an initial fiscal and wage adjustment, an exchange rate anchor
(modified later in 1995, and made less rigid) and tight monetary policy. The plan has had
remarkable success. Annual inflation fell from 929 percent in 1994 to 22 percent in 1995
and to nine percent in 1996. Inflation in the first two months of 1997 averaged six percent
in annualized terms.The balance of payments also remains manageable. Gross international
reserves stand at US$59 billion (as of January 1997) or nine months of imports of goods
and factor services. This has occurred despite a weakening of the current account deficit
to 3.3 percent of GDP (fourth quarter, 1996). These positive outcomes for inflation and
the balance of payments appear set to continue in the medium term.
1.6   The Real stabilization plan had a major and somewhat unexpected impact on state
finances, and, consequently, on the consolidated finances of the government. A tightening
of monetary policy as part of the plan caused average annual real overnight interest rates
to rise to 25 percent in 1995, before falling to 18 percent in 1996. As much of state debt
was either financed on variable terms (the interest rate on state bonds, for example, was
tied to the federal bond rate) or indexed to interest-rate-sensitive indicators, states
experienced rising costs of debt service and large increases in the size of outstanding
principal. State government debt now totals over US$120 billion (excluding arrears).
Ninety-eight percent of this is owed to federal government and its agents-the Central
Bank, Caixa Econ6mica Federal, and the Banco do Brasil.
1.7   The Real Plan also removed a past mechanism of state internal financial control:
the ability to reduce real salaries and pensions via inflation. As a result, state governments
have found themselves paying unusually high salaries in real terms. By 1996, many states
were undergoing fiscal crises. Even when they deferred paying much of their debt and
began cutting capital outlays drastically, they still had insufficient funds to pay wages.
Table 1.1 gives the consolidated public sector deficit in Brazil during the 1991-96 period,
broken down by level of government. (Given the high level of inflation prevalent prior to
1995, the primary and operational measures of the deficit are more relevant for purposes
of comparison than the nominal deficit-the PSBR). The distinct deterioration of state
and local government finances after 1994 is notable.



3
Table 1.1
Brazil - 1991-1996 Consolidated Public Sector Deficit
(Percent of the GDP)
1991    1992 ]  1993  l 1994     l99     1996
Total nominal PSBR             23.8    44.1       58.4      44.4      7.1      6.1
Federal govemment and BCB      6.6      14.9     20.5      17.4      2.3      2.6
State and local govemments     8.4      16.5     24.6      18.9      3.5      2.8
State enterprises              8.8     12.9      13.3       8.1      1.3      0.6
Total operational               -1.3      2.2     -0.3      -1.3      4.8      3.9
Federal govemment and BCB      -0.3     0.8       0.0      -1.6      1.6      1.7
State and local governments   -1.2      0.8      -0.2       0.6      2.2      1.9
State enterprises              0.1      0.6      -0.0      -0.3      0.9      0.3
Total primary                  -2.6    -2.3       -2.6      -5.2     -0.4      0.1
Federal government and BCB      -0.8    -1.3      -1.4      -3.1     -0.6     -0.4
State and local governments   -1.2      -0.3     -0.5      -0.9      0.2      0.6
State enterprises              -0.7     -3.1     -0.7      -1.2      0.0      -0.1
Source: Central Bank of Brazil and IMF estimates.
Note: "-" indicates surplus.
1.8   In the long run, continuing high fiscal deficits financed by debt are incompatible
with stabilization. As a result, there is pressure to adjust. Since Brazil is fiscally
decentralized and the deficits are greater at the state level, adjustment is required at the
state, as well as the federal, level.
1.9    Efforts to induce adjustment at the state level have not been wholly successful,
however. Constitutional amendments that would allow the state (and federal)
governments to dismiss excess staff and reduce pension benefits were defeated in the 1996
session of Congress. More recent efforts to place the states on a sound financial footing
through comprehensive debt workouts have not lived up to expectations. The federal
government has now signed comprehensive debt agreements with the four largest debtor
states: Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul. In all four states,
the outstanding stock of state bonds is to be refinanced, at six percent real interest, for 30
years. The interest rate in Rio de Janeiro will depend on the ultimate valuation of the
assets transferred by the state to the federal government. If the state assets are equal to
ten percent of the value of the refinanced debt, the interest rate will be 7.5 percent. For
each additional one percentage point of debt coverage, the interest rate will be reduced by
0.15 down to a minimum interest rate of 6 percent. In addition, in Sao Paulo and Rio de
Janeiro, debts to state banks and certain liabilities arising from the states' ownership of
their banks have also been included in the financing package. As the agreements permit
states to capitalize debt service in excess of 13 percent of revenues, the total stock of state
debt will likely grow over the next several years, rather than decline.



4
Bank Strategy
1.10   The Rio de Janeiro SRPL is one of four state reform projects planned for Brazil.
As initially conceived, these projects had two objectives: immediate fiscal adjustment and
longer term structural reform. A crucial element of fiscal adjustment was to be a workout
of the debt owed by the states to the federal government. It was expected that this
workout, combined with tax increases, payroll cuts, and curbs on investment at the state
level, would reduce the states' debt service to an affordable level within two to three
years. As noted above, the debt agreements are unlikely to achieve this target.
1.11  In response, the projects have been restructured. They now consist in carrying out
specific actions linked to the project objective of improving both service delivery through
privatization and the state's fiscal condition. Each project will include a public
expenditure review requirement in the policy matrix, whose details will be spelled out in a
letter of development policy. The first example was the Rio Grande do Sul State Reform
Loan approved by the Board of Executive Directors on March 4, 1997 (Report No. P-
6982-BR).
1.12  However, since the state of Rio de Janeiro was particularly affected by its debt
workout, the project has been further restructured to focus solely on the structural
objective--the privatization or concession of state enterprises. Although its existing debts
were rescheduled, the state was required to assume Rs.$6.3 billion in the liabilities of its
state bank. This doubled the state's stock of debt, and rendered the prospect of fiscal
recovery more remote. As a result, Rio de Janeiro is a particularly clear example of the
change in SRL project objectives. While the state's return to creditworthiness is fairly
distant, its privatization program is particularly comprehensive and well-advanced.
Privatization of its state bank, a source of quasi-fiscal losses in the past, is especially
important.



5
2. THE STATE PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
2.1   Background. The state of Rio de Janeiro is located on the south-east coast of
Brazil, adjacent to the states of Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais and Espirito Santo. The state is
the third largest in terms of population (13.2 million) and tied for second (with Minas
Gerais) in terms of economic size. The population is urbanized, with over 95 percent
living in urban areas. The city of Rio de Janeiro is the second largest population center in
Brazil.
2.2   The city of Rio enjoys a special position in the Brazilian national context. It was
the national capital from the late eighteenth century until the inauguration of Brasilia in
1960. Its growth coincided with the movement of the Portuguese royal court to the city
in 1808, and it enjoyed the status of being the cultural, journalistic, intellectual and
financial center of Brazil for many years, until eclipsed in the second half of this century by
Sao Paulo. In 1974, the state of Guanabara was merged with the former state of Rio de
Janeiro to become the new state of Rio de Janeiro, whose capital is Rio.
2.3   This transfer left the city with an overdimensioned work force at a time of growing
immigration. Slums (favelas) have grown along with more prosperous areas. The tourist
trade has suffered as crime and violence in the city rose, partly linked to a large illegal
trade in drugs. With the international environment conference in 1992 and the
improvement in the crime situation due to firmer security action since 1994, Rio is slowly
recovering its reputation as an attractive, cosmopolitan city. Given the strong association
abroad between Rio and Brazil's image, there are probably considerable externalities in a
recovery of Rio de Janeiro.
2.4   Program Setting. The present administration, which took office on January 1,
1995, inherited a difficult financial situation, with large commitments to personnel, a heavy
debt burden and a major loss-making bank. The state's overextended civil service
consumed 84 percent of state revenues in 1995. State debt, excluding the liabilities of the
state bank, totaled Rs.$7.3 billion, equal to 1.4 times state revenues (all values are
expressed in prices of December 1996). Of this, 70 percent consisted of high-cost state
bonds, which bore a real annual interest rate of 33 percent in 1995. The administration
responded by freezing hiring, cutting investments and taking advantage of the federal
government's willingness to permit interest on state bonds to be capitalized. As a result,
in 1996, the state was successful in holding personnel costs to their 1995 level (as a
percent of revenues) and maintaining investment spending at a minimal seven percent of
revenues. The state's debt stock, however, continued to grow. Due to the capitalization
of unpaid interest on state bonds, new borrowing to finance arrears to personnel, and



6
growth in the stock of arrears themselves, the state's total stock of debt increased to
Rs.$8.3 billion by the end of 1996.
2.5    The state's recent debt agreement with the federal government (whose protocol
was initialed in January 1997) particularly affected its stock of debt and its prospects in
fiscal improvement. Under the agreement, the state's bond debt, along with certain other
existing contractual debts, will be transformed into a 30 year debt to the federal treasury.
As part of the agreement, however, the state is required to acknowledge Rs. $6.3 billion in
liabilities arising from its ownership of the state bank Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
(BANERJ). This will be included in the package of refinanced debt, and will roughly
double the amount of outstanding state contractual and bonded debt. Under the
agreement, the state is required to make an upfront transfer of assets to the federal
government, which will be partly used to reduce the initial stock of debt. The state
estimates the value of assets to be transferred (net of the amount the state can use to
service debt) at Rs. $2.0 billion. Even if this valuation prevails, the state's total debt will
grow to Rs.$13 billion.
2.6    The interest rate on the refinanced debt will range from six percent to 7.5 percent
depending on the ultimate valuation of the assets transferred by the state. Even at 7.5
percent, this represents a substantial drop in the state's average cost of funds. In terms of
its impact on debt service, however, it is not large enough to offset the growth in the stock
of debt due to the incorporation of BANERJ liabilities.
2.7    Debt service on the refinanced debt, along with debt service from earlier
reschedulings, will be subject to a debt service cap of 13 percent of net recurrent revenues.
Due to transitional clauses in the debt agreement, the effective debt ceiling in 1997 will be
about ten percent of revenues, rising to 11.5 percent of revenues in 1998. The stock of
debt is therefore expected to grow, due to the capitalization of debt service above the 13
percent ceiling. At the same time, arrears are expected to increase. Even with the 13
percent ceiling, the state will be required to increase its cash outlays for debt service.
Given the rigidity of its other spending obligations, the state is likely to finance this
through increased arrears.
2.8   In contrast to its difficulties in fiscal adjustment, the state has successfully pursued
an extremely ambitious program of structural reform. Under the program, the state has
already sold the state electricity company, Companhia de Electricidade do Estado do Rio
de Janeiro (CERJ) and its state bank, Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (BANERJ).
Liquidation of the bad part of the state bank is now under way. It will sell the state gas
distribution company, Companhia Estadual do Gas (CEG), in 1997. It will also
concession the state suburban railway company (Flumitrens) and subway system (Metro),
as well as major elements of the state water and sanitation company, Companhia Estadual
de Agua e Esgoto (CEDAE) in early 1998. While aimed partly at the fiscal crisis, these
measures are primarily intended to improve the efficiency of infrastructure services in the
state, and end the state's fiscal exposure to BANERJ's losses. As a group, these measures
constitute the most ambitious and most advanced state privatization program in Brazil.



7
2.9   Major Components. The state privatization program which is detailed in
Governor Alencar' s State Privatization Program Letter (Annex A) includes two
components:
A.    Privatization/Liquidation of the State Bank (BANERJ)
B.    Privatization or Concession of Public Enterprises
A. PRIVATIZATION/LIQUIDATION OF STATE BANK (BANERJ)
Overview
2.10  Background. The present Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (BANERJ) was
created in November 1976, by merging the Banco do Estado da Guanabara (BEG) with
the previous Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro. Currently, BANERJ's issued share
capital is Rs.$158 million--57.3 percent in voting shares and 42.7 percent in non-voting
preferred shares. The main shareholders are the state of Rio de Janeiro--with 80.3 percent
of the voting shares and 68.7 percent of the preferred shares, and the bank's pension fund
(PREVI-BANERJ)--with 13 percent of the voting shares and 26.8 percent of the preferred
shares. The remaining capital is in the hands of many small private shareholders (6.7
percent of total capital). BANERJ's shares are formally quoted on the Rio stock
exchange, but trading activity is limited. At the end of 1995, BANERJ had 11,500
employees in a network of 19 regional offices supervising 218 branches, to which
reported 104 sub-branches and 322 other sales outlets. The bank' s network essentially
covers the states of Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais and Sao Paulo. BANERJ has a network
of 70 branches (the largest of any bank ) in the city of Rio de Janeiro alone.
2.11  The bank, which had been in a weak financial condition since the early 1990s,
began incurring substantial operating losses after the introduction of the Real plan in 1994.
The bank' s net worth declined from Rs.$124 million at the end of 1993, to a negative
Rs.$1.03 billion at the end of 1994. To remedy the situation, the incoming Alencar
government requested the central bank to maintain BANERJ under a special temporary
administration regime during the whole year of 1995. However, the bank's financial
condition continued to deteriorate. By mid-1995, its net worth had exceeded a negative
Rs.$1.35 billion. To prevent further deterioration, in October 1995, the Alencar
government and the central bank mutually agreed to look for a private bank to manage
BANERJ and prepare it for privatization (or liquidation). The tender for the management
and privatization contract was won by the private investment bank Banco Bozano
Simonsen (BBS) in December 1995.
Reform Strategy
2.12  Acting on the recommendation of BBS, the state decided to privatize BANERJ.
To prepare it for sale, the state divided the bank's existing assets and liabilities,
transferring about 70 percent of the liabilities and about 35 percent of the assets to the
state treasury. As shown in Table 2.1, the transferred liabilities consisted of liabilities to



8
the central bank (Rs.$3,400 million), pension liabilities (Rs.$2,000 million) and up to
Rs.$900 million in potential liabilities to other creditors. Under the terms of the debt
agreement, the federal government agreed to refinance this debt, at between six percent
and 7.5 percent real interest for 30 years, subject to the overall debt ceiling of 13 percent.
The assets transferred total Rs.$1.7 billion, and include the bank's bond portfolio, its
claims against the federal government, and the state's own contractual debt to BANERJ.
The state intends to use these assets, plus the proceeds from the sale of the BANERJ
itself, to satisfy the asset-transfer requirements of its debt agreement with the federal
government.
Table 2.1: Balance Sheet of BANERJ as of December 1996
Assets                      Rs.$Mn    Liabilities                  Rs.$Mn
Loan to RJ state*                435  Liabilities to Central Bank**  3,400
Federal privatization bonds*     314  Pension liabilities"           2,000
Bond portfolio*                  852  Potential legal claims**         900
Claims against federal gov't*    165  Deposits, interbank liabilities  2,790
Other assets                    3,000  Equity                        -4,324
Total                           4,766  Total                         4,766
* assets to be transferred to federal treasury ** liabilities to be transferred to state
treasury
2.13   The above operations have left the new BANERJ SA with the balance sheet shown
in Table 2.2. Although the book value of the new bank will be Rs. $210 million, the state
expects to sell it for at least Rs.$300 million. Following a stage of pre-qualification of
buyers in November 1996, the sale of BANERJ SA was originally scheduled for
December 17, 1996 but was delayed temporarily by court injunctions. Most legal
impediments to the sale of the bank were cleared by early 1997 and the bank was publicly
advertised for sale in early June 1997.
Table 2.2: Balance sheet of BANERJ SA
Assets             Rs.$Mn    Liabilities and equity        Rs.$Mn
loans and fixed    3,000      Deposits, interbank liabilities   2,790
_ equity (book value)         210
total              3,000      total                        3,000
B. PRIVATIZATION OR CONCESSION OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
2.14   Starting in early 1995, the government has been radically redefining the role of the
state in the provision of urban transport and utility services, relying increasingly on private
firms to provide such services. When Governor Alencar presented his privatization,
concession and new regulatory program to the Rio State Assembly in November 1995,
more than two-thirds of the legislators gave him support--an indication of a strong public
dissatisfaction with current state transport and utility services and a clear signal for drastic
changes in their provision.



9
2.15  Governor Alencar inherited a state dominating the urban transport sector, through
its ownership of the suburban rail system (Flumitrens), the subway (Metro), the ferry
company (CONERJ), two bus companies (CTC and SERVE) and a company which
operates terminals and parking garages (CODERTE). In addition, the state owned the
dominant water/sanitation and gas companies (CEDAE and CEG, respectively) and a
power company (CERJ) with a 21 percent share of the market. Subsidies to the transport
companies were massive--estimated in 1995 at US$363 million or 10 percent of state
revenues. While operating subsidies to the public utilities were minor, these companies
had difficulties expanding coverage due to a shortage of internal financing.
Progress of Privatization to Date
2.16  Thus far, progress in the implementation of the state's privatization and concession
program has been impressive, due to the strong determination of the Governor's team of
senior officials--who were already with Mr. Alencar during his two mandates as mayor of
Rio de Janeiro. Another key to this success has been the strong legal support provided by
a November 1995, general law to privatize or concession public enterprises and to
mandate the establishment of a new regulatory entity for the concession of public services.
Without it, the legal challenges that some of the government privatization steps have so far
encountered at the state level--particularly to sell the state bank BANERJ--might have
been difficult to overcome.
2.17  Specifically, concessioning of Flumitrens' and Metro's transport operations and
maintenance services is now in its final phase of preparation. Studies of concessioning
models, which were financed by the federal government, have now been completed and
reviewed. The government hired a financial advisors' consortium in January 1997, to
draft the concession bidding documents for Flumitrens and Metro and promote them with
potential investors. The privatization/ concession (and, in one instance, liquidation) of the
ferry company CONERJ, of the bus company CTC/SERVE and of the road terminal's
operator CODERTE are all underway. Staff reduction programs have already been
initiated by the government in all transport companies; further steps will be left to the
private groups taking over the companies (or by the state, in case CODERTE is
liquidated). Actual concessioning (and/or sale or liquidation) of all state transport services
is expected in early 1998.
2.18  The sale of the electricity company CERJ, in November 1996, was a coup for the
state government and its aggressive privatization program. A consortium of Chile's
Chilectra, Spain's Endesa and Portugal's EDP bought the state's 70.3 percent stake in
CERJ for Rs.$605 million, 30 percent above the minimum price the government had
established. CERJ is the smaller, and less attractive, of the two electricity companies
operating in the state of Rio de Janeiro. While the state capital is served by Light Servicos
de Electricidade S.A.--which was sold by the federal government in May 1996, to a
consortium led by Electricite de France--CERJ's 4.2 million customers are scattered
throughout 57 cities in the state's interior. Nevertheless, the high premium was a result of
a sealed-bid auction--a first for the state, which will continue using this type of auction for



10
the rest of its privatization/concession program--and an aggressive three-continent
roadshow. The government is now readying the sale of its gas company, CEG, scheduled
in 1997.
2.19  The concession of water and sanitation services and reform of the state company
CEDAE is a complex part of the government privatization/concession program because it
involves not only the state's municipalities (which are the conceding authorities) but also
CEDAE's inefficient but highly unionized labor force. Based on a study financed by the
federal government and completed in 1996, the conceptual approach to the concessioning
model as well as strategies for the entire water and sanitation sector have now been fully
debated by all levels of state government and a final model and strategy agreed upon. On
this basis, a financial consortium is preparing the bidding documents for the concession of
the metropolitan region's water and sanitation system, except for the concession of Barra
da Tijuca and Jacarepagua whose bidding documents have already been issued. Another
challenging element of the reform of the state's water and sanitation system is the
establishment of cross-sectoral mechanisms to determine acceptable environmental targets
for water and sanitation services. The government--in particular the Vice Governor--has
been actively working on this aspect of the reform which is essentially a coordination
mechanism between environmental and sectoral agencies.
2.20  Finally, to facilitate and regulate public services, in November 1996, the
government submitted to the state Assembly a detailed regulatory bill specifying the
objectives, responsibilities and organizational arrangements of a single agency with
responsibility for all public services within the competence of the state. This Public
Services Regulatory Commission will help the state deal with the challenges of tariffs and
contractual adaptation. The regulatory bill was submitted in response to the mandate
given by the State Assembly in November 1995, to establish a new regulatory framework
concurrently with the privatization and concession of public services. Preparation of the
law was the object of numerous workshops within the government and of active
discussions by the Assembly. The bill was approved on January 15, 1997, and ratified by
the Governor on February 13, 1997. The five Directors of the Commission and key
personnel will be appointed before the sale of the gas company, based on professional
qualifications. They will enjoy protection from arbitrary removal during their fixed (and
staggered) terms. As per the January 1997, regulatory law, the appointment of the five
Directors must be endorsed by the State Assembly.
2.21   The regulatory law directs the government to make the regulatory commission a
small, strong and professional unit that fosters the development of the requisite technical
expertise and enjoys a high degree of insulation from day-to-day political pressures. The
agency will operate in a transparent manner and be funded from levies on regulated firms
(not fines, to avoid conflict of interest). The government has already arranged external
assistance to support the regulatory agency's first steps, including training and other start-
up costs, until the agency is able to collect sufficient revenues from levies on regulated
firms. The agency's detailed responsibilities may vary from sector to sector, and will be
defined through concession agreements, possibly augmented by sector-specific decrees. In
sectors such as water and gas, it is envisaged that core responsibilities will include



11
administering tariff adjustment rules and supervising concessionaires' compliance with
regulatory norms. Relationships between this agency, state secretaries and responsible
environmental and other authorities is being very carefully defined, and appropriate
mechanisms put in place to ensure effective coordination. The Commission will supervise
concession contracts since, in most sectors, the government intends to rely primarily on
concession agreements (which it will grant in accordance with the Federal Concessions
Law) as the principal regulatory instrument.
Remaining Challenges for the next two years of the Alencar Privatization Program
2.22 Challenges for the New Regulatory Commission. Effectively bringing the
regulatory commission to life will be a challenge for the Secretariat of Planning and the
Privatization Commission which must overcome the resistance of existing sectoral
agencies and government organizations internal to the state. In addition, they must
operate within the limits and/or uncertainties imposed by Brazil's federal system, which
either limits the state regulatory authority or leaves it vague. Regulation of state public
services is further complicated by two main factors. First, tariffs for most public services
tend to be politically determined. This can create temptations for the state government to
renege on commitments given to private investors by determining tariffs by reference to
short-term political considerations. This concern is not a hypothetical one in Rio; in the
past, policies of this kind led to the insolvency of private concessionaires operating public
services, requiring the government to take over the services in question. Second, the large
size and immovable nature of many investments in these public service sectors mean that
long-term contracts are often required. This requires the elaboration of a framework that
allows regulatory arrangements to be adjusted to meet unforeseen changes while providing
appropriate safeguards for private investors. Finally, the long-term nature of private
infrastructure arrangements places a premium on particular privatization and related
proposals being developed in the context of well-considered market structures and related
sector strategies. The government is aware that it will have to strike a balance between
short-term goals of revenue maximization and longer-term objectives of developing more
competitive and efficient industry structures. However, how it will be done in practice is
part of the state's regulatory challenge.
2.23   Challenges for Privatization of Urban Transport Services. A substantial
improvement in urban transport services as well as their orderly development and long-
term sustainability in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan region (RJMR) require resolution of
three main issues: i) regulatory and transport planning issues; (ii) subsidies; and (iii)
private sector participation in investment and operations.
2.24   On regulations and transport planning, the lack of coordination between the
federal, state and municipal levels of government responsible for urban and metropolitan
transport--which is particularly critical between the state and the municipal levels--has led
to poor tariff and modal integration; lack of prioritization in urban transport investments;
and the absence of a common policy on transport pricing and subsidies. Also, the
metropolitan region needs to modernize its traffic engineering and control technology to



12
be able to cope with the present and growing number of road-based vehicles. In
particular, it urgently needs to introduce policies aimed at discouraging the rapidly
growing use of private vehicles for home-to-work trips, for example, congestion pricing.
Congestion is indeed of high public concern. About three quarters of the population of
the state of Rio de Janeiro is concentrated in the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region,
which covers only 15 percent of the state's area--9.8 million inhabitants on 546,865
hectares. This population is spread irregularly over 17 individual municipalities which are
dominated by the Rio de Janeiro municipality. With 5.7 million inhabitants, the Rio de
Janeiro municipality alone has 56 percent of the state population, generates about 85
percent of state income (77 percent of metropolitan region's income) and provides
4,500,000 jobs. Demand for urban transport services is thus highly concentrated in the
Rio de Janeiro metropolitan region and, in particular, in the municipality of Rio de Janeiro.
Hence, resolving the congestion problem of the metropolitan region and implementing an
air quality program for vehicle-based emissions is a challenge that the state of Rio must
address in coordination with municipalities.
2.25  In general, regulatory responsibilities for urban transport within a municipality fall
under the mayor's jurisdiction while that for metropolitan transport--defined as urban
transport involving in most cases more than one municipality--are under the state
governor's jurisdiction. In Rio's case, urban transport within the Rio municipality falls
under the jurisdiction of the municipal secretariat of transport which mainly oversees buses
(all private) and traffic management. Metropolitan transport in the RJMR falls under the
jurisdiction of the state secretariat of transport (SECTRAN with 57 employees) which
oversees five state-owned enterprises as follows: (i) Flumitrens (a 260-km suburban rail
system with 5,396 employees); (ii) Metro (a 23-km subway system with 2,565
employees); (iii) CTC/SERVE (bus with 370 employees); (iv) CONERJ (ferries with 722
employees); and (v) CODERTE (terminals with 521 employees). Since the beginning of
project preparation in October 1995, the state has substantially reduced the staff of
Flumitrens by about 2,500 employees; Metro by 700 employees; CTC/SERVE by 2,000
employees; CONERJ by 400 employees; and CODERTE 200 employees.
2.26 One of the government's challenges is to clearly define the allocation of
responsibilities (and resulting organizational changes) between each of the urban transport
agencies, SECTRAN and the state's Public Services Regulatory Commission before
granting transport service concessions to the private sector. One particularly important
interaction to carefully promote is with the Regional Transport Coordination Commission
which the state established in December 1996, to act as an advisory and consensus-
enabling body in the following instances: (i) policy coordinator between the federal, state
and municipal governments involved in passenger transport; (ii) adviser to the state Public
Service Regulatory Commission on regional transport services in general, and in
particular, on all urban transport tariff and subsidy policies in the RJMR; (iii) promoter of
integrated multimodal fares; and (iv) forum to discuss and prioritize the main investments
in Rio's metropolitan region on the basis of economic efficiency and financial
sustainability. It will include members of the state transport secretariat, Rio's municipal
transport secretariat, other municipalities of Rio's metropolitan region, and operators and
users.



13
2.27   The government will need to keep on reducing the high amount of annual
subsidies paid by the state to urban transport agencies by a combination of restructuring,
sales and concessions to the private sector. At the end of 1995, SECTRAN and its
transport companies had a total staff of about 15,900 (compared to about 9,600 at
present) and received subsidies totaling about Rs.$363 million or 10 percent of state
revenues. In 1995, Flumitrens and Metro jointly accounted for Rs.$300 million in
subsidies. The government's objective by 1998 is to stop subsidizing CONERJ and
CTC/SERVE transport agencies', and to significantly reduce the subsidy to the Metro and
Flumitrens to less than Rs.$ 100 million. Although the joint subsidy level was already
down to Rs.$170 million in 1996, a further reduction to Rs.$100 million will not be an
easy task.
2.28  By seeking private sector participation, the state's main objective is to improve
service to users of transport services (particular by rail-based transport) through efficient
management of operations and investments. While staff downsizing through voluntary
and involuntary dismissals has so far allowed the state to significantly reduce staff in all
urban transport agencies, further downsizing is expected from private buyers or
concessionaires. Studies to define the concession models for Metro and Flumitrens were
completed in 1996 and the services of a financial advisors' consortium to prepare and
promote both concessions were contracted in January 1997. For the Metro, the state has
used as a comparator the Santiago, Chile subway, which has approximately the same
length, almost twice as many passengers, the same average tariff and an operating surplus.
However, three options for concession are under consideration. The target date for
starting concessions for the Metro is January 1998. Through a BNDES loan of US$220
million, the Metro is completing works required to increase its route length in order to
double its ridership, prior to the private concessionaires' entry in 1998.
2.29   Option One. Separate Transactions. The government would completely separate
the two transactions -- current Metro system with committed additions separated from the
new extension to Barra da Tijuca. There would be bids on the operation and capital
(mostly rehabilitation) required for the current system with committed additions. The low
bidder for the Net Present Value (NPV) of operating assistance (if needed) plus capital of
the current system would be selected. In a separate transaction, the government would
ask for bids on operating subsidy (if needed) plus capital contribution from government
for the extension, and award this contract to the lowest NPV of capital contribution plus
operating assistance. If no bids are received for the extension which fall within the
maximum contribution limits, then the project would fail.
2.30   The advantage of option one is that it would certainly get the current Metro
system through the concessioning, and it would do so without presenting the risk that the
extension will not receive acceptable offers. The disadvantage is that the bidders for
With the exception of CTC, all bus services are provided by private operators at one of the country's
lowest fares and without subsidies.



14
operating the current system are likely to be small, bus-owned companies and there would
be limited interest from the bigger companies except, possibly, in the extension.
2.31   Option Two: Extension as an Option. The government would offer the operation
of the current Metro system on a firm concession basis, plus it would grant a three-year
exclusive option to the winning bidder to complete award of the extension to Barra da
Tijuca, if the concessionaire can develop an extension proposal within the capital
contribution limitation stated in advance. This would have the advantage that it would still
get the current system into concession without being totally tied to the extension, and it
would bring in much bigger bidders (and probably drive out the smaller ones on their
own). Disadvantage is that the govemment would not necessarily get the lowest price on
the extension, but the offer it did get (if any) would be based on cost estimates that were
not rushed to be completed within the concessioning schedule.
2.32 Option Three: Both Concession of current Metro System and Extension in one
Package. The government would offer BOTH the operating and capital requirements for
the current Metro system (with committed additions) PLUS completion and operation of
the extension to Barra da Tijuca to the bidder who offered the lowest price including
operating assistance for both current system and extension, capital for current system, and
cost of construction of the extension (so long as it falls within the limitation of, say,
US$300 million plus operating assistance and capital for the current system). In this way,
the government would get the most bidder interest, and would get the best committed
price for all of the work. The risks are: a) both parts rise or fall together; b) the capital
cost for the extension would only be based on rough engineering estimates based on the
costing of a basic extension project done by the Metro engineering team before issuing the
bidding documents for the Metro concession; and c) the government will be committed to
the extension and will no doubt have to pay substantial penalties if the money cannot be
found within the time stated in the concession contract.
2.33   Clearly, the first option is the safest and has the most certain outcome. The second
option might be a good balance between getting something going now and perhaps
costing the government a little more money in future. The third option might get the best
price, but the government would need to be certain of having money available to live up to
its commitments.
2.34 For Flumitrens, the comparator and model for concession is the Buenos Aires
suburban rail system which is now operated by private concessionaires and has a
productivity three times higher than Flumitrens. The suburban rail lines of the Buenos
Aires system are presently operated under 1 0-year concessions by private operators, which
receive pre-agreed annual subsidies and will execute a government-financed investment
plan. The subsidies are designed to end after a number of years, at which time the
concessionaire pays an annual fee to the government. As part of the concession for
Flumitrens, which is scheduled to start in January 1998, the private concessionaire will
execute a US$272-million investment program which will be supported by a Bank-
proposed Rio de Janeiro Mass Transit Project. Before the concession, the state intends to
launch a US$100-million rehabilitation program for Flumitrens of which the Bank



15
proposes to finance US$50 million under the proposed Rio Mass Transit Project. There
are no resettlement issues in Flumitrens and Metro right-of-ways which might create
problems for a potential private concessionaire.
2.35   The state has decided to sell the assets of theferry boat company CONERJ to the
highest bidder and have its ferry lines in the Guanabara and Sepetiba bays operated by the
private sector before the end of 1997. The liquidation of the assets and liabilities of the
two bus companies CTC and SERVE is underway and should be completed by early 1998.
Finally, CODERTE--the state agency in charge of the operation and development of the
state 's terminals and parking garages--will either be sold, liquidated, concessioned or
transferred to municipalities by 1998. The state has undertaken to determine the value of
CODERTE's assets and to obtain all the legal titles of the properties.
2.36  Challenges for the Privatization of Energy Services: Power and Gas. State
concession of electricity distribution was made difficult by the uncertainty of the federal
regulatory framework, which has been under revision since the beginning of the Cardoso
Government in 1995. For the same reason, state concession of gas distribution this year
will be complex. Energy policies as well as sector management and regulations for the
whole country are carried out by the federal government. The Ministry of Energy and
Mines formulates the country's energy policy, enforces and coordinates its execution,
supervises and controls the development of oil, gas, nuclear and hydraulic and other
energy resources and monitors all activities relating to the energy sector. The ministry
also manages the sector through three departments: the national water and electrical
energy department, which regulates the power sector; the national fuels department, which
regulates petroleum, gas, coal and alcohol sectors; and the national energy development
department, which is in charge of planning the energy sector as a whole and of developing
non-conventional forms of energy. The ministry also oversees and controls two major
operating companies in the energy sector: Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. (PETROBRAS) for oil
and gas, and Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS) for electricity.
2.37  New regulatory frameworks, currently under preparation at the federal level, are
going to play a very important role in the development of the energy sector because the
federal and state governments are now opening the sector to concessions to the private
sector. New federal concession laws (Law 8987 of February 1995, and Law 9074 of July
1995) permit the private sector to operate certain public services which until now had
been generally operated by publicly owned entities. In the energy sector, the concession
laws apply to the operation of dams, locks, reservoirs and irrigation works as well as to
electricity services. Gas distribution has recently been eliminated from the state
companies' monopoly; states continue to have monopoly power on gas distribution but
can now grant concessions to private companies. However, federal regulatory legislation
has not yet been enacted, making state issuance of new regulatory legislation for private
concessions complex.
2.38  Electricity Services. In the absence of a clear federal regulatory framework, the
state's strategy to attract the maximum number of potential buyers for its electricity
distribution company, Companhia de Eletricidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (CERJ),



16
was to agree upon a draft concession contract with the federal government in advance of
the public offer, and to include it in the bidding documents. This strategy, added to an
aggressive promotion of the company (road shows in particular) and CERJ's good tariff
margin (US$46/MWh) and absence of financial debt, contributed to the successful sale in
November 1996 of 70.3 percent of CERJ's shares to a consortium led by Chile's Chilectra
for Rs.$605 million, or 30 percent above the minimum price fixed by the state. The
balance of the shares is owned by the federal government.
2.39  The Chilean-led consortium is already working on reducing costs and losses--the
latter can easily be reduced from 27 percent to 13 percent through mere commercial
actions. It also announced investments of US$300 to US$500 million over the next few
years, to fully exploit the concession to service about 75 percent of the state area and
supply 21 percent of the state's electricity requirement. The state capital as well as the
most populated and developed area of the state (about 25 percent of the state area and 79
percent of the state's electricity supply), are supplied by LIGHT--a utility company which
the federal government sold to a consortium led by Electricite de France in May 1996.
CERJ has an installed capacity of only 66 MW (in nine hydroplants). In 1994, it generated
271 GWh (representing only four percent of its requirements) and purchased 6,387 GWh
(from Itaipu and Furnas) totaling 6,658 GWh of generation requirements. CERJ has
traditionally been poorly managed. Before its sale, it was overstaffed--6,000 employees,
70 percent of them older than 40 years--and had high operational costs. The average
monthly personnel expense per employee was US$1,600.
2.40  Gas Services. The state is preparing to privatize the gas company Companhia
Estadual de Gas do Rio de Janeiro (CEG) and its subsidiary, RIOGAS. CEG has a state-
wide distribution concession. The Rio government owns 65.4 percent of CEG's shares;
the federal government, 34.6 percent; and Rio's municipality, 0.04 percent. CEG is a very
old company which was previously owned by a Canadian firm, Societe Anonyme du Gaz.
Although it covers an attractive distribution area where the use of gas is very popular and
margins are good, CEG has not been able to modernize its production installations--which
include five manufacturing plants--or its two distribution systems (high losses of about 17
percent). The company also lacks modern management capacity. Presently, CEG has
about 1,157 employees, total assets of Rs.$207 million and no financial debts. However,
CEG owes Rs.$30 million to PETROBRAS for unpaid purchased gas, and has a Rs.$l 1
million liability with its employees' pension fund.
2.41  Due to the ambiguity of the state's old gas regulatory framework, the federally
owned petroleum conglomerate, PETROBRAS, sells gas directly to some big consumers
in the state. Following a recent agreement between CEG and PETROBRAS, a second
company, RIOGAS, was created as a joint venture between CEG (51 percent),
PETROBRAS (16.3 percent), and two private investors (16.3 percent each).
Consequently, some consumers will be transferred from PETROBRAS to CEG in the Rio
de Janeiro metropolitan area and from PETROBRAS and/or CEG to RIOGAS in the
interior of the state, particularly the Paraiba valley. Furthermore, the state is now
developing a new state gas regulatory framework to permit private gas distribution. The
government hired consultants to assist in the preparation of a draft concession contract to



17
privatize CEG's gas distribution in 1997 and to have a new regulatory framework for
private gas distribution ready. The government expects that modernization of the whole
gas distribution system--through privatization and extension of natural gas from Bolivia to
the whole system--will permit elimination of CEG's five manufacturing plants, bringing
greater safety and reducing staff.
2.42  Challenges for the Privatization of Water And Sanitation Services. Together
with the privatization of the state bank, this is probably the most challenging, innovative
and risky part of the government privatization program. The water and sanitation sector
of the state of Rio de Janeiro faces the typical problems of a poorly run public sector.
However, the state strategy to seek private sector participation to solve these problems
requires the consensus of the state's municipalities, because the power to grant
concessions for water and sanitation services is theirs.
2.43  CEDAE. The sector is dominated by a state enterprise, the Companhia Estadual
de Aguas e Esgotos (CEDAE)--an enterprise with low levels of efficiency, poor quality of
service and poor financial condition, in spite of the fact that it serves a good market. The
state has the second largest population density in Brazil (296,150 inhabitants per kM2),
almost equal to the population density of Brasilia (301,175 inhabitants per kmi2) and
substantially larger than that of Sao Paulo (130,611 inhabitants per km2). CEDAE
provides water services in 63 of the 81 state municipalities (78 percent) and covers an area
that houses 13.4 million people or 87 percent of the state's total population. CEDAE's
coverage of water and sewerage is low by international and domestic standards: 81.5
percent in water and 45.2 percent in sewerage. There are more than 2.2 million people
without water services and more than 6.3 million without sewerage connections in
CEDAE's territory. It also has extremely high water losses: about 50 percent. The
company's problems are also compounded by very low levels of metering: only 30
percent.
2.44 CEDAE's poor financial condition is explained by high labor costs--a result of low
productivity (7.5 employees for every 1000 water connections) and high salaries and other
benefits (US$45,150/employee/year). 57 percent of CEDAE's billing, 71 percent of
collected revenues, is devoted to covering personnel costs--10,726 permanent staff Every
year, under a collective agreement with employees, CEDAE transfers an amount equal to
about 11 percent of the total payroll to its employees' retirement fund. During the 1986-
1995 decade, the state treasury transferred US$278.9 million to the company. CEDAE's
financial prospects are particularly worrisome because the company is responsible for
about 90 percent of the total costs of the Guanabara Bay Basic Sanitation Program
(US$793 million). CEDAE is committed to repay about US$586.7 million of the loans
contracted to provide sanitation services in Guanabara Bay (US$292.5 from the Inter-
American Development Bank-IDB and US$294.2 million from Japan's Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund-OECF), plus interest charges and a large part of the
counterpart funds.
2.45 Reform Model and Strategy. Following the completion and discussion of
federally financed studies, a reform model and strategy was adopted by the government.



18
It calls for (i) splitting up the state water and sanitation company CEDAE; (ii) granting
private concessions to provide water distribution and sanitation services both in the
metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro and in other parts of the state, (iii) setting up a joint
venture to control the operations of the Guandu treatment plant; (iv) decentralizing the
remaining operations of CEDAE that provide water services in various medium and small
municipalities; and (v) establishing a regulatory framework to supervise the quality and
prices of water and sanitation services provided by the various operators.
2.46  Specifically, the model implies that the Guandu system will be covered by four
water distribution and sanitation concessions. They will correspond to CEDAE's current
management and provision of water and sanitation services in the North-West, South, and
Western sections of the metropolitan region of Rio de Janeiro, which draw upon water
supplied from the large water treatment plant at Guandu. The four concessions are as
follows: (i) Baixada Fluminense and liha do Governador; (ii) Barra da
Tijuca/Jacarepagua/Recreio dos Bandeirantes covering the western parts of the
municipality of Rio de Janeiro (whose concession was tendered in December 1996); (iii)
Centro Sul covering the remainder of the municipality of Rio de Janeiro; and (iv) Zona
Oeste covering the western areas of the metropolitan region that fall into the Sepetiba Bay
water basin. In addition, another concession will be offered for the separate Imunana-
Laranjal system which serves the East and North-East sector of the metropolis, drawing
upon water from a number of treatment plants. Other concessions are being or may be
offered outside the metropolitan area.
2.47  The model further assumes that the Guandu water treatment plant will be
controlled by a joint venture that will be formed by the four companies operating water
distribution and sanitation concessions within the Guandu system and by the state
government. The state may retain a 33 percent share in the joint venture, while the
concessionaires may each have an equal share in the joint venture. Major decisions would
be made by a supermajority of at least 75 percent of the shares. Responsibility for
operating the plant, including regular investments in the renewal and replacement of
equipment, would be contracted out to a private operator which may not have any links to
the water distribution and sanitation companies.
2.48  A financial advisor will assist the government in the bidding process for the
Baixada-Ilha do Governador, Centro Sul, Zona Oeste, and Imunana-Laranjal concessions.
The key steps, as currently defined, are the circulation of draft concession documents and
organization of a consultative forum for potential investors in mid- 1997 and submission of
documents for prequalification and publication of final bidding documents in the second
half of 1997.
2.49  Since the concession process for Barra da Tijuca and Jacarepagua has already been
initiated, the financial adviser will have to suggest any modifications to the draft
concession contract that might be necessary to ensure consistency between the provisions
for this concession and for the other concessions to be awarded later in 1997. In
particular, issues of regulations, appeals, the transfer price for bulk water supplies, and the
lease payment will need to be examined.



19
2.50   Service Targets. Specific, dated targets for the expansion of service coverage in
each of the concession areas will be established. For instance, each concessionaire may be
required to ensure that at least 95 percent of the households in their area have access to
individual water connections by 2005. Targets for the expansion of sewer networks will
need to be more differentiated since current levels of coverage vary so greatly across
areas, but in general all concessions may be expected to achieve 90 percent coverage
within 20 years. The concessionaires may be required to ensure that all sewage that is
collected receives at least primary treatment with chemical removal of phosphorus by the
year 2002. Secondary treatment will not be required prior to 2015.
2.51   Assets. In transferring the concessions, the state will assign all of the existing
water distribution and sanitation assets to the new concessionaires plus the assets being
constructed (such as those under the IDB/OECF project). The secretary of public works
will continue to be responsible for managing the implementation of this project. The
length of the concessions will be 30 years. If a concessionaire is unsuccessful in retaining
its concessions after a new round of bidding, they will be compensated by the new
concessionaire for the unamortized element of capital investments made within the last 15
years of the concession.
2.52   Tariffs. Initially, a common structure of tariffs for residential, commercial and
small industrial consumers of water and sanitation services will be established to cover the
four concessions. This will be based on the rate levels and tariff structure included in the
concession documents for Barra da Tijuca/Jacarepagua/Recreio dos Bandeirantes, but may
include rebalancing adjustments or overall increases/decreases in order to ensure the
economic viability of the concessions. A regulatory process will be established to ensure
that material changes in service obligations, environmental standards, or other factors are
reflected in the level and structure of tariffs and all rate levels will be subject to a full
review at intervals of five years. The monetary value of tariffs will be adjusted at regular
intervals in line with inflation.
2.53   A bulk water tariff will be established for water leaving the Guandu treatment
plant. The Zona Oeste concession will pay the operator of the treatment plant for all
water that enters its transmission pipelines. The other concessions will pay a bulk water
price to the Zona Oeste concession for the quantities of water that they take equal to the
Guandu bulk water price plus a transmission charge per cubic meter. Similarly, a transfer
price will be established for sewage that is transferred between concessions. These prices
will be adjusted at regular intervals in line with inflation.
2.54   The concessionaires will be required to publish their own structures of tariffs as the
basis for charging high/large consumers, that is, establishments which consume more than,
for instance, 120 cubic meters of water per month.
2.55 Regulatory framework. The Public Services Regulatory Commission will be
responsible for overseeing the performance of the water and sanitation concessions as well
as for reviewing tariffs and service obligations. Successful bidders for concessions will be



20
required to post substantial performance bonds which may be partially or wholly forfeited
if they fail to meet their contractual obligations.
2.56 Labor. Workers directly assigned to the divisions of CEDAE which are
responsible for the operation and maintenance of water and sanitation services will be
transferred to the new concessions. The basis of this transfer will depend upon legal
advice, but it is envisaged that transferred workers will be guaranteed the continuance of
their existing terms and conditions of employment for a period of two years. Similar
arrangements will apply to workers directly employed in the division responsible for the
Guandu water treatment plant.
2.57  Bidding process. After draft concession documents have been prepared, the
financial adviser will organize a consultative forum to give interested parties the
opportunity to learn about the systems that will be offered for concession and to solicit
their views about the proposed contract provisions.
2.58  Interested parties will be required to prequalify prior to submitting concession bids.
The prequalification process will focus on the financial capacity of the potential bidder or
consortium and on their technical capacity to operate, extend, and maintain large water
distribution and sanitation systems. After prequalification, potential bidders will be offered
the opportunity to carry out due diligence investigations to prepare their bids.
2.59   Qualified bidders will be permitted to submit bids for more than one concession.
However, no bidder may be awarded more than one concession and there will be
restrictions to ensure that companies for consortia may not have shareholdings exceeding
15 percent in more than one of the five water distribution and sanitation concessions in the
metropolitan region.
2.60   Concession bids will be based on the annual lease payment offered for the
operation of the concession. The state may choose to require that the successful bidders
for certain concessions - in particular, Centro Sul - make initial lump sum payments on
the award of the concessions to a fund that will be used to cover the liabilities of CEDAE.
In addition, the state may establish minimum lease payments required for some or all of
the concessions.
2.61  It is envisaged that bids for the different concessions will be opened in the
following order: (i) Centro Sul; (ii) Imunana-Laranjal; (iii) Baixada-Ilha do Govemador;
and (iv) Zona Oeste. If a qualified bidder submits bids for more than one concession and
is successful in one of the early rounds, their bid(s) for later concessions will not be
opened. Similarly, the successful bidder for concession of Barra da TijucaIJacarepaguaI
Recreio dos Banderantes will not be eligible to participate in the other four concessions.
2.62 Non-metropolitan services. The division of CEDAE responsible for providing
water and sanitation services outside the metropolitan region will be split off from
CEDAE and established as a separate company. After consultations with individual
municipalities or groups of municipalities, separate concessions may be offered for some



21
areas along the lines already adopted for the Regiao dos Lagos, or municipalities may
decide to take on the responsibility for operating their local system(s). The remainder of
the company will then be transferred to a private concession operator. Since it is possible
that this concession will not be economically viable at a reasonable level of tariffs, it is
proposed that some or all of the payments made by the metropolitan and other
concessions created out of CEDAE will be held in an escrow account to provide the
equivalent of an annual lump-sum subsidy for the residual concession as well as for other
purposes.
2.63   The remainder of CEDAE. After separating the divisions of CEDAE which are
directly responsible for the operation of water supply and sanitation services in various
parts of the state, it is estimated that the remainder of the company will have about 5,000
employees. This will be closed and the employment of its workers terminated. A fund
will be established to handle the liabilities and compensation payments associated with
closure, drawing upon any lump sum contract payments made by the successful
concession bidders and - if necessary - debts secured by the lease payments for the
concession.
2.64  The financial adviser will design a compensation scheme for workers whose
employment is terminated and to assess any other liabilities associated with closure of the
company. A sum of at least Rs.$500 million will be available to cover these costs, but it is
recognized that the total sum required may be larger. However, it is expected that the
average compensation payment will not exceed 3-4 times the average annual wage of
CEDAE employees, so that the total compensation and liability fund should not exceed
Rs.$1 billion.
2.65  CEDAE debts. After assessing the total debts of CEDAE, the financial adviser
will make recommendations about how the debts should be dealt with. The options that
have been considered by the state are: (i) transfer the responsibility of servicing CEDAE's
debts to the state (since most of them have state guarantees), with payments being made
from the escrow account referred to above; or (ii) divide some or all of the debts between
some of the new metropolitan concessions, with a corresponding reduction in annual lease
payments.
2.66 Reform's environmental impact andfuture environmental sector regulations.
Recent regulatory experience with water systems such as Buenos Aires' and England and
Wales' has shown that changing the environmental regulations has created instability in the
implementation of private concession contracts. Contract clauses particularly vulnerable
to change are the speed at which the concessionaire has to comply with targets for
sewerage coverage and treatment. Therefore, it is of critical importance that a consistent
set of environmental targets and obligations for the utilities be developed early in the
concession process through a coordinated mechanism between the water and sanitation
sector, on the one hand, and the environment sector, on the other hand, so that potential
implications of alternative options for investment requirements, tariffs, and environmental
quality can be fully assessed by future concessionaires (see details in Annex D).



22
2.67 River basin management agencies will eventually take over the responsibility for
achieving environmental targets set at federal or state level. These agencies will have the
power to levy charges and fines from users, including water and sewerage companies, in
order to meet the targets at least cost. They will include the main users of every river
basin, and hence concessionaires will be key players both in terms of water abstraction and
wastewater discharges. The discretion of water basin agencies will be offset by the fact
that the decision-making powers will be with the users of the basins. If the agencies do
not operate as planned, then penalty mechanisms are envisaged where state or federal
entities will act to impose charges on all parties in a uniform fashion.
2.68   As part of its work on a new reform model for the water and sanitation sector, the
government is developing a mechanism for coordinating the economic and environmental
regulation of water and sewerage operators. Specific wastewater treatment targets and
the mechanism for coordinating economic and environmental regulation will be reflected in
the water and sanitation concession contracts. These contracts will provide for a
transition from a rigid regime with fixed targets, for instance in the first few years of the
contracts, to the general environmental management regime, making the utilities part of
the overall system of water basin management and subject to its rules and charges.
2.69   All facilities to be privatized will be subject to an environmental audit for
compliance with applicable regulations, which will determine measures required before the
concessioning or potential obligations to be included in the concession contracts.
Depending on the type of facilities to be privatized, audits will include water quality and
sampling methods, wastewater discharges, and disposal of solid waste from wastewater
treatment plants.



23
3. THE PROJECT
A. DESCRIPTION
3.1    Objective. The project's main objective is to support the state's privatization and
concession program, i.e., to yield a state government that is more efficient in the delivery
of urban transport and utility services. Specifically, during project preparation, the
objectives have been to improve the quality of the design of the state's privatization and
concession program and assist in implementation, which is now well underway. The
project will help ensure that implementation is completed as planned through
conditionality, and will finance three time-slices of the reform costs of the program.
3.2   Project Activities. The project consists of the carrying out of activities linked to
the project objectives described above. These activities essentially comprise a subproject
to help meet the incremental cost of reform of the suburban train system (Flumitrens) on a
declining basis. Reform costs include the salaries of Flumitrens' employees that the state
had to begin paying in 1996, after the federal government transferred the system to the
state, and costs of maintaining the concession to the private group that will take over
Flumitrens in 1998. The project may also include the restructuring of any state
enterprises, provided that the Bank approve the separation program for the staff of such
enterprises. Part of the subproject costs will be met by a loan of US$250 rnillion. The
loan will disburse against three time-slice project costs of respectively US$125 million,
US$75 million and US$50 million or a total of US$250 million. The first time-slice
disbursement of US$125 million would be released promptly after loan effectiveness, since
actions required for disbursement, and in particular the sale of the state bank BANERJ,
and state electricity company CERJ have been implemented prior to Board presentation.
The time-slice disbursement of US$75 million--planned between January and June 1998--
would be released following a positive review of all remaining privatization actions except
those related to water and sanitation concessions. The disbursement of US$50 million
would be released upon completion of the water and sanitation reforms. The latter two
disbursements would be subject to the finding that public expenditures and fiscal
performance in 1997 were consistent with the capital spending program and fiscal
indicators cited in the Governor's privatization program letter.
3.3    Key Actions. The policy matrix in Annex B sets forth the actions (with a
completion timetable) that have to be taken prior to the release of the last two time-slice
disbursements. They include (i) privatization of BANERJ SA and of BANERJ Insurance
SA as well as liquidation of Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro SA and of its pension
fund; (ii) establishment of a new regulatory framework for the private provision of public



24
services; (iii) concession of the services of Rio's main urban transport agencies and
divestiture of their non-operational assets; (iv) privatization of the energy companies--the
electricity company CERJ and the gas company CEG; and (v) concession of water and
sanitation services; and (vi) satisfactory review of the 1997 fiscal performance.
B. PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REVIEW
3.4    The project will also monitor the state's investment program and fiscal
performance during the disbursement period. This is not designed to induce improvement
in the state's fiscal situation. As noted earlier, the inability of the federal-state debt
negotiations to produce a sustainable workout2 renders the objective of state fiscal
recovery temporarily moot. The intent of fiscal monitoring is merely to permit the Bank
to halt disbursements of project funds in the event that the state engages in reckless fiscal
behavior.
3.5    Two sets of fiscal indicators will be monitored. The first is the size and quality of
the state's investment program. Here, the intent is to enable the Bank to halt
disbursements if the state undertakes major capital works whose lack of economic or
social justification violates the overall objectives of the project. To implement this
condition, the state and the Bank have reached agreement on a list of major investments to
be undertaken during 1997, and the proportions of those projects that will be financed
from debt and from the state's own resources. The list of major projects and their
financing sources is shown in the table below. The state's compliance with this program
will be a condition of disbursement for the time slice of January-June 1998 and for the
time slice related to the water and sanitation reforms.
Table 3.1 Program of Major Investments, 1997  3.6    The second set of fiscal indicators
(Rs.$ Million of Jan 1, 1997    financing    refers to the state's overall fiscal
loan  state    performance. While little improvement in the
METRO                           220     - state's fiscal situation is expected, this
BAIA GUANABARA                  234    24  provision will permit the Bank to halt
BAIXADA VIVA                     60     6  pision  i           the  Bank to  alt
PET (Mass transit)              51    51  disbursements if the state engages in actions
Prosanear, Promoradia,           38     -that result in substantial fiscal deterioration.
Other major investments               100  To implement this provision, the Bank and
Total                           603   181  the government have agreed on a "most
likely" fiscal prognosis for the state, based on
a detailed examination of the factors that will affect each of the major items of receipts and
expenditures: GDP growth, tax effort, the number and salaries of personnel, investment
spending, and likely receipts from privatization and new borrowing. These have been
incorporated into a detailed fiscal projection for 1997. To facilitate supervision, the Bank
and the government have agreed to use two summary indicators as measures of fiscal
2   As seen in Table 3.2, due to the model design, the debt:revenue ratio for 1996 already reflects the
state-federal govermnents debt deal concluded on January 15, 1997 (i.e., the 1996 debt:revenue ratio
is calculated as the stock of debt as of December 31, 1996, divided by revenues in 1996.



25
performance: the operational surplus (deficit)3 as a percent of revenue, and the ratio of
the stock of debt4 to revenue. Based on fairly optimistic assumptions--e.g., that (a) GDP
will grow 4 percent; (b) tax effort will increase 3 percent; (c) total personnel costs will
drop three percent; and (d) investment spending will be largely limited to the major
projects cited in table 3.1--the target for the operational deficit in 1997 was fixed at 35
percent of net revenues. The target for the debt stock:revenue measure was fixed at
2.85:1
3.7    To place these results in perspective, the fiscal projection was extended through
the year 2002. As shown in Table 3.2, the fiscal outlook for the state is unpromising.
While the state would achieve a primary surplus in 1999, debt service on contractual debt
would remain high--at about 25 percent of revenues. As a result, the operational deficit
would decline only slowly, reaching - 12 percent of revenues in 2002. As much of state's
debt service would be deferred under the debt service ceiling, the resulting accumulation
of deferred interest would slow the rate of decline in the stock of contractual debt. In
2002, the stock of contractual debt would be 224 percent of net revenues.
3.8    Arrears are also expected to grow. The combination of stubbornly high personnel
costs and undeferrable debt service produced a cash flow deficit equal to five percent of
revenues in 1996. Projected growth in investment spending in 1997 and 1998 will widen
the gap. The accumulation of arrears (including the capitalization of interest on arrears) is
projected to produce a total debt stock equal to 291 percent of revenue in 2002.
3.9   It should be emphasized that projections for the outer years are extremely
speculative. It is particularly likely that the state will be forced to find a means to balance
receipts and expenditures well before 2002, either through cuts in personnel costs,
increases in tax revenues, or further adjustments in debt service obligations to the federal
government. The feasibility of such tactics will depend upon changes in the Federal
Constitution which are still under debate.
3   The operational surplus (deficit) is defined as net current revenues, less the sum of (a) accrued
interest obligations (including deferred interest), (b) other recurrent expenditures, and (c) capital
expenditures, excluding amortization but including capital works financed from privatization or
borrowing.
4   Debt includes contractual debt (including debt refinanced under the recent debt agreement) and any
net increase in arrears from January 1, 1996. Debt is measured as at December 31, 1997.



26
Table 3.2 Fiscal Indicators
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   20001 2001   2002
Rio de Janeiro                            I
Growth of revenue                       8%     7%     2%     7%     7%    7%      7%
Personnel as % revenue         84%    85%    77%    74%    79%    78%   75%    72%
Capital spending as % revenue   6%     9%    19%    17%      3%     5%    5%      5%
Debt service on contractual debt  28%    26%    27%    26%    25%    24%   23%    22%
of which financed by capitalization    23%    17%    12%    10%    9%  8%    7%  6%
Total debt service as % revenue  28%    26%    28%    27%    26%    26%   26%    26%
Primary deficit as % revenue   -1 %*   -8%I -10%    -5%      4%     3%    6%      9%
Operational deficit as % revenue  -28%   -30%   -32%   -27%   -18%   -19%  -16%   -12%
Unfunded cash flow deficit (arrears)   -3%    -5%    -7%   -12%   -14%   -16%  -13%   -11%
Stock of debt (EOY) as % revenue    144%   271%   282%   304%   304%   303%  299%   291%
Stock of contractual debt     144%   266%   270%   280%   267%   253%  239%   224%
3.10   Compliance with the 1997 monitoring indicators will be reviewed prior to the
disbursement of the January-June 1998 time-slice or of the water and sanitation time-
slice, whichever comes first. If the state's fiscal performance proves to be substantially
worse than projected, the Bank would have the option of suspending the time slice until or
unless satisfactory remedial actions were undertaken. In order to provide some flexibility
in the implementation of these conditions, specific investment program and fiscal targets
have been incorporated in the state privatization program letter. The policy matrix
requires, as a condition for disbursement of the January-June 1998, time-slice and the
water and sanitation reform time-slice, that the state's investment program and fiscal
performance be consistent with the program stated in the privatization program letter.
C. LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK/IDA INVOLVEMENT
3.11    The Bank has extensive experience in the reform of the public sector through
structural adjustment loans and sectoral adjustment loans and with subnational
development projects in Brazil, Argentina and in other countries. Key lessons (detailed in
Annex C) are as follows. First, projects must focus on a few significant reforms that are
hard to reverse--such as privatization of public enterprises and banks, and reforms passed
via legislation--and can be fully implemented during the mandate of the administration in
power. Second, project design and implementation arrangements must be flexible enough
to fully achieve targeted reform objectives. Third, reform projects for subnational
governments can place very high (sometimes unsustainable) supervision costs on Bank
staff. Thus, project implementation should rely as much as possible on the private sector
for auditing and procurement review. Finally, the initiative to reform should be entirely
the state government's. The Bank can provide financial and technical support, but should
never set the basic policy objectives. These lessons have been incorporated into the design
of the proposed loan.



27
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
3.12   The proposed SRPL includes reforms that are difficult to reverse, such as the
privatization of the state bank BANERJ and of the electricity and gas distribution state
enterprises, as well as the granting of private concessions for the provision of public urban
transport and water and sanitation services. However, the establishment of a transparent
and fair regulatory framework for the private provision of public services with
undoubtedly take time, since it represents a radical change in the way the state government
has so far extended its urban transport and utilities services to the public. Also, the state's
regulatory framework will require constant adjustments to make it compatible with the
framework the federal government is slowly developing. If any federal regulatory
development were to cast uncertainty on existing state regulatory arrangements, already
agreed concession contracts may become unstable and lead to renegotiations costly to the
state.
3.13  Furthermore, the state's privatization program continues to frustrate many vested
interests--especially that of unions whose opposition has been fueled by downsizing and
enterprise sales. It is also clear that the opposition of political constituencies, whose
interests are increasingly being affected by the sale and/or concessions of specific sale
enterprises, has been mounting as the state privatization program enters in its final phase
of implementation. Governor Alencar has so far been able to secure wide support from
the public and the state assembly for his state privatization program, in particular, through
repeated legal challenges to the sale of BANERJ SA, which had to be postponed twice in
1996 to lift court injunctions. It appears that he will be able to maintain public support
because it appears there is now a need for change deeply rooted in the public
consciousness.
E. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Environmental Impact Category
3.14   The proposed project would finance reforms that would have neutral or beneficial
environmental impacts, and has been classified as Category B regarding its environmental
impacts.
Rio's Environmental Management System
3.15  In parallel with the preparation of the proposed project, the Bank has been actively
involved in helping the government improve its environmental management system5,
because of the close linkage between improved environmental management and the reform
of the water and sanitation sector undertaken under the SRPL. Thus, the project will not
only contain safeguards against possible negative environmental impacts of the project
s  Bank sector work is reported in Brazil: Managing Environmental Pollution in the State of Rio de
Janeiro, Bank Report No. 15488-BR, (August 22, 1996).



28
components, but also actively contribute to improved environmental management by the
state.
3.16  Over the last 20 years, Rio's environmental management system has often served
as a model for the entire country. However, over the last eight years, the Funda,co
Estadual de Engenharia do Meio Ambiente (FEEMA)--the main state environmental
agency--underwent a drastic decline caused by poor political support, very limited
budgets, and weak strategic direction. As a result of this decline, environmental
management has become trapped in a cycle of limited effectiveness and limited resources
and authorities. Now, FEEMA is no longer effective in fulfilling some of its basic
functions such as systematic monitoring of emissions and ambient quality as well as spot-
checks and site visits with polluters.
3.17  The state has recognized the serious problems of its environmental management
system and decided to make improved environmental management a priority area. As a
result, it has defined steps toward the modernization of the sector--which are detailed in
Annex D--within its overall privatization program. In summary, the state has embarked on
an ambitious reform program that includes the following elements:
(a)   the establishment of accountability of environmental agencies through
transparent target setting, explicit performance targets, and a restructuring
of environmental agencies;
(b)   a reform of the staffing and budgeting system;
(c)   a modernization of the instruments of environmental management toward
the increased use of economic measures; and
(d)   the integration of environmental objectives into the restructuring and
privatization of state enterprises under the state privatization program.
3.18  Accountability. Accountability of the environmental management system will be
improved through the development of a state environmental action plan (SEAP), which
will establish environmental targets in a transparent and participatory cross-sectoral
process. Performance targets for environmental agencies will be derived from SEAP. The
government intends to complete the development of the SEAP by early 1998. The
government will restructure the environmental agencies within the state environment
secretariat (SEMA) to improve accountability, focusing on: (i) a clarification of the
agencies' responsibilities; and (ii) decentralization of tasks to local governments or self-
administering systems, such as water basin agencies, and the private sector. The plan for
the first phase of restructuring is expected to be implemented by mid-1997.
3.19  Staffing and Budgeting. The environmental agencies are paralyzed by an
excessive number of poorly paid and unmotivated staff as well as by serious budget
rigidities. The pay for professional staff is not competitive, as well as unequal and
unresponsive to performance. Within the overall context of the civil service reform and



29
within the limitation of legal restrictions and budget constraints, the state privatization
program will address these problems through a package of measures that would include:
(a) a significant reduction in the number of staff; (b) the raising of salaries of qualified
remaining and new professional staff to more competitive levels; (c) the introduction of
pay equity and performance incentives; and (d) assurance of timely budget availability. An
action plan to include these four components is being prepared by SEMA and is expected
to be implemented in the context of the state overall administration reform.
3.20 Instrument Modernization. The thorough modernization of environmental
management instruments will focus on economic instruments to replace, or amend, step by
step, existing administrative instruments and complex licensing procedures. The
introduction of a comprehensive system of water basin management is the key element of
these reforms. Plans for the introduction of this system are well advanced. A bill will be
presented to the state assembly during 1997. One of the main features of the bill will be
an effluent discharge fee and the right for the state to impose a penalty on users if a water
basin agency has not been formed or has not produced an acceptable pollution
management plan within a specified time period. These mechanisms will create efficient
economic incentives for pollution reduction and prevent a perverse incentive against the
formation of water basin agencies if discharge fees were only levied within such systems.
The discharge fee will be phased in gradually over a period of several years.
Environmental Aspects of the Rio de Janeiro State Privatization Program
3.21   SEMA and the environmental agencies are actively involved in an analysis of the
potential environmental effects of all aspects of the state privatization program. As an
example, environmental audits were undertaken before the privatization of the energy
companies (CERJ and CEG). Similarly, environmental audits will be conducted for
companies to be concessioned or privatized in the future. The environmental audits will
identify environmental problems associated with past and current time practices and
provide solutions to mitigate these problems along with estimated costs and schedule.
3.22  Water and Sanitation Sector. One of the reasons for considering increased
private sector participation in the water and sanitation sector is the need to generate the
financing needed to expand basic sanitation services and associated wastewater treatment.
The reforms have, thus, a significant positive environmental effect, and if properly
designed, can contribute greatly to improved environmental management in the state. It is
of critical importance that a consistent set of environmental targets and obligations for the
restructured utilities be developed early in the process through a coordinated mechanism
between the water and sanitation sector, on the one hand, and the environment sector on
the other. In this way, the potential implications of alternative options for investment
requirements, tariffs, and environmental quality can be assessed by all interested parties.
3.23   Transport Sector. The state privatization program includes the sale of an
extremely small share of the city's total bus fleet. All buses to be sold will be required to
have a certificate of compliance with environmental regulations prior to and at the point of
sale. For ferry boats, Flumitrens, and Metro facilities, an inspection for compliance with



30
environmental and safety regulations will be carried out prior to inviting the concession
bids--it is part of the mandate of the financial advisors' consortium in charge of preparing
and promoting the Flumitrens and Metro concessions.
F. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORY
3.24  The primary objective category of the project is "private sector development" (PV)
as the project focuses on the privatization of key state enterprises of Rio de Janeiro's
public sector and on increased private participation in the provision of public services.
G. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
3.25  The government of Rio de Janeiro has been actively debating its state privatization
program on television and in various public fora, particularly in November 1995, when the
privatization bill was being discussed by the state assembly and the Governor was seeking,
and obtained, an overall privatization mandate. In mid-November 1995, an independent
(IBOPE) poll showed that two thirds of the state population were in favor of the
government's privatization program. This level of public support to reform as well as its
approval by 70 percent of the state assembly not only reflect the political commitment of
the state government towards privatization, but also the perception by the state legislators
of the public's desire for drastic change in the availability and quality of public services.
Since then, the Rio government has been debating and intends to continue debating the
major elements of its privatization program in the state assembly--through appropriate
pieces of legislation (for instance, the approval of the new regulatory framework, in
January 1997, was the object of many debates on state regulation of public services); in
the press--through interviews given and articles signed by the Governor and the secretary
of planning; and on television and with the use of IBOPE surveys.



31
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION AND JUSTIFICATION
4.1   The privatization/concession program has been designed and guided by the
Planning Secretary of the state government, in consultation (for the concession side in
particular) with the Vice Governor. All major privatization and concession decisions were
subject to the approval of the Governor. The Planning Secretary and the Vice Governor
have established a routine of weekly meetings with the participation of key sectoral
secretaries, the executive secretary of the privatization commission, as well as the
presidents of affected state enterprises, to review implementation progress and take critical
decisions. In addition, within the planning secretariat, the government established a
privatization commission in December 1995, to carry out the state privatization/
concession program. It is headed by an executive secretary reporting to the Secretary of
Planning, and has six managers in the area of sale of assets, concessions, regulation,
procedures and controls, external affairs, and computer systems. Each area is staffed with
professionals who are coordinating the program of privatizations and concessions as well
as the establishment of the new regulatory framework. Furthermore, to ensure a
consistent legal approach to the privatization program, a special unit has been created
within the state general attorney's office (Procuradoria Geral), to provide all legal
assistance required in the drafting of regulations and contracts by the sector secretariats
and the executive secretariat of the privatization program.
4.2   Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The unit has been established within the
privatization commission, under the planning secretariat, to supervise implementation of
the proposed project. It is responsible for centralizing all contacts with the Bank, and for
satisfactory project implementation, including project coordination, disbursements,
accounting, control, costs of implementation and auditing. This unit will be supported by
consultants particularly in the regulatory area. Independent entities, such as auditing firms
acceptable to the Bank, will be used by the project unit to review eligibility of
expenditures.
4.3   The organization charts for the implementation of the state privatization program
are shown below.



32
.... ... .. ....... ..... . ....
rol ~  ~               ~               ~              ~              ~             i
.. .. ..... ......... ........ ....
~co g
~LLJ
ci)
C=,



ORGANIZATION CHART- Project Implementation Unit
.I
Executive Secretary of the 1
F'riva tization/Concession
Commission
External
A uditors
I    .
Aconin  n          Consultants 
Di.s.u.r..me.nt .



34
B. PROGRAM/PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
4.4    The total cost of the state privatization program, and of the project supporting it,
is shown in Table 4.1 below; it is estimated at US$5.9 billion. The main components costs
are:
(i)   the direct costs of the privatization program (US$5.5 billion), i.e. the right-
sizing of the government work force estimated at about US$700 million
and the cost of restructuring and privatizing BANERJ, estimated at about
US$4.8 billion;
(ii)   the incremental recurrent costs of reform of the suburban train system
(Flumitrens) (US$400 million), including the salaries of Flumitrens'
workers that the state had to start paying in 1996, after the federal
government transferred the rail system to the state, and costs of the
concession subsidies to the private group that will take over Flumitrens
during 1998.
4.5    Although all of the costs included in Table 4.1 are legitimate costs of the
government privatization program, only the incremental costs of suburban train reform
(item ii) and those linked with severance programs for public enterprises' work force
under item (i) would be eligible for Bank financing. In the same manner as in a traditional
investment project, the proposed loan would finance recurrent reform costs while the state
implements reforms. Once implemented, these reforms will enable the state to finance
more efficient recurrent and capital expenditures on a sustainable basis with its own
resources and prudent borrowing. Financing the cost of the payroll bill of Flumitrens is
justified as it became the state's responsibility when it was transferred by the federal
government in 1995, and the obligation to meet the payroll began in January 1996.
Payments to an eventual concessionaire would be another kind of recurrent cost of this
important reform.
4.6    Project costs are only local. Careful appraisal of Brazil's overall development
program shows that this level of local cost financing is needed for this high priority
project6. Local costs can be financed by a state government out of budgetary savings,
borrowing from the federal government (which will be eventually financed out of a
drawdown of Brazil's reserves), or borrowing from abroad. In the present context,
budgetary savings are not available. Borrowing from the federal government will not be
consistent with the overall stabilization program. This leaves financing local costs through
foreign borrowing as the most appropriate mechanism.
6   This complies with the Legal Memorandum by the Senior Vice President and General Counsel on
Financing Local Expenditures, April 9, 1996, para. 4, page 17.



35
Table 4. 1: Estimated Program/Project Costs
Categonres
Local      Foreign       Total
Reform Component
Direct Costs of the Privatization Program
-Rightsizing of the work force          700           0           700
-Restructuring and privatizing of      4,800          0         4,800
BANERJ
Incremental Recurrent Costs of Reforms on
a Declining Basis
-Salaries of Flumitrens or subsidies to
the concessionaire                      400           0          400
TOTAL COSTS                        |  5,900           0         5,900
4.7    The financing plan in Table 4.2 shows that the Bank financing accounts for 4
percent of the total reform cost. Rio de Janeiro may also obtain parallel financing from
various domestic agencies.
Table 4.2: Program/Project Financing Plan
Source                    Amount           Percentage
US$ millionsl
I IBRD                                    250              4%
State of Rio de Janeiro                 5,650            96%
TOTAL                         [         5,900           100%
4.8    As already indicated in the program section of this report and in the table above,
the state government is financing nearly all of the costs of the privatization program, in
particular the sizable costs of BANERJ's privatization (workers and pensions liabilities)
and the rightsizing of its state enterprises prior to privatization/concession. Similar to any
adjustment operation, these costs are only indicative. So are the incremental recurrent
costs of the reform--salaries of Flumitrens and/or state subsidies to the private
concessionaire--which can increase significantly if Flumitrens' downsizing is larger than
currently planned, the concessioning to a private concessionaire is later than planned and
the subsidy arrangement between the state and the private concessionaire is different than
planned. Flexibility in the definition of project cost and financing plan typical of
adjustment operations is therefore needed; hence the "program/project" costs and
financing plan.



36
C. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
4.9   To attain its ambitious reform objectives, implementation must focus on the reform
efforts per se, rather than on procurement and disbursement procedures. Furthermore,
disbursement must be quick enough to support the other reform efforts (e.g., downsizing
and privatization). Thus, every effort has been made to keep procurement and
disbursement as simple and cost effective as possible by selecting those items for which
both procurement and disbursement would be done simply and quickly at very low cost.
4.10  To this end, disbursement will be against the incremental recurrent costs of the
suburban railway reform (Flumitrens) in the form of the salaries and/or the subsidy to an
eventual concessionaire (US$250 million of loan resources) on a declining basis; and
severance payments that the government may still need to make, particularly, in the case
of CEDAE.
4.11  Because the incremental recurrent costs of the Flumitrens reform will be disbursed
against the payment of salaries and/or the state transfers to the private concessionaire on a
declining basis and possible severance payments, procurement rules do not apply. A
summary of project's procurement status is provided in Table 4.3 below.
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million) "
Categories               Procurement Method    N.B.F.2  Total Cost
ICB   NCB | Other
Reforn Component
1. Direct Cost of the Privatization Program
-Rightsizing the work force                                 700       700
-Restructuring and Privatizing BANERJ                     4,800     4,800
2. Incremental Recurrent Cost of
Reforms on a declining basis
-Salaries of Flumitrens                           400                 400
or Subsidies after concession                    (250)               (250)
TOTAL COSTS                                       4001  5,500       5,900
(250)              (250)
" Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
2/ N.B.F.: Not Bank financed.
4.12  Review Procedures. To assure that the funds allocated to Flumitrens are used
efficiently, an audit of Flumitrens' payroll and human resources management system was
carried out at the Bank's request by a private entity, the Fundavao Getulio Vargas. This
audit covered fraud detection, a definition of procedures to strengthen management
controls, and enhancement of the management information system. Flumitrens has



37
implemented key recommendations of the audit report, and can now generate acceptable
reports that can be audited. The annual project audit would review salary expenditures
financed by the loan to ensure that they are for employees hired in accordance with the
rules of Flumitrens' human resources system.
Disbursement
4.13  As discussed above, the loan will be disbursed against the incremental cost of the
Flumitrens reform (US$250 million) and severance payments that the Rio government may
still need to make, particularly in the case of the water and sanitation public enterprise
CEDAE. Disbursement will take place at three points: after loan effectiveness (since all
of the conditions for the first time-slice would have been met prior to Board presentation);
after the positive review--planned to take place between January and June 1998--of all
project actions except those related to water and sanitation concessions; and upon
completion of the water and sanitation reforms. Disbursement will be in three unequal
timeslices of US$125 million, US$75 million, and US$50 million respectively. This
frontloading of disbursement is justified by the government's aggressive
privatization/concession program; the completeness of the new regulatory framework
enabling privatization and concession; and by the privatization actions already completed.
These actions include the sale of BANERJ and CERJ as well as the establishment of the
Public Services Regulatory Commission; adoption of concession models for gas, urban
transport and water/sanitation services and preparation of concession documents. For this
reason, 50 percent retroactive financing and the special account of US$50 million include
amounts greater than normally approved for investment loans, in order to meet the
project's fast disbursement requirements. Exception to the limit on retroactive financing
was deemed justified by the extraordinary circumstances presented by the proposed Rio de
Janeiro State Reform--Privatization Loan, in which most of the costs of the reform had to
be front-loaded to permit timely privatization of the state's key infrastructure assets and
utility services.
4.14  The percentages of salary and subsidy expenditures covered by the three time-slice
disbursements would be 100 percent and 90 percent. Salary and subsidy expenditures
incurred after loan signing but not submitted for disbursement could be carried forward to
the following year, but the disbursement percentage would be that specified for the year.
The annual audit report would verify the levels of salary expenditures and disbursement
for the previous year and the amount that would be eligible for the current disbursement
year.
4.15  Disbursement projections are shown in Table 4.4 below. The project completion
date will be September 30, 1998, and the closing date will be December 31, 1998.



38
Table 4.4: Disbursement Projections
IBRD Fiscal Year      Reform      Disbursements 1           Semester
and Semester        Annual       Cumulative  J_%
FY98
Ist (Jul-Dec 97)            125           125           50         1
2nd (Jan-Jun 98)            75            200           80         2
FY99_
1lst (Jul-Dec 98)           50            250          100         3
TOTALS:                     250           2 250     ]  100
Closing Date: December 31, 1998
4.16 Documentation of Expenditures. Withdrawal applications would be disbursed
on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by the PIU. Supporting
documents would not be submitted to the Bank but would be subject to ex-post
independent audits and Bank review. Selective review of SOE documentation, covering
not less than 20 percent of expenses disbursed under SOEs, would be undertaken as part
of the annual project audit. No withdrawals shall be made for each timeslice unless they
are part of the eligible expenditures agreed with the Bank and that disbursement
conditions have been fulfilled.
D. AccouNTs AND AUDITS
4.17   A special account in dollars with an authorized allocation of US$ 50 million will
be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The sum of the first deposit to
the special account and the amounts withdrawn from the loan in respect of retroactive
financing would not exceed the value of the first time-slice (i.e. US$125 million). The
same applies to the second and third time-slice. The special account will be maintained and
operated by the PIU, which will also be responsible for submitting replenishment requests
to the Bank.
4.18  Audits. The state government will maintain separate accounts for the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the loan (i.e., incremental recurrent costs of
reform on a declining basis and possible severance costs). These accounts as well as the
special account will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with the Bank auditing guidelines. The Borrower shall submit to the Bank the
audit reports of expenditures within 6 months of the close of each fiscal year. The audit
reports would certify that the funds were used for eligible expenditures.



39
E. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
4.19   Bank involvement in Rio de Janeiro's state privatization program is prompted by
the substantial economic benefits of the program, and its potential as a model for other
states.
4.20   Project Benefits. The project's economic benefits derive from its impact on the
efficiency of infrastructure services in the state. Deficient infrastructure services are a
constraint on the growth of Rio's economy. Unreliable power supply and urban traffic
congestion directly impede economic growth, by increasing the costs of doing business in
the state. Deteriorating commuter transit systems and the absence of sewerage and
drainage in lower-income residential areas have an indirect impact on the state's economy,
by reducing labor productivity. The sale of CERJ and CEG and the concessioning of
Metro, Flumitrens and CEDAE operations will improve the reliability and increase the
coverage of the services provided by these companies. This will significantly increase the
productivity of Rio de Janeiro's economy, Brazil's second largest.
4.21   There are also economic benefits to BANERJ's privatization. Sale of the bank will
eliminate the economic costs associated with its poor lending decisions. Both the
BANERJ sale and the privatization of infrastructure services will also provide fiscal
benefits to the state. The sale of BANERJ will eliminate the state's exposure to further
losses from the bank's operations. The privatization of the state's urban transport
companies will reduce the costs of annual subsidies to these enterprises.
4.22   Rationale for Bank/IDA involvement. Although the state government is
proceeding with its privatization program on its own initiative, it has asked for Bank
assistance both to strengthen the quality of the program and to finance some of its costs.
The Bank's technical advice is more crucial than its financingper se. Privatization and
concessions are new to Brazil and the state stands to benefit from the Bank's extensive
international experience in this area. Governor Alencar emphasized the importance of
Bank support to this program during his discussion with President Wolfensohn on
December 5, 1995. From the Bank's perspective, the Rio de Janeiro project is also
justified by its wider implications for the country as a whole. The Rio de Janeiro
privatization program is the largest and most ambitious in the country. In encompassing
the sale of a major bank, establishment of a new regulatory framework for the private
provision of public services, privatization of two energy companies, concessions of two
large urban transport operations and a partial concession of the state's water and
sanitation services, Rio's program demonstrates the scope of what can be accomplished.
This lesson will not be lost on other states. In supporting the Rio privatization program,
the Bank can thus leverage support for similar reforms throughout the country.
4.23   The proposed project is within the Bank's current Country Assistance Strategy,
which calls for support of improvements in the performance of Brazil's public sector.
4.24   Project Risks. The key risk to the project is the sustainability of the regulatory
framework. The permanent establishment of a transparent and fair regulatory framework



40
for the private provision of public services is essential to the project's economic benefits.
The framework will take time to become institutionalized, as it represents a radical change
in the way the government has traditionally controlled the provision of infrastructure
services. It will also require frequent adjustment to remain compatible with the evolving
regulatory framework at the federal level. If any federal regulatory development were to
cast uncertainty on existing state regulatory arrangements, already-agreed concession
contracts may become unstable and require renegotiations costly to the state.
4.25   To mitigate this risk, the state has engaged in extensive discussions with existing
public service agencies, legal authorities at the state and federal level and international
private providers of such services before drafting its new regulatory law. The new law is
now in place, permitting the regulatory commission to be organized and its five-member
board to be appointed. In addition, the draft concession contracts for specific enterprises
will be drafted in consultation with the federal government to limit regulatory
uncertainties. These draft contracts will be included in the bidding documents of the
concessions.
4.26   There is also a risk that political opposition will delay some of the program. The
state's privatization program continues to frustrate many vested interests--especially
unions, whose opposition has been fueled by a fear of job losses. To date, Governor
Alencar has been able to maintain wide support from the public and the state assembly for
the program. As all the major elements of the program will be achieved during his term of
office, the risk of political opposition is considered manageable.
4.27  In addition, there is a risk that the fiscal benefits of privatization will be dissipated
by reckless state spending. The approach of the gubernatorial campaign season, combined
with the severe shrinkage of the capital investment budget in 1995 and 1996, will increase
pressure for spending on ill-conceived capital works. This risk is offset, to some extent, by
the difficulty the state will have in raising the financing for such projects. Existing
obligations to personnel and debt service will consume most of the net proceeds of
privatizations. Provided the federal government enforces the lending restrictions
established in the recent debt agreement, the state will have difficulty borrowing. The
SRPL project itself will further mitigate this risk, through the public expenditure review
included in project conditionality. As described earlier, the Bank will review the
government's capital spending program and fiscal performance in 1997, and may suspend
disbursement of the 1998 time slice, and the floating water and sanitation time slice, if the
state's performance deviates substantially from the targets agreed at negotiations.
4.28   On a smaller scale, there is a risk that municipal opposition will impede the award
of water concessions. Unlike power and urban transport services, the state has no
authority to award water concessions. This power lies with municipal governments. To
mitigate this risk, the state government has worked closely with the mayors as the
proposal has evolved. The proposed project itself is designed to ensure that this risk will
not impede project implementation as a whole. The water and sanitation reforn is
organized as a separate, floating, tranche, rather as part of one of the fixed-time slice
disbursements.



ANNEX A
STATE REFORM--PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM LETTER






ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO
PODER EXECUTIVO
Rio de Janeiro, 17th March 1997
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
This Policy Letter describes the State of Rio de Janeiro Reform
Programme, the reasons which led the cuiTent Administration to implement it,
as well as the necessary stages for its execution. In order to carry out such
extensive reforms, the Governmnent of the State of Rio de Janeiro requests the
financial assistance of the World Bank and presents below a brief macro-
economic panorama of Brazil, some information about the economy of the
State of Rio de Janeiro, its administrative and financial situation, and ends up
with the detailing of the reforms it intends to cany out.
I - National Macro-economic Panorama
The reduction of the public sector deficit and the maintaining of
economic growth are the fundamental points in the Programme of Economic
Reform of the Federal Government. In order to eliminate fiscal deficits that
feed inflation and to give support to the Plano Real, the Federal Governnent
has been pursuing the following objectives, which rely on the total support of
the State of Rio de Janeiro:
* consolidation of the currency stabilization, maintaining de-indexation of the
economy; the search for a fiscal balance; the promotion of a market
economy and free competition, with state regulation in the cases of non-
competitive markets.
* promotion of economic growth through the increase in the level of savings,
investments and productivity; intensification of foreign trade and financial
and technological integration with international markets.
* increase in the employment level, as well as the search for a more equitable
distribution of wealth - both at personal and at regional levels - through the
growth of economic activity and its consolidation; public investment in the
development of human resources and social services and, finally, through
measures which promote regional development.



ESTADO DO RIC DE JANELR()
PODER EXECIJTIVO
A sustained economic development and improvements in social well-
being will be reached through more enduring structural reforms in the public
sector, by means of proposals to the Legislative Power of constitutional
amendments which seek to perfect the 1988 Magna Carta and of policies
which continue to promote activities in the private sector, strengthening the
trust of the economic agents in the Plano Real.
II - Rio de Janeiro's Economy
The State of Rio de Janeiro is situated in the Southeast of Brazil, the
country's economic and cultural heartland, it possesses an extensive and
diversified industrial base and is the countly's largest producer of petroleum,
the refining of which, together with the production of steel, are the state's
main industrial activities. The State's Gross Domestic Product - of about
RS85 billion - is the second largest in the country and equivalent to that of
countries such as Venezuela and Chile. considering that the service sector
accounts for 60% of the state's economy thuough financial activities, tourism
and the presence of several federal public organizations and companies. The
State's population totals 13.2 million inhabitants, distributed amongst its 91
municipalities, occupying an area of 43,909 square kilometers. The annual per
capita income is approximately R$6,400. The State of Rio de Janeiro also
benefits from a number of institutions geared to education and research, many
of which are ranked among the most respected in the country. It is the state
that  has  the  highest  number  of  university-educated  professionals
(approximately 11% of the total of the economically-active population), and
its literacy rate is around 91%. The state's tax collection was approximately
RS7 billion in 1996.
III - State of Rio de Janeiro Problem-Situation
The Reform Progranmme which the State of Rio de Janeiro has been
striving to cany out, since the beginning of 1995, and for which it seeks
financial help from the World Bank, is basically a result of the inadequacy of
its current institutional model and the lack of resources to meet its financing
requirements.                                                         :
Monetary stabilization, resulting from the Plano Real, determined the
end of inflationary financing obtained by the states through the deferment of
effective payment of their commitments. This factor, together with a group of
structural limitations, has caused the Brazilian states, in general, and
particularly the State of Rio de Janeiro, to suffer a process of strangling in
their capacity to invest and, therefore, to increase the volume and quality of
services they provide to their population.
2



ESTADO DO RIO DE JANrlRO
PODER EXECUTIVO
If, at a first glance, the lack of adequate investment by the State of Rio
de Janeiro jeopardizes the provision of public services, then the final
consequence of this will be the deterioration of the economy as a whole and its
social structure. On the other hand, the end of stagnation and resumption of
The State's econornic growth (firm goal of the current Administration)
demands an increase in the level of investment in infrastructure and public
services, activities characterized by strong extemalities.
In order to make this level of investment viable, the State of Rio de
Janeiro needs to generate higher levels of current savings and carry out a
programme of divestment of assets, consistent with a new institutional model.
It must, above all, significantly increase its partnership with the private sector
in the provision of public services.
Practice has shown, over the last few years, that a share of revenue
from the states which are committed to expenditures with means-activities is
increasing, consequently resulting in insufficient spending on ends-activities.
It has been noted, particularly in 1996. that there has been an average
commitment of 85% of the cuiTent net r evenue to the payment of personnel.
Expenditure with personnel is high but, the majority are civil servants
who have been earning less than a reasonable salary, especially those who
work in priority public services, such as health, public security and education.
There are, nevertheless, a great number of civil servants who do earn well
above the market, unnecessarily overburdening the state treasury and creating
severe inequity in the State's civil seivants body.
The enormity of the State of Rio de Janeiro's organization has
contributed towards its high cost and low efficiency: there are approximately
265 thousand active workers, 87 thousand retired, and almost 86 thousand
survival benefits are paid. distributed among 18 secretariats, 14 autarchies, 17
foundations, and 25 public companies. With this massive amount of personnel
and profusion of public organizations, it is no wonder that there is such high
expenditure with means-activities, nor that there is a conflict and overlapping
of actions by the organizations responsible for ends-activities.
It is therefore necessary that, together with a revision of the State's role
in society, significant changes are made to the organizational structure of the
State of Rio de Janeiro's Executive Branch of Government. This should be
done through the merger, extinction and privatization of companies and
activities; contracting out concessions of public services; redefinition of
responsibilities and areas of operation; recuperation of financial capacity; and
a re-appraisal of the number of people and the profile of the state civil
servants body.
3



ESTAD() DO RIO DE JANEIR()
PODER EXECImVO
IV - State of Rio de Janeiro Reforms - Privatization Programme
The State of Rio de Janeiro is at the forefront of the other states of the
Federation in the far reaching quality of its plan of reforn, which aims at
recuperating fiscal stability and the capacity to provide public services such as
health, education and public security, according to quality standards
compatible to society's aspirations.
Thus, there are three large reform plans which are currently being
implemented in the State of Rio de Janeiro: Administrative Reform, Financial
Reform and, finally, the State Privatization Progratmme.
Since the beginning of the culTent administration, there has been a
decision to implement in Rio de Janeiro an ambitious privatization programme
as a result of the redirectioning of the role of the State in the economy, with a
view to creating jobs, establishing new standards of competitiveness,
improving the quality of provision of public services and, above all, meeting
the basic needs of the citizen.
One must highlight the fact that this process of privatization has
obtained the necessaly legal support witlh the approval of the State Law No.
2,470, of 28/11/95, with more than two-thirds of the votes in the State
Legislative Assembly.
The main consequence of the redefinition of the roles of the State
adopted in Rio de Janeiro was the decision to transfer to the private sector
those economic activities explored by the State and that do not assume a
collective interest. The State of Rio de Janeiro has adopted a finn position: it
considers that the State has un-delegable tasks to fulfill, and that it is not up to
it to act or replace private capital in the business sector.
On the other hand, the State cannot shirk from its function as supervisor
and regulator and its role as Conceding Power is un-delegable. Thus, the Bill
of Law establishing the Regulatory Agency of Public Services Granted by the
State of Rio de Janeiro - ASEP-RJ was submitted to the Legislative Assembly
and finally became State Law No. 2,686 of 13/02/97.
The State of Rio de Janeiro's Privatization Programme comprises the
following actions:
a) Liquidation of the Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (Bank of the State of
Rio de Janeiro) and privatization of its subsidiaries - Banco BANERJ S.A.
and BANERJ Seguros S.A. (Insurance);
4



ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO)
PODER EXECUTlVO
b) Privatization, Extinction, Merger and Takeover of State Companies; and
c) Concession of Public Services.
a) Privatization of Banco BANERJ S.A.
The privatization of  Banco BANERJ S.A. has a fundamental
significance for the Programme of Reform which is being carried out,
signalling a decisive stage in the redirectioning of the role of the State. There
is no social justification for state banks to operate in the financial system. On
the other hand, preserving control of the Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
would require the transfer of resources by the State Treasuiy of a non-viable
amount, from a financial point of view, or even from an ethical aspect,
considering  the enormous amount of social projects awaiting  public
investrnent. Therefore, in order to prepare the privatization of BANERJ, its
management has been, during the whole vear of 1996, under the responsibility
of Banco Bozano, Simonsen, hired by the State of Rio de Janeiro for that
purpose.
This solution, adopted in conjunction with Brazil's Central Bank,
represented a happy and profitable innovation for the State of Rio de Janeiro,
vis-a-vis the results that have been obtained.  In fact, under the above
mentioned specialized management, new administrative procedures have been
introduced in BANERJ, leading to the closing down of loss making branches,
the reduction in personnel and the launching of new products and bank
services, among other measures, which have practically evened out the
operational situation of the Bank.
Consequently, and after the institutional separation of assets and
liabilities typical of a commercial bank, the creation of a new bank, attractive
to the private sector has been made possible - the Banco BANERJ S.A. -
which was put on sale last December, through two public auctions which were
cancelled at the last moment by judicial order. At the same time that the
Central Bank of Brazil decreed, at the end of 1996, the extra-judicial
liquidation of Banco do Estado do Rio de Janeiro and extended the
Temporary Special Administration Regime of Banco BANERJ S.A., the State
of Rio de Janeiro is making the last necessary modifications in the Sales
Prospectus of the Bank, in order to make irreversible its privatization in the
next two months.
5



ESTAID)() [() D IO )E JANEIIR)
P()DER EXECIJTIV()
b) Privatization, Liquidation, Merger and Takeover of State Companies
* Privatization of CERJ:
The sale of Companhia de Elet-icidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro -
CERJ (State of Rio de Janeiro Electricity Company) was the first privatization
operation carried out by the cunTent administration. In a publi, auction that
took place on 20.11.96 at the Bolsa de Valores do Rio de Janeiro - BVRJ (Rio
de Janeiro Stock Exchange), the State sold 70.26% of the CERJ's total capital,
obtaining R$605.3 million, an amount corTesponding to a premium of 30.27%
on the minimum  fixed price.  The privatization of that company was
completely successful, not only due to the value of the sale - significantly
higher, in relative terms, to the amount of money obtained by the Federal
Govemnment in the sale of electricity companies which it owned (LIGHT and
ESCELSA) - but also due to CERJ  being the first state electric energy
distributing company to be privatized in Brazil. One must also highlight the
innovation brought about by the closed envelope bid at the auction and the fact
that the whole process of evaluation and gathering of information on the
company, as well as its promotion to prospective buyers in Brazil and abroad,
was all carried out in the record time of approximately six months.
e Privatization of CEG:
The evaluation studies and the preparation for the privatization of
Companhia Estadual de Gas - CEG (State Gas Company) are being concluded
in a way that would enable the sale of the company to be done by next June.
In order to guarantee the success of this privatization, the State of Rio de
Janeiro has been having talks with PETROBRAS (Brazil's Federal State
Petroleum Company) to transfer to CEG those clients supplied by it in the
metropolitan area of the City of Rio de Janeiro, as well as to create a new
company (RIOGAS) which will have PETROBRAS as its partner in the supply
and delivery of gas in the other regions of the State of Rio de Janeiro. With
this, PETROBRAS may withdraw fiom the direct distibution of piped gas to
the State of Rio de Janeiro, and it would be up to CEG to distribute gas to the
Metropolitan Region and RIOGAS would be responsible for distributing gas to
the other remaining areas of the State.                                    n
CEG's and RIOGAS' privatization models will include the sale of  "
shares the State owns in the capital of those two companies. It is believed that
this privatization will be highly successful, as was the case with CERJ, and it
will represent a milestone in the gas sector in Brazil.
6



ESTIAID) D)) RIo DE JANElIR()
P'()1)R EXECITIVO
* Privatization of CONERJ:
The concession of the Companhia de Navegagao do Estado do Rio de
Janeiro - CONERJ (Feny-Boat Services Company), expected to take place by
the middle of this year, will represent not only the transfer to the private sector
of waterway transport of passengers - with the expected improvement in the
quality of services provided to the population - but also the freeing of the State
Treasuly from bulky subsidies which currently represent more than twice the
company's net operational revenue. It is certain that this privatization will
have imnmediate positive effects for the thousands of people who daily use this
means of transportation, especially in the crossing between Rio de Janeiro and
Niter6i, which is the main line operated by this company.
* Privatization of CODERTE:
With i-egaird to the Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodoviario e de
Terminais - CODERTE (Road and Bus Termini Development Company), the
State of Rio de Janeiro has been sttdying the adoption of a model which
would basically allow the implementation of some strategies. Among those
are: (I)leasing, sale or transfer of the company's main assets, some of them
located in highly souglht after areas in the MNletropolitan Region of the City of
Rio de Janeiro: (2) sale or tranisfer of the State's share participation; and (3)
transfer, leasing or sale of soi[e of thie teninii to some municipalities in the
State.
* Liquidation, Merger and Takeover of State Companies:
Parallel to the privatizationi and concessions of companies to the private
sector, substantial progr-ess has been made in the liquidation and re-structuring
of companies included in the State Privatization Programme. Therefore, one
must highlight the results obtained in the processes of liquidation of Empresa
Fluminense de Technologia - FLUTEC  (Rio de Janeiro's Technology
Company), of Companhia de Tranisportes Coletivos do Estado do Rio de
Janeiro - CTC (Rio de Janeiro Public Transport Company) and of Empresa
Estadual de Viac,o - SERVE (State Bus Company). Furthermore, in 1996, the
takeover of Companhia do P6lo Petroquimico do Estado do Rio de Janeiro -
COPPERJ by Companhia de Desenvolvimento Industrial - CODIN  was
concluded, and the re-structuring of companies linked to the Secretaria
Estadual de Agricultura, Abastecimento   e Pesca (State Secretariat of
Agriculture, Supply and Fisheries) are on going.
7



ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO
PODER EXEC'JTIVO
c) Concession of Public Services
* Water and Sewerage/CEDAE:
The Companhia Estadual de Agua e Esgoto - CEDAE (State Company
of Water and Sewerage) has been showing, for many years now, a progressive
deterioration of its services, since it lacks resources for making investments
necessaly to expanding and improving them. On the other hand, a substantial
percentage of the company's revenue is destined towards the payment of
personnel at the same time that losses in the systems have reached very high
levels. The transfer of these services will be executed through concessions to
the private sector of the water and sewerage systems, notably the Imunana -
Laranjal, Guandu, Juturnaiba Systems (State of Rio de Janeiro's Lakes
Region) and the Barra da Tijuca-Jacarepagua Sub-system. The concession of
the latter two systems has already begun. with the publishing, in the next few
days, of their respective prospectus, the transfer of which, to the private sector,
is expected to take place in the next few months, whereas, regarding the other
systems of Guandu and Imunana - Laranjal, the Prospect for Hire of the
Financial Consultant has already been published.
* Urban Transport (FLUMITRENS and Metr6):
Both the Companhia Fluminense de Trens Urbanos - FLUMITRENS
(State of Rio de Janeiro's Urban Train Company), which operates the urban
and suburban railway system in the municipalities of the State of Rio de
Janeiro and Baixada Fluminense (urban areas situated in the lowlands of the
State), and the Companhia do Metropolitano do Estado do Rio de Janeiro -
METRO (the state's subway system), consume high subsidies, needing
substantial amounts of investrnent in rehabilitation of their rolling stock, in the
expansion of their systems and general improvements in the services provided
to the population, besides organizational and operational re-structuring. Both
companies are currently the subject of studies of  economic-financial
evaluation and definition of a model of transfer of their services to the private
sector. The contracts of transfer of Metr6's and FLUMITRENS's operation
and maintenance will be signed in the beginning of 1998, bringing new
prospects for improvement in the systems of mass transportation and reduction
in the current expenditure by the State Treasury on these services.
*State Highways:
The concession of roads and highways to the private sector is also part
of the current policy of seeking support from the private sector in order to
make feasible those actions which are of interest to the population and the
development of specific regions in the State. Therefore, as long as it is
economically and financially feasible, one may promote the expansion and
8



ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO
PODER EXECUTIVO
recuperation of the road network with resources exclusively from private
concessionaires. Within this strategy, the Government signed, at the end of
1996, a contract for the concession to the private sector of Highway RJ-124,
which leads to the tourist centre of the Lakes Region, whose development
potential has been hampered for years by the precarious nature of the roads
that give access to it. This is a typical example of the policy which ends up
being adopted by the State.  Other concessions of highw3ys are being
considered and may well be contemplated, as is the case of the Linha
Vermelha (Red Route), in the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro, and of the RJ-
116 Highway which links BR-101 in Itaborai to BR-1 16 in Laje do Muriae, in
the northeast of the state - of vital importance for the oufflow of production in
the region.
V - Monitoring of the Fiscal Results of the Programme of Reform
The monitoring of the State's financial performance in order to gauge
the macro-results of the reform will be based on two indicators: the
operational surplus and the total debt, both expressed as percentages of the
revenue. The intention of the Government is not to permit that the operational
deficit and the total debt exceed, respectively, 35% (thirty five percent) and
285% (two hundred and eighty five percent) of the total revenue of 1997.
Furthermore, the Government also intends to direct most of the resources for
investment in 1997 towards projects and programmes defined in the table
below, besides keeping control over expenditure and the financing necessities
so that these do not exceed the amounts expressed below:
Programme of Mlajor Investments - 1997
PROGRAMME.WA.-:CI .-
(in million RS as w January 1997).      Loan          State.
Metr6                                        220            -
Cleaning up of Guanabara Bay (PDBG)          234            24
Baixada Viva                                 60             6
PET (Mass Transportation)                    5 1            51
Prosanear, Pr6-Saneamento e Pr6-Conclusao    38             -
Other Major Investments                       -            100
Total                                        603           181
9



ESIADX) IX) Rio LDE JANEMR(
PODER EXEC[TIV()
VI- ENVIRONMENT
The State of Rio de Janeiro, recognizing the importance of the state
environmental management system, has decided to give priority to its reform.
Therefore, it intends to re-structur-e and modemize the environmental area,
emphasising the following actions:
(a) to attribute more accountability to environmental agencies, with a view
to establishing a State Environmental Action Plan and the setting up of
goals for its execution;
(b) to revise the institutional and regulatory structure of this area in the
context of the Piivatization Programme. withl a view to integrating the
environmental objectives to the process of state reform;
(c) to caniy out a previous survey of environimental liabilities of the state
public  companies  during  the  envir-onmental assessment of the
economic-financial evaluations and the modelling for the transfer to the
private sector. Particularly with regard to sanitation, to establish goals
for the levels of sewerage treatmenit and environmental obligations, on
the basis of such environmental assessments and, subsequently,
incorporating them to the requlired environinental permits, to be issued
prior to signing the corresponding concession contracts.   These
assessments should then be incorpor-ated or cited in the contracts.
Vil - World Bank Support
This presentation demonstrates the importance of the actions contained
in the Reform Programme that the State of Rio de Janeiro has been carrying
out.  The financial support fiom  the World Bank is essential for the
implementation of these structural reforms, which will substantially improve
the State's finances and will increase the confidence in the state public sector,
thus allowing the resumption of investments so necessary to the sustained
economic development of the State.
Sincerely
M. RCEL  ALEN AR
GOVERNOR    THE STATE OF D10 DE JA   IRO
10



ANNEX B
POLICY MATRIX






ANNEX B
RIO DE JANEIRO STATE PRIVATIZATION LOAN
POLICY MATRIX
ACTIVITY                          BY BOARD PRESENTATION                       PROJECT REVIEW (JAN.-JUNE 1998)
A. Privatization of State Bank
I. Privatization of BANERJ SA      Agreement between federal govenmment, state and central
and of BANERJ Insurance SA      bank on financial assistance to facilitate BANERJ's
privatization process, and on preparation of state's
settlement of pension obligations and other labor liabilities
regarding State Bank of Rio de Janeiro's staff and
pensioners.
Sale of majority of voting shares of BANERJ SA and of
BANERJ Insurance SA.
II. Liquidation of State Bank of Rio  Liquidation of State Bank of Rio de Janeiro and of its  Satisfactory progress in the liquidation of the
de Janeiro and of its pension fund  pension fund (PREVI BANERJ) initiated.           assets and liabilities of State Bank of Rio de
(PREVI BANERJ)                                                                       Janeiro and of PREVI-BANERJ.
B. Privatization or                General law to privatize or concession public enterprises
Concession of Public            and create a new regulatory entity for the concession of
Services                        public services passed.
I. New Regulatory Framework        Law to establish a multi-sector regulatory commission for  Multi-sector regulatory commission is
concessioned public services passed by the State    operating under an operational structure
Assembly and ratified by the Govemor.               satisfactory to the Bank.
II. Urban Transport
(i) Flumitrens (Suburban rail)    Preparation of concession bidding documents for  Concession contract for Flumitrens' services
Flumitrens' services underway; financial advisor hired.    signed.
ii) METRO (Subway)             Preparation of concession bidding documents for Metro's  Concession contract for Metro's services
services underway; financial advisor hired.         signed.



2                                                      ANNEX B
ACTIVITY                           BY BOARD PRESENTATION                      PROJECT REVIEW (JAN.-JUNE 1998)
II. Urban Transport (end)
(iii) CTC/SERVE (buses)          Retrenchment of CTC/SERVE employees initiated;      Satisfactory progress in the liquidation of
liquidation of CTC/SERVE's assets and liabilities  CTC/SERVE's assets and liabilities.
initiated.
(iv) CONERJ (ferry)              Retrenchment of CONERJ employees initiated.         Concession contract for CONERJ's services
signed or CONERJ's shares sold.
Valuation of CONERJ's assets as well as studies for
possible concession of CONERJ's services under way.
(v) CODERTE (terminal operator)   Retrenchment of CODERTE employees                  CODERTE's shares transferred to private
initiated.                                         parties; or the majority of its assets transferred
or leased to private parties, or transferred to
municipalities; or CONERJ liquidated.
III. Energy
(i) CERJ (Electricity)           Majority of CERJ voting shares sold.
(ii) CEG (Gas)                    Consultant to advise on privatization of CEG hired.  Majority of CEG voting shares sold.
C. State Expenditure Review          Signed Privatization Program Letter reflecting     Fiscal performance in 1997 was substantially
agreements between the Bank and the Borrower on the    consistent with the capital spending program
composition and financing of the state's 1997 progran    and fiscal indicators as set forth in the
of major capital investments; and on the definitions and   Privatization Program Letter.
levels of the 1997 fiscal indicators.



3                                                    ANNEX B
BY BOARD PRESENTATION                       DISBURSEMENT UPON REFORM
COMPLETION
D. Water and Sanitation (CEDAE)   Studies on the reform model as well as concessioning and  Concession contracts signed for the operations
municipalization strategies for the whole water and  of water and sewerage systems in areas with a
sanitation system completed.                     total population of at least 2.5 million persons.
The contracts, which will be under terms and
Financial advisor to prepare concession contracts for the  conditions satisfactory to the Bank, shall
metropolitan region's water and sanitation system hired.  include provisions that the operation of such
systems will be in accordance with a) waste
water treatment targets established as provided
in the Privatization Program Letter; and b)
environmental obligations determined on the
basis of environmental audits satisfactory to the
Bank.
Fiscal performance in 1997 was substantially
consistent with the capital spending program
and fiscal indicators set forth in the
Privatization Program Letter.






ANNEX C
LESSONS LEARNED AND PREVIOUS
BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE SECTOR






1
ANNEX C
LESSONS LEARNED AND PREVIOUS BANK EXPERIENCE IN THE
SECTOR
1.    The State Reform--Privatization Loan for Rio de Janeiro draws on lessons of
experience from a number of Bank projects of similar scope and design in both the Latin
America and Caribbean region and Brazil. Because the Bank and other institutions are
increasingly supporting regional development, a wider range of experiences in
operationalizing and implementing these projects can be used. In addition, the Bank's
experience with subnational government projects has evolved rapidly, offering many country-
specific insights.
Subnational Development Projects
2.    Complex project design has often been cited as a key reason for weakening important
components of subnational development projects. Aspects such as institutional development
and financial management are often neglected in these projects, due to the high demand
placed on state implementation and coordination capacities.
3.    Experience shows that by identifying and designing key implementation arrangements
early in the project preparation process allows for greater flexibility and improved project
implementation. In the case of the Minas Gerais Municipal Management and
Environmental Infrastructure Project (Ln. 3639-BR), the Terms of Reference to be used
and implementation arrangements were discussed during the project's preparation phase.
This helped shape the dialogue between the Bank and the state, and, moreover clarified and
better defined project objectives and scope for both parties. Increased borrower involvement
during these stages also has the benefit of giving governments greater project ownership.
4.    In its 1992 review of urban and municipal projects in Brazil, OED found that many
projects did not pay enough attention to the external environment in which they would be
implemented. Tailoring project implementation periods to political mandates is particularly
important in the case of Brazil, as it helps to capture government support for a project. As an
alternative, projects that have a flexible project design can easily accommodate shifting
political priorities. Additionally, any pilot programs need to be quickly implemented to
capitalize on a climate of favorable political and community support.
Project Sector Reforms in Brazil
5.    One of the most relevant projects with respect to design and scope of the Rio SRPL is
the Brazil Public Sector Management Project (Ln. 2721-BR). This project sought to
develop planning and management capacity on the federal level in the areas of sector and
project analysis, multi-year investment planning, and program monitoring. Another major
component of the project was an integrated budget information and control system. One key



2
lesson of experience is that project design should not be overly ambitious since the loan size,
the project's operational complexity, and the number of project components can ultimately
burden both the Borrower and the Bank during implementation and supervision.
Privatization of Public Enterprises in Argentina
6.    Under the Public Enterprise Reform Project in Argentina (Ln. 3291-AR), the
following lessons were learned. The initiative to privatize was entirely the government's. The
Bank was vital in providing financial and technical support, but never set the basic policy
objective.
7.    The Bank prudently kept a low profile; in spite of a ubiquitous Bank presence,
privatization never became a "World Bank Program" in the eyes of political or public
opinion.
8.    A large amount of relevant sector work had been done by the Bank before there was
any indication that a privatization program might be possible. Since at the time, the chances
for any lending resulting from this work were quite low, it may well be thought of as a high-
risk gamble. The gamble paid off, but without this technical work, it would have been
difficult for the new government to seize the moment and push ahead with privatization when
a pervasive sense of national crisis gave it the needed political support.
9.    Implementation was greatly enhanced by a highly effective Project Unit. The fact that
the head of the Unit participated, from the beginning, in loan discussions and formal
negotiations, enabled the Unit to play a constructive role during implementation.
10.   The Bank's imaginative use of adjustment lending, in allowing visible application of
counterpart proceeds to finance severance payments, was decisive in making railroad
privatization feasible. But its justification hinged on two circumstances: monitoring to
prevent rehiring or replacement and, even more important, imminent privatization, after
which the pressures to overstaff would, presumably, largely disappear.
Operational Aspects
11.   Disbursement has been a traditional problem in Brazil due to the long-standing
incompatibility between Brazil's federal procurement law and Bank guidelines. Disbursement
lags also persisted due to federal regulation that mandated that all special accounts be held in
the central bank. In 1993, federal legislation was enacted to allow public entities to hold
projects accounts in institutions outside the central bank. Concrete steps have also been
taken to improve procurement procedures thorough the issuing of Standard Bidding
Documents for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) that were agreed upon by the Federal
Government and the Bank.



ANNEX D
MODERNIZATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT
IN THE STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO






1
ANNEX D
MODERNIZATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
IN THE STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
1. BACKGROUND
A. Rio and the Environment
1.    The state of Rio de Janeiro suffers from a number of very serious pollution problems
that have significant costs for the health of the population and for the ability of the state to
attract tourism and industry:
(a) For many, Guanabara Bay as seen from the Sugar Loaf is the symbol of Rio. Today,
however, the Bay is badly polluted and smelly, and its western parts are effectively dead.
(b) Particulate air pollution in the northern part of Rio Municipality and the Baixada
Fluminense is serious enough to causes health damage including premature mortality.
(c) Sepetiba Bay, to the west of the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Area (RJMA), is an area
of rapid economic development. However, current emissions already exceed the
absorptive capacity of the ecologically sensitive bay.
(d) The risk of accidental industrial spills on the Rio Paraiba do Sul constitutes a serious
threat to the safety of the drinking water supply of most of the state's population.
(e) Pollution of ocean beaches and lakes significantly reduces the value of the state's
touristic attractions.
2.    As a result of poor political support under previous administrations and serious
staffing and salary problems in the environmental agencies, the current environmental
management system is in disarray and unable to cope effectively with the serious pollution
problems. Moreover, bureaucratic environmental licensing requirements, unpredictable
regulations and a lack of reliable environmental information and planning impose significant
costs on businesses without achieving commensurate environmental gains.
3.    On the one hand, the cost of excessive pollution and the cost of poor environmental
management have become an important obstacle to the economic development of the state.
On the other hand, continued economic and industrial development will aggravate the
environmental situation unless drastic measures are taken to improve the state's
environmental management system.
4.    Improving environmental management is not a financial but a management problem.
If the resources of public sector budgets were applied to strategic priorities, and if cost-
effective instruments were used to reduce pollution from industry and the water and
sanitation sector, the financing requirements for public administration, industry and water
and sanitation companies will definitely be affordable.



2
5.    Since September 1995, the state government has been working closely with a World
Bank team on developing a strategy for improving environmental management'. This work
has used systematic economic, cross-sectoral analysis and the limited available information
to develop cost-effective strategies for tackling priority problems and outlining an overall
environmental management strategy. Among the large number of recommendations
resulting from that work, there are five critical actions which are necessary conditions for
any significant progress and all have a direct impact on the proposed SRPL, especially on the
water and sanitation reforms envisaged under the project:
(a) the integration of agreed wastewater treatment targets in the ongoing process to
restructure the water and sanitation sector,
(b) a process for agreeing on environmental targets over time for the most important
waterbasins and airsheds of the state through a State Environmental Action Plan;
(c) introduction of more cost-effective pollution management through a water basin
committee system and effluent discharge fees;
(d) steps to ensure that a small number of technical staff in the pollution enforcement
agency is well equipped, effectively managed and sufficiently well paid to implement a
strategic enforcement program for the most important industrial polluters and to
administer a streamlined licensing process with the necessary flexibility and speed; and
(e) upgrading of the environmental monitoring and information systems to allow systematic
ambient monitoring.
B. Policies
6.    Rio's environmental regulations cover the most important polluting activities.
However, implementation and enforcement are widely lacking. The combination of federal,
state and local environmental regulations has created a highly complex system of
requirements that is confusing for polluters and difficult to enforce. Moreover, the range of
policy instruments used for pollution management is still very limited.
7.    The objectives of environmental policy are formally defined in ambient environmental
standards. The federal government has established water and air quality standards through
resolutions of the National Environment Council (CONAMA). For example, CONAMA
Resolution 20/1986 determines ambient standards for nine water use classes for the main
water pollutants. At the national level there are the PROAGUA national water quality
program and the PRONAR national air quality control program, which include ambient
monitoring, administration of emission licenses, and a national emissions inventory. The
implementation of most policies is the responsibility of the state.
8.    The two main instruments for industrial pollution management are zoning and
licensing. Zoning is unevenly used by local, state and federal governments. State zoning
regulations were originally linked to prevailing ambient pollution levels but have not been
revised to reflect changing environmental conditions. The licensing system requires a valid
license for every potentially polluting enterprise (based on the Rio de Janeiro State Pollution
Further details can be obtained from the Report No 15488-BR "Brazil: Managing Environmental
Pollution in the State of Rio de Janeiro" on which this Annex is based.



3
Activities Licensing System, Decree 1,633/1977). The firms' licensing applications contain
information on technical parameters and emissions based on which the State Environment
Control Council (CECA) grants or refuses the license, which is renewable every five years.
For activities with a large polluting potential, the evaluation of an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) is part of the licensing process. According to state law 13 56/1988 on
EIA, the State Pollution Control Agency (FEEMA) is involved in defining the technical
specification for the EIA, which is then submitted to CECA for approval.
9.    Environmental fines are based on a system that considers levels of toxicity, frequency
of infraction and the size/volume of effluent. While this system is operating, fines have been
too low and enforcement efforts too sporadic to induce systematic compliance with
environmental regulations. In 1991, a State law was passed which requires environmental
audits in all enterprises. The corresponding regulation was decreed in 1995. So far there is
no experience with the implementation of this instrument. Industrial effluents entering the
sewerage system are subject to a load-based charge that is levied by the state water company
(CEDAE) for the main pollutants. A share of these charges is supposed to be passed on to
the State Environment Agency (FEEMA).
C. Institutional Structure
10.   Environmental management in Rio State is the responsibility of the State Secretary of
the Environment (SEMA). The Secretary has only a small staff and oversees the work of
four State Environment Agencies:
(a) The State Pollution Control Agency (FEEMA) employs about 1,000 staff (250 with
university degrees) and is in charge of licensing, monitoring and enforcement of
environmental regulation. FEEMA has also an active role in preparing environmental
norms for SEMA, and has also responsibility for vehicle emission controls.
(b) The Water Resource Management Agency (SERLA) has about 500 staff (80
professionals). A large part of staff and budget are devoted to the execution of water
resource related works and dredging operations.
(c) The forest agency (IDF) has 245 employees (of which 66 are professionals and 54
technicians).
(d) The Mineral Resource Agency (DRM) has a staff of 122.
11.   Other important organs of environmental policy are the State Commission for
Environmental Control (CECA) which includes representatives of most state secretaries and
has one chamber for the approval of regulations and another chamber for the approval of
enforcement acts by the environmental agencies. The State Environment Council
(CONEMA) consists of representatives of Government and civil society and oversees
environmental policy in the state. CECA and FEEMA were created in 1975. The other
entities were later integrated into the environmental management system.
2. MAIN POLICY ISSUES AND PROPOSED REFORMS
12.   Since its foundation, 20 years ago, FEEMA has served as a model agency for the
entire country regarding environmental management, technical expertise and the legal



4
framework it had developed. However, over the last eight years, FEEMA has undergone
drastic decline caused by poor political support, very limited budgets, and weak strategic
direction. As a result of this decline, FEEMA has become trapped in a cycle of decline of
limited effectiveness and limited resources and authorities. FEEMA is no longer effective in
fulfilling some of its basic functions such as systematic monitoring of emissions and ambient
quality as well as spot-checks and site visits with polluters. FEEMA's reduced monitoring
and enforcement activities have reduced its credibility with polluters and the public, making
it more difficult to assert the authority required to meet FEEMA's responsibilities. In turn,
as a less effective agency, FEEMA has problems in justifying its budgets and asserting its
responsibilities toward other agencies.
13.   The environmental agencies have in recent years not been substantially involved in
important decision processes with significant environmental impacts. The result of this
exclusion is that environmental concerns are often not considered from the beginning in
important investment projects, but encountered as a constraint after the planning process is
completed. This procedure has led to polarization and stigmatization of environmental
agencies as obstacles to effective execution of investment projects.
14.   The state government has recognized the serious problems of its environmental
management system and decided to make improved environmental management a priority
area. Actions to be taken include steps toward a modernization of the sector within its
overall program of state reform. The state government has embarked on an ambitious
reform program that includes the following three components, discussed in detail in
subsequent sections:
(a) the establishment of accountability of environmental agencies through transparent target
setting, explicit performance targets, and a restructuring of environmental agencies
focusing on: (i) clarifying the agencies' responsibilities; and (ii) decentralizing many
tasks to local Governments or self-administrating systems, such as water basin agencies,
and the private sector,
(b) a modernization of the instruments of environmental management toward the increased
use of economic instruments; and
(c) the integration of environmental objectives into the restructuring and privatization of
state enterprises under the state reform program.
3. ACCOUNTABILITY IN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
A. Current Problems
15.   The key factor that has led to the decline of environmental management in the state
was the lack of political support and accountability for the performance of the agencies. The
effectiveness of the environmental institutions was reduced by withdrawing necessary
funding, letting salaries slip to non-competitive levels and denying the agencies the political
backing it needed when it wanted to enforce environmental regulations.
16.   From this lack of political support, a management system without clear
accountability has evolved. Environmental targets were set independently of the



5
authorizations of budgets and instruments for achieving these targets. As a result, the
environmental agencies do not have the power to achieve the targets and thus cannot not be
held accountable for these targets. For example, the setting of wastewater treatment targets
for sanitation companies without coordination with environmental agencies, means that the
agencies do not have the means of achieving overall water quality targets. Gaps and
overlaps in the responsibility of different environmental agencies further undermine
accountability.
B. State Environmental Action Plan and Performance Targets
17.   Accountability requires the establishment of clear targets for environmental
management expressed in ambient quality parameters to be attained for specific locations
over a specified period of time. Since environmental problems are inherently cross-sectoral
in nature, targets need to be set in a high-level cross-sectoral coordination process. Realistic
targets will be set for each sink (airshed or water basin), taking both damages and abatement
costs into account. The setting of targets and the implementation of pollution management
policies will be undertaken with as much transparency and participation by polluters and
affected communities as possible. The cross-sectoral participatory process to develop
explicit environmental targets will begin in early 1997. A State Environmental Action Plan is
expected to be approved by the state government in early 1998.
18.   Explicit performance targets for the environmental agencies will be derived from the
State Environmental Action Plan. In return, the agencies will be receiving the staffing
flexibility, budget resources and authorities for the use of specific instruments needed for the
attainment of the targets. This authorization needs to be backed by top-level policy makers
giving the environmental agencies the actual power to enforce the authorized instruments.
The agencies will produce an annual performance report which provides a clear, simple
accounting of environmental quality, emissions sources, and agency operations in pursuit of
agreed-upon objectives.
C. Agency Restructuring
19.   SEMA is currently preparing a comprehensive restructuring and modernization plan
aimed at eliminating overlaps and gaps in the responsibility of environmental agencies. The
state agencies will focus on the core functions, including enforcement and supervisory
activities, and redirect their activities to "second-tier" functions while decentralizing actual
policy implementation to: (a) the private sector where services -- such as ambient
monitoring -- can be contracted out; (b) municipalities where pollution activities have only
local scope; and (c) self-organizing bodies such as water basin agencies. The environmental
agencies will focus on the setting of policies and the supervision of actual policy
implementation. The government aims to have implemented the first phase of the
restructuring plan (including performance targets for the new agencies) by mid-1997.



6
4. STAFFING AND BUDGETING PROBLEMS
A. Current Problems
20.   The environmental agencies are paralyzed by an excessive number of poorly paid and
unmotivated staff as well as serious budget rigidities. In many cases, the agencies do not
have the right staff-skill mix for implementing a modem regulatory approach to
environmental management. Moreover, the pay for professional staff is not competitive, as
well as unequal and unresponsive to performance. Inflexible budget procedures and lack of
timely access to budgeted resources are serious constraints limiting the availability of non-
staff resources and reducing the effective utilization of staff.
21.   With the exception of DRM, the environmental agencies are parastatal institutions
(funda,ces). However, most of the rigidities of the government employment system still
apply to these organizations. FEEMA has two types of employees: "celetistas" under federal
law, and "estatuarios" under state law. Both enjoy quasi lifetime employment guarantee.
The constitutional employment guarantee reduces staffing flexibility and makes it almost
impossible to dismiss unproductive or obsolete staff and replace them with staff that could
contribute new skills. Lifetime employment and declining budgets have made new hiring
almost impossible. Over the last 15 years, no formal competition for the hiring of new staff
has taken place.
22.   In FEEMA, real average monthly salaries for professional staff have eroded from the
equivalent of nearly Rs.$3,000 in the mid-1980s to Rs.$900 at present. The salaries for
professionals are not competitive with salaries in the private sector or state enterprises, such
as CEDAE. Salaries do not differ by experience or performance, and within the regular
salary system there are no built-in merit incentives.
23.   As the result of low salaries, lack of performance incentives and protection from job
loss, absenteeism is high and work motivation is minimal. Out of FEEMA's staff of 977, 149
are lent to other agencies or retired (but still paid for by FEEMA). Of the active staff of
828, at least 30% do not report to work regularly and an additional 30% of full time staff
only work part-time. Ultimately, the number of effective full-time staff is probably less than
200. In many cases, work productivity is minimal.
24.   On the one hand, the staffing system leaves agency management very little flexibility
to hire or fire personnel. On the other hand, the budget system reduces the agency's ability
to effectively employ current staff. The overall share of FEEMA's budget has declined from
1.5% of the state budget in the mid eighties to 0.5% in 1995. Discretionary budgets for non-
staff operations expenses are low and -- even if they were sufficient -- not actually
accessible. Funds often do not become available until late into the fiscal year.
B. Suggested Reforms
25.   Improvements in environmental management will depend on substantially improved
basic working conditions of the agencies and sufficiently flexible staffing levels. The new
system will require the setting of priorities and supervision of decentralized activities that
depends on highly qualified staff in the agencies that can only be attracted or retained at
competitive salary levels. Therefore, salary levels for remaining and new professional staff



7
will have to be raised significantly. Also, new agencies will have a ratio between professional
staff and technicians and support staff much higher than in the present agencies. A simple
numerical example can show the compatibility of adequate salaries for a small number of key
professionals with budget reductions.
26.  Pending federal reforms would allow involuntary staff reductions, thus also allowing
the hiring of staff to meet the changed requirements of the agencies. If involuntary staff
reductions are not legally possible, excess staff would be formally removed from their
positions and offices (in the case of absent staff this implies little change but a reorganization
of work that acknowledges the already effectively much smaller size of the organizations).
27.   Total sector budgets appear adequate if the proposed staffing changes can be
implemented. Key is the availability of sufficient budget for discretionary operating expenses
and management of these resources by agencies within performance contracts. Increased
cost recovery for some services, such as licenses, can contribute toward the related expenses
but is unlikely to reach a significant share of total budgets. The use of environmental fines
and emission charges to support the recurrent costs of the agencies will also be considered.
28.   The action plan for staff and budget restructuring which the government may
consider implementing by early 1998, consists of the following elements:
(a) increased flexibility in the hiring and firing of staff for the agencies;
(b) an overall reduction of staff with an introduction of more competitive salaries for
qualified new and remaining staff,
(c) increased pay equity for equal positions and introduction of merit-based salary
components;
(d) assurance of sufficient discretionary operations budgets for the agencies, together with
more flexibility and timely availability of these resources.
5. POLLUTION MANAGEMENT INSTRUMENTS
A. Current Problems
29.   Current environmental management instruments are largely based on a command-
and-control approach and a rather inflexible bureaucratic mentality. The licensing process is
not focused on environmental impact but on micro-management of detailed engineering
aspects of individual plants. Moreover, there is no effective link that ties environmental
policies to the ambient environmental conditions in specific locations. Cross-sectoral
planning and coordination of environmental policy is lacking. Economic thinking and the
desire to develop flexible and cost-effective solutions to pollution problems is not yet
widespread. For example, the lack of integration between effluent controls from industry
and the sanitation sector, and between air emissions from industry and transport, had led to
pollution reduction measures that are not always cost-effective. There has been very little
cooperation between environmental agencies and the industry and other polluters, even
though experience elsewhere suggest that such cooperation is critical for effective pollution
reduction.



8
B. Proposed Reforms
30.   The thorough modernization of environmental management instruments will focus on
a reorientation of administrative regulation that is based on detailed involvement of agency
staff in plant engineering to an output-oriented economic approach that focuses on key
environmental impact parameters. Economic instruments, such as effluent charges and
tradable emission permits, will replace, or amend, step by step existing administrative
instruments such as emission standards and complex licensing procedures. Clear and
consistently-applied regulations will permit flexible responses by polluters while providing
strong financial incentives to abate critical pollutants. A cost-effective pollution
management strategy will be applied consistently across sectors, requiring the integration of
air pollution control in transport, industry, and garbage burning, and water pollution control
in industry, households, and the water and sanitation sector.
31.   Given the current weaknesses of the environmental management system, a strategic
focus on key problems is absolutely critical. Many low-cost pollution abatement options are
available in specific cases. Obviously, policies should focus on these inexpensive solutions
first. At least in the short and medium term, this means focusing on critical sinks and critical
pollutants and focusing principally on large pollution sources while at the same time
directing sufficient attention to other polluters to encourage compliance at reasonable levels
and establishing the general rules of the game, which in the long term will be enforced for all
polluters.
32.   Once priority areas have been determined, policies need to be strongly and
consistently enforced. The agencies have lost credibility with polluters due to declining
enforcement activity. This credibility needs to be rebuilt in order to make the agencies an
effective counterpart for often powerful polluters. To build this credibility, consistent and
strong enforcement of a few selected priority areas is more effective than a large number of
impressive but unenforced or unenforceable policies.
33.   Efficient pollution management is based on transparent rules and principles that apply
across the state but also on flexibility in appropriately applying these rules to specific
pollution problems. The natural focus of environmental management is on regions defined
by natural water basins and airsheds (sinks). Decentralized management systems within an
overall policy framework are most effective in implementing this approach. For example,
municipalities, water basin agencies, and airshed committees will be authorized by the
environmental agencies to apply environmental policy instruments to pollution problems
within their domain. This approach implies the delegation of certain regulatory functions
under the overall supervision of the environmental agencies.
34.   The key reform of environmental management instruments consists of the
introduction of a comprehensive system of water basin agencies. Plans for the introduction
of this system are well advanced, and a draft law will be presented to the legislature during
1997. The draft law provides for the application of effluent discharge fees within the water
basin management systems. The draft law will be revised to incorporate the right of the state
to impose a discharge effluent fee if a water basin agency has not been formed or has not
produced an acceptable pollution management plan within a specified time period. This
charge mechanism will create efficient economic incentives for pollution reduction and



9
prevent a perverse incentive against the formation of water basin agencies if the discharge
fee were only levied within such systems. The discharge fee will be phased in gradually over
a period of several years. Once the revised water resource management law, which the
government intends to submit to the state assembly this year, has been passed, formation of
key water basin committees will be encouraged and the effluent discharge fee would be
phased in.
35.   The agencies will be reoriented toward a more cooperative approach vis-A-vis
polluters. While their ultimate enforcement power cannot be questioned, the agencies will
focus on negotiations, voluntary compliance agreements and assistance for enterprises and
other polluters in attaining environmental targets. Within the public sector, environmental
agencies will actively participate in the design of major new projects, allowing them to
contribute constructively. The role of the agencies will change from a pure environmental
police function to a service provider function, in particular through the provision of
environmental information.
6. STATE ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
36.   The State Environment Secretariat SEMA is actively involved in all aspects of the
state privatization program, in particular through an analysis of the potential environmental
effects of the program and the design of measures to remedy possible negative impacts. As
an example, environmental audits were undertaken prior to the privatization of the energy
companies, CERJ and CEG. Because of its major contribution to pollution problems in the
state, the restructuring of the water and sanitation sector deserves more detailed analysis
from an environmental perspective. The environmental implications of the reform
components in the transport sector are more limited. However, a brief analysis is provided
in a subsequent section.
A. Water and Sanitation Sector
(1) Wastewater Treatment
37.   The water and sanitation sector is, for most conventional pollutants, the main source
of water pollution in the state. Up to the present, there is very little sewage treatment, and
raw sewage from collection systems and uncollected runoff directly enter the waterbodies.
The ongoing IDB/OECF-financed Guanabara Bay Basic Sanitation Project includes
additional sewage treatment investments. However, with the concurrent expansion of
sewage collection networks there is little change in the total discharge of effluent from the
sector.
38.   One of the reasons for considering increased private sector participation in the water
and sanitation sector is the need to generate the financing needed to expand basic sanitation
services and associated wastewater treatment. The planned reforms have, thus, a significant
positive environmental effect, and if properly designed, can contribute greatly to improved
environmental management in the state. Since the environmental targets to be set for the
new utilities will be a critical factor in determining both the economic feasibility and the
environmental consequences of restructuring, careful coordination of the environmental
aspects of the water and sanitation sector restructuring is of great importance.



10
39.   Fundamental decisions about what level of wastewater collection and disposal
services should be provided and how this should be financed must be made in the near
future. These are essentially environmental decisions that are linked with strategic choices
about future levels of environmental quality in the main river basins of the state. It is of
critical importance that a consistent set of environmental targets and obligations for the
restructured utilities be developed early in the process through a coordinated mechanism
between the water and sanitation sector, on the one hand, and the environment sector, on the
other hand. In this way, the potential implications of alternative options for investment
requirements, tariffs, and environmental quality can be assessed before taking the final
political decisions.
40.   Once wastewater treatment targets have been agreed by the government, they will
have to be incorporated in the sector restructuring as an obligation of the concessionaire and
in the applicable environmental license. Once the sector has been restructured, there is no
reason to treat water and sanitation companies differently from other large point pollution
sources. Therefore, the concession contract should provide for a transition from a rigid
regime with fixed targets, for instance in the first few years of the contract, to the general
environmental management regime. In the latter regime, water and sanitation companies will
be represented as users within the water basin management structure, and will be subject to
the normal licensing, monitoring, and inspection requirements applied to other companies.
After a transitional period, they will also be required to pay effluent discharge fees either to
the state or to the relevant water basin agency. Failure to meet the terms of their discharge
permits will expose them to the imposition of fines and/or other penalties.
41.   There is a need to establish an effective coordination mechanism between the
economic and the environmental regulation of the concessions. The government has hired a
consultant to develop a mechanism for coordinating the economic and environmental
regulation of water and sewage operators. Specific wastewater treatment targets and the
mechanism for coordinating economic and environmental regulation will be reflected in the
concession contracts and the applicable environmental licenses.
(2) Drinking Water Quality
42.   Currently, FEEMA is contracted by CEDAE to undertakes regular analyses of
drinking water quality in the CEDAE network. Monthly samples from about 1,000
monitoring points are analyzed for fecal coliform and residual chlorine. The results are
submitted to the Secretary of Health, which has responsibility for supervising drinking water.
Revised drinking water standards from 1991 are based on WHO guidelines and cover a large
number of potential pollutants. Since FEEMA does not have the capacity to undertake
monitoring according to the 1991 standards, CEDAE plans to contract private laboratories
for regular analysis of water samples for compliance with the new standards. The private
laboratories will have to be certified by FEEMA. The requirement to comply with 1991
standards and submit water quality analysis from a certified laboratory to the Secretary of
Health will also apply to any future private sector operator.
43.   The Rio Paraiba do Sul is the primary source of drinking water for the Rio de Janeiro
metropolitan area. A total of 160 m3/s is transferred from the Rio Paraiba do Sul to the
Guandu river basin via the Light-Guandu system with its Santa Cecilia pumping station



11
downstream from Volta Redonda. Most of this transfer is used to generate electricity but 47
m3/s is abstracted from the Guandu by CEDAE's main water treatment plant.
44.   Current levels of bacteriological contamination and organic material in the Paraiba do
Sul do not pose any significant threat to drinking water supplies for Rio de Janeiro or other
towns and cities in the Rio Paraiba do Sul basin since, at worst, they imply slight additional
costs of treatment. Even though water quality levels for heavy metals and toxic organic
chemicals are within threshold levels set for drinking water supplies, upstream discharges
will be reduced wherever this can be achieved at reasonable cost. The five-year compliance
agreement between FEEMA and CSN foresees a reduction of emissions of benzo-pyrene
and other hydrocarbons from the CSN plant. FEEMA's enforcement will focus on
compliance with this agreement.
45.   The nature and extent of potential risks associated with the eutrophication of the
Funil Reservoir, upstream on the Rio Paraiba do Sul, cannot be assessed with current data.
It is asserted that the level of algae in the intake for the water treatment plant has been rising
and may reach unacceptable levels in the future. More detailed technical analysis is required
before any conclusions about the priority to be attached to this problem can be drawn.
46.   Spills and other accidental discharges of hazardous pollutants from industrial plants
upstream of the pumping station have occurred and will occur in the future. It seems that
these emergencies are dealt with on an ad-hoc basis. This is not satisfactory. Transit times
down the river are short so that immediate action may be required if the pumping station had
to be shut down in order to allow the spill to pass on down the river. Even if pollutants
discharged in an accident get into the Guandu system, there are a variety of options
including temporary closure of the Guandu water intake and reliance on other water sources.
At the moment it seems that insufficient attention has been paid to developing a clear
emergency response system, together with measures designed to ensure that the water
abstraction arrangements have sufficient flexibility to mitigate the hazards posed by a serious
accident.
47.   An emergency response system to deal in a graduated manner with the risks posed by
accidental spills from chemical and other plants along the river must be developed as quickly
as possible. A critical aspect will be to ensure that there are clear mechanisms for assessing
the hazards posed by spills and for reporting all necessary information to those who have to
take action as well as to the relevant regulatory authorities. There should be provision for
severe penalties to be imposed on any company that fails to report a potentially hazardous
spill promptly. The development of an emergency response system will be linked to the
restructuning of the water and sanitation sector. If it is decided that the Guandu treatment
plant were to be privatized, the concession contract will specify clear performance targets
for: (a) managing emergencies resulting from accidental spills as well as other causes, and
(b) investing, as appropriate, in measures -- such as additional separate storage capacity and
water intakes -- designed to increase the flexibility of the system in the face of such
emergencies.
(3) Environmental Audits
48.   All facilities to be privatized will be subject to an environmental audit for compliance
with applicable regulations, which will determine measures required before the concessioning



12
and obligations for the concessionaire to be included in the concession contract. Depending
on which facilities will eventually be privatized, audits would include the water intake and
the Guandu treatment plant including the need for an emergency response system, water
quality and sampling methods, wastewater discharges, and disposal of solid waste from
wastewater treatment plants.
B. Transport Sector
49.   The effect of transport sector policies on air pollution cannot be systematically
assessed at present, due to the lack of basic data on vehicle emissions, ambient quality and
control costs. However, very preliminary work suggests that the contribution of the
transport sector to ambient concentration of total suspended particulates, the main problem
in the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Area, is less than 20%. However, the contribution to fine
particulates, which are of special concern because of their health effect, will be larger.
Transport emissions also have a much larger contribution to ground-level ozone
concentration. However, at this time, there is no data are available to verify the existence of
a significant ground-level ozone problem in Rio de Janeiro.
50.   PROCONVE (Programa de Controle da Polui,co do Ar por Veiculos Automotores)
is the national program for control of vehicle emissions. National vehicle standards for new
vehicles have been determined by CONAMA Resolution 18 of May 6, 1986, with a schedule
of tightening emission standards and a series of subsequent regulations for gasoline and
alcohol-powered vehicles. CONAMA Resolution 10 of September 14, 1989 establishes
standards for diesel vehicles. CONAMA Resolution No. 7 of August 31, 1993 sets emission
standards for vehicle in use.
51.   Since 1988, FEEMA has undertaken spot checks of heavy diesel vehicles for black
smoke and issued fines (in theory, US$1,300 per violation) to vehicles failing the test. The
spot-check program has been complemented by a call-in line to FEEMA for the denunciation
of smoke-belching vehicles. The systematic program of spot-checks of heavy duty vehicles
was abandoned in the early 1990s in favor of occasional measuring campaigns. During a
campaign in 1993-94, 1,324 diesel vehicles were inspected out of which 64% were fined for
violations. Currently, there is no program of periodic vehicle inspection and maintenance.
However such program is planned under a draft law currently awaiting approval in the State
Legislature.
52.   The gasoline (gasohol) typically sold in Rio contains 22% alcohol. In addition, some
vehicles use pure alcohol as fuel. Following a program by the municipality to encourage the
use of CNG as a cleaner fuel, there are currently about 2,000 taxis and 200 urban buses
operating on CNG. Lead has been phased out from gasoline since 1991. The average sulfur
content of diesel is 0.7% country-wide and 0.5% in major metropolitan areas including Rio.
53.   Since the information base on which to build more effective monitoring of vehicle
emission controls is extremely weak, the government will undertake a comprehensive study
of air pollution problems in the RJMA which will determine the contribution of the transport
sector to air pollution problems. In particular, this study will assess the extent of air
pollution with pollutants not currently monitored (in particular PM- 10 and ozone), compile a
detailed emission inventory, undertake preliminary dispersion and photochemical oxidant



13
formation, analyze control options and propose a cost-effective air quality control strategy.
Based on the study, a transport sector emission strategy will be developed by early 1998.
54.   The state reform program includes the sale of a very small share of the city's total
bus fleet. All buses to be sold will be required to have a certificate of compliance with
environmental regulations prior to and at the point of sale. For CONERJ's ferryboats,
Flumitrens, and Metr6 facilities, an environmental audit will be carried out prior to inviting
the concession bids. The sale or concessioning agreements will include the necessary
environmental and safety safeguards.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 280322
44  02                   42&.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2. ,1            M  IN AS                      G E R A  IS                                                                                  20                                                22~02 
S  TATE CAPITAL                                  I          ESPIRITO                                                                                                                                                        BR ZI
TImUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                             SANTO   2,                                                                                .~4                                                                   R ZLL                                  A
STATE BOUNDARIES                         /          '.                                       '           ~                                                                            RIO  DE JANEIRO  STATE REFORM   LA
O     TO~~~~~~~~~~~~0~~~~~0~~~~~ ~~RIO   DE  JANEIRO   METROPOLITAN  AREA
4_                                                                                                                                      G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UANABARA SAY BASIN BOUNDARY
MINAS    GOER A IS                                                                                                                                                                                                     SURB3ASIN BOUNDARIES
aoiboa                                                                                               EN   SELECTED EXISTING WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS
-            -        22                                                                                                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d   u    SELECTED FUJTURE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS
I                                                                                                                                 F    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRPORTS
RIO    DE  J A N E I RO                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS AND) STREAM~S
, Ro~oo.I   4oI~  Bood P                    N- F100E,64                                    -                                                                                                                                0      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
Oooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooIo  I                                                                                                                    ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~~~STATE CAPITAL
SAO ~ ~       ~        ~       ~ ~                                                                                                                                                                                        MUNICIPALITY BOUNDARIES'
PAUO       I)-RIO DE JANEIRO METROPOLITAN AREA BOUNDARY
PALOg oIooo                               I-    -  .STATE BOUNDARIES
Blod. Loooo      -         - -       -PTRPU                                                                                                                                                             ------ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
TL NTI C    232
13-           12-   0  ~~C E AN                                                                                           TerMOOpOIOoois                                                                  A-   d,po10d
22 30                                                do Piroi                                                                                                                                              -d    aoo2
Petr6pois                                       CACHOEIRAS<,-d   .oc                                                                         23 
- - 0V118                                       -  --                 )                       C                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DE MACACU
Redor,d.                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0                              20 <OIITOmErTRS
/                          - -        P~~~~~orocCAbAS
SAO"                                                                                                                                                                                                -  RIO                        Ph- -o   ,     d.o - ,oo, h. ,   d Th. Wde -4G,p
(                                                                                                                                                                  0OYWOBI1000  h.I.0oI,w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Soop ooooy.   p.odoo..o..ol~~~~~~~~~~~-d-I  h.I,_  -~f,I.., - ....
p,,,                         -          ~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~     ~~~NOVA. IGUA(~U  ',                           d                                          08. Rio  ,,tIo
ITAGUAi            I        ~         4E40OQO DoB   7fe AO00                                                        TAOAI2
0                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ARIc
2                                          -,                                                                                                                                                                   P180 A1ideJner.G"w     ci  Mpc
ReelIg0                                                                                                                                                                     \---r    10RIO  DEYo,JTENEIROB
2420  2220                                                                                                                                  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;1I  E-IR
4040 -0









IMAGING
Report No.:        15869   BR
Type:     SAR



