Report No. PIC3796
Project Name                     Brazil-Rio de Janeiro State (@+) ...
Reform--Privatization Loan
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Privatization
Project ID                       BRPE39197
Borrower                         State of Rio de Janeiro
Implementing Agency              Rio de Janeiro Secretariat of
Planning
Date this PID Prepared           March 31, 1997
Appraisal Date                   May 1996
Board Date                       Second Quarter of 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background. Brazil recently completed the
second year under a stabilization plan that has seen an impressive
reduction in the monthly rate of inflation from about 40 percent at
mid-1994 to around one percent currently. The economy has grown at
an annual rate of close to 3.5 percent over the same period, while
the external current account deficit has been limited to about 2.5
percent of GDP. Strong capital inflows permitted a buildup in
international reserves to US$60 billion at end-June 1996, or 13
months of imports of goods and nonfactor services. However, fiscal
policy weakened in 1995. The primary fiscal balance of the public
sector remained in surplus in 1995 and 1996 (0.4 and 0.6 percent of
GDP respectively), but was significantly lower than in 1994 (5.2
percent of GDP). The most important factors behind this
deterioration were an increase in wages and a much higher domestic
interest bill resulting from tight monetary policy and an
accumulation of internal debt by Federal and State governments.
2.      State and local governments have large financing requirements
(operational deficits, refinancing of short-term bonds, and
deficits of state-owned banks) which must be reduced to consolidate
the stabilization program. Some reduction in the deficit of states
is achievable with strong programs in at least three of the four
largest states, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro (RJ), and Rio Grande
do Sul, with which the World Bank is working on state reform
programs. From a microeconomic perspective, there is concern that
the large volume of resources spent by subnational governments
(about half of total budgetary public expenditures) is not spent
efficiently, with vast overstaffing, poor service delivery, and
inefficient and subsidized state-owned enterprises.
3.      As with other states, weak public administration and state
ownership and monopoly of key commercial enterprises have contributed
to undermining RJ's financial and economic performance and, ultimately,
investment and services in those sectors. Therefore, the components of
the Rio de Janeiro State Reform--Privatization Loan (SRPL) seek to improve
the state's efficiency and delivery of public sector and infrastructure
services (through privatization of these services) and to remove one major



source of quasi-fiscal losses by privatization of the state bank.
4.      Project Objective. The project's objectives are those of the
state's reform program as a whole: to yield a state government that
is more efficient in the delivery of public services. The specific
role of the project is to improve the quality of the design and
implementation of the state privatization program and finance some
of the privatization costs.
5.      Project Description. To support these objectives, the project
includes the following components: (i) privatization/liquidation of
the state bank; and (ii) privatization or concession of public
enterprises.
6.      Project Financing. The Bank is considering a US$250-million
loan to the State of Rio de Janeiro, with the Guarantee of the
Federative Republic of Brazil, to help finance Rio's State
Privatization Program. The total cost of the program is estimated
at US$5.9 billion. This amount includes costs of (a) liquidating
liabilities of the state bank (BANERJ) to depositors, pensioners
and other creditors; (b) severance payments for staff dismissed
from public enterprises; (c) incremental costs of the reform,
particularly treasury transfers to an urban transport public
enterprise. Sources of financing comprise the Rio government budget
(which includes receipts from privatization and concessions), the
proposed loan from the World Bank, and loans from the federal
government.
7.      Project Implementation. A project implementation unit will be
established in the Privatization Commission under the Planning
Secretariat to ensure (a) continuous monitoring of the
Privatization Program; (b) implementation of required conditions
for disbursements; and (c) compliance with disbursement and
auditing agreements.
8.      Project Sustainability. The SRPL focuses on the
implementation of reforms which are difficult to reverse. In
particular, the state government will privatize the state bank,
BANERJ, and the electricity and gas distribution state enterprises.
It will also grant private concessions for the provision of public
services, particularly of urban transport, water and sanitation
services (the electricity distribution state enterprise has already
been sold).
9.      Lessons Learned from Previous Operations. Key lessons of the
Bank's extensive experience in the reform of the public sector are
summarized as follows. First, projects must focus on a few
significant reforms that are hard to reverse -- such as
privatization of public enterprises and banks, and reforms passed
through legislation -- and that can be fully implemented during the
mandate of a government. Second, project design and implementation
arrangements must be flexible enough to achieve targeted reform
objectives. Third, as reform projects for subnational governments
can have high supervision costs, project implementation should seek
to include as much private participation as possible in such areas
-2 -



as auditing and procurement. Finally, to ensure commitment in
implementation, the initiative to undertake the project components
should be the government's. The Bank's role should be to provide
financial and technical support.
10.     Poverty Category. Not applicable.
11.     Environmental Aspects. This project is classified as a
category 'B'. The proposed reforms would have neutral or beneficial
environmental impacts. In particular, the project will not only
contain safeguards against possible negative environmental impacts
of other project components, but also actively contribute to
improvements in environmental management by the state. Potentially
polluting enterprises will have environmental audits requiring new
owners or concessionaires to address the eventual environmental
problems.
12.     Program Objectives Category. Private Sector Development (PV).
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Environmental
Environmental Impact Category
13.     The proposed project would finance reforms that would have
neutral or beneficial environmental impacts, and has been
classified as Category B regarding its environmental impacts.
Rio's Environmental Management System
14.     In parallel with the preparation of the proposed project, the
Bank has been actively involved in helping the government improve
its environmental management system (seel/) , because of the close linkage
between improved environmental management and the reform of the
water and sanitation sector undertaken under the SRPL. Thus, the
project will not only contain safeguards against possible negative
environmental impacts of the project components, but also actively
contribute to improved environmental management by the state.
15.     The thorough modernization of environmental management
instruments will focus on economic instruments to replace, or
amend, step by step, existing administrative instruments and
complex licensing procedures. The introduction of a comprehensive
system of water basin management is the key element of these
reforms. Plans for the introduction of this system are well
advanced. A bill will be presented to the state assembly during
1997. One of the main features of the bill will be an effluent
discharge fee and the right for the state to impose a penalty on
users if a water basin agency has not been formed or has not
produced an acceptable pollution management plan within a specified
time period. These mechanisms will create efficient economic
incentives for pollution reduction and prevent a perverse incentive
against the formation of water basin agencies if discharge fees
were only levied within such systems. The discharge fee will be
phased in gradually over a period of several years.
Environmental Aspects of the Rio de Janeiro State Privatization
Program
16.     The State Environment Secretariat, SEMA, and the
environmental agencies are actively involved in an analysis of the
potential environmental effects of all aspects of the state
privatization program. As an example, environmental audits were
undertaken before the privatization of the electricity company
(CERJ). Similarly, environmental audits will be conducted for
companies to be concessioned or privatized in the future. The
environmental audits will identify environmental problems
associated with past and current time practices and provide
solutions to mitigate these problems along with estimated costs and
schedule.
17.     Water and Sanitation Sector. One of the reasons for
considering increased private sector participation in the water and
sanitation sector is the need to generate the financing needed to
- 4 -



expand basic sanitation services and associated wastewater
treatment. The reforms have, thus, a significant positive
environmental effect, and if properly designed, can contribute
greatly to improved environmental management in the state. A set of
environmental targets and obligations for the restructured
utilities is being developed through a coordinated mechanism
between the water and sanitation sector, on the one hand, and the
environment sector on the other. In this way, the potential
implications of alternative options for investment requirements,
tariffs, and environmental quality can be assessed by all
interested parties.
18.     Transport Sector. The state privatization program includes
the sale of an extremely small share of the city's total bus fleet.
All buses to be sold will be required to have a certificate of
compliance with environmental regulations prior to and at the point
of sale. For ferry boats, Flumitrens, and Metro facilities, an
inspection for compliance with environmental and safety regulations
will be carried out prior to inviting the concession bids--it is
part of the mandate of the financial advisors' consortium in charge
of preparing and promoting the Flumitrens and Metro concessions.
1/      Bank sector work is reported in Brazil:   Managing Environmental
Pollution in the State of Rio de Janeiro, Bank Report No. 15488-BR,
(August 22, 1996).
-5-



