Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4211-BR
Loan Agreement
(Rio de Janeiro State Reform-Privatization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
Dated March 27, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4211-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 27, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated March 17, 1997 (the  Program 
Letter), from the Borrower describing a program of actions designed, inter alia, to 
enhance the Borrower’s efficiency in the delivery of services through the 
privatization of enterprises owned or controlled by the Borrower and the concessioning 
of public services, describing the Borrower’s program of major investments to be 
undertaken in 1997, and indicating the proportion of such investments that will be 
financed from debt  and the level of fiscal performance to be achieved in 1997 (the 
Program), as well as declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; 
(B)
the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Program and of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project;
(C)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“ASEP-RJ” means Agência Reguladora de Serviços Públicos Concedidos do 
Estado do Rio de Janeiro, the Borrower’s regulatory agency of the public services 
under concession, created pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 2686, of February 13, 
1997;
(b)
“FLUMITRENS” means Companhia Fluminense de Trens Urbanos, the Borrower’s 
urban train company;
(c)
“Incremental Recurrent Costs” means the incremental costs to the Borrower 
resulting from the carrying out of the Program, such as transfers of funds from the 
Borrower to FLUMITRENS for the payment of salaries and salary-related benefits of 
FLUMITRENS’ staff, and to an eventual concessionaire of FLUMITRENS’ services which may 
be legally authorized and required for the operation of the concession, or any other 
such costs that are acceptable to the Bank;
(d)
“Program Review” means the exchange of views referred to in Section 3.02 
of this Agreement; 
(e)
“Severance Payments” means payments made by the Borrower’s enterprises 
referred to in the description of the Project to their employees being separated under 
a separation program acceptable to the Bank, provided that the financing of such 
payments shall have not been made or guaranteed by the Guarantor or any of the 
Guarantor’s financial agencies; and
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred and fifty million dollars ($250,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of Incremental Recurrent 
Costs and Severance Payments required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Page  3
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 
and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with  appropriate administrative and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1998, exchange views 
with the Bank on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Program and the 
taking of the actions specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the Program Review).
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank and the Guarantor 
on any proposed action to be taken, after the disbursement of the Loan, which may have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Project, or of any action 
taken under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and paragraph 2 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  4
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audit 
referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of 
such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the 
Central Bank of Brazil. Central Bankof Brazil
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly 
registered by the Central Bank of BrazilCentral Bank of Brazil.
Section 6.03. The date June 29, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  5
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda
Rua da Alfândega, 42 - 1( andar
27070-000 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil 
With copy to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K - 5o. andar
Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO
By /s/ Marcello Alencar
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amount of the Loan to such Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
 to be Financed
Incremental Recurrent
250,000,000
100% until the amount
Costs and Severance Payments
of $125,000,000 has been
withdrawn; thereafter,
90%
 ___________
TOTAL
 250,000,000
 ===========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for expenditures 
Page  6
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding $150,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
when the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account shall have reached the amount of $125,000,000, the Bank will authorize further 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in an aggregate amount of up to: (i) $75,000,000, 
only after the Program Review shall have taken place and the Bank shall be satisfied, 
based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that the actions specified in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii) $50,000,000, whenever concession contracts have been signed  for the operation of 
water and sewerage systems in areas of the Borrower’s territory with a total 
population of at least 2,500,000 persons in the aggregate, such contracts to be under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include provisions that the 
operation of such systems shall be in accordance with (A) wastewater treatment targets 
established in a manner  as provided in the Program Letter, and (B) environmental 
obligations de
termined on the basis of environmental audits satisfactory to the Bank, provided that 
the Borrower’s fiscal performance in 1997 was substantially consistent with the 
capital spending program and fiscal indicators set forth in the Program Letter; and 
provided further that the conditions referred to in paragraphs 3, 4, 6, 7 (a) and 8 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and in subparagraph (b) (ii) above shall be considered as 
fulfilled only if the concessionaire of the services or the transferee of the shares 
or assets or the lessee of assets referred to therein, as the case may be, are firms 
that are not part of the Brazilian federal, state or municipal public sector. 
3.
If, after the Program Review, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower 
that any action specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement has not been taken in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, and, within 90 days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved progress satisfactory to the Bank in the taking of 
such action, then the Bank may, by further notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
cancel the amount of the Loan referred to in paragraph 2 (b) (i) above.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures in respect of  Incremental Recurrent 
Costs and Severance Payments, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the achievement of the objectives of 
the Program of enhancing the Borrower’s efficiency in the delivery of public services, 
through privatization of enterprises owned or controlled by the Borrower and the 
concessioning of public services.
The Project consists of the carrying out of activities related to the 
restructuring of FLUMITRENS and the future concession of FLUMITRENS’ services, and the 
restructuring of any other enterprise owned or controlled  by the Borrower, which has 
been agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.
*   *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
Page  7
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
Page  8
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate, 
LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each 
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six months' notice to the Guarantor and 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of 
the notice period unless the Guarantor or the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to 
the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after October 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Category” means the Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services and Incremental Recurrent Costs required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Page  9
and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $50,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the Bank may, at any time, 
modify, by notice to the Borrower, the Authorized Allocation to an amount which, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Bank, shall be the estimated amount of Project 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in the four-month period 
after the date of such notice.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals 
as 
the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the eligible Category, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Page  10
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Program Review
1.
Progress in the liquidation of the assets and liabilities of  Banco do Estado do 
Rio de Janeiro S.A. (a bank owned by the Borrower),  and PREVI-BANERJ (the pension 
fund for the employees of such bank) is occurring in accordance with a plan acceptable 
to the Bank.
2.
ASEP- RJ is operating under an operational structure satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
A contract for the concession of the services of Companhia do Metropolitano do 
Rio de Janeiro (the Borrower’s subway company) has been signed.
4.
A contract for the concession of FLUMITRENS’ services has been signed.
5.
Progress in the liquidation of the assets and liabilities of Companhia de 
Transportes Coletivos (a bus company of the Borrower) and Empresa Estadual de Viação 
(a bus company of the Borrower) is occurring in accordance with a plan acceptable to 
the Bank.
6.
Companhia de Navegação do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (the Borrower’s ferry boat 
company) has had: (a) its services concessioned; or (b) the Borrower’s shares in its 
capital sold.
7.
Companhia de Desenvolvimento Rodoviário e Terminais (the Borrower’s road 
development and bus terminal company) has: (a) had the Borrower’s shares in its 
capital transferred, or the majority of its assets transferred or leased; or (b) had 
the Borrower’s assets transferred to municipalities in the Borrower’s territory; or 
(c) been liquidated.
8.
The majority of the voting shares of the capital of Companhia Estadual do Gás 
(the Borrower’s gas company) has been sold.
Page  11
9.
The Borrower’s fiscal performance in 1997 was substantially consistent with the 
capital spending program and fiscal indicators set forth in the Program Letter.
