RETURN TO
REPORTS DES
WITHIN    ILE                         l
ONE WEEK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. PA-153a
INDONESIA
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 29, 1972
ASIA PROJECTS DEPARTMENT
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                 s          Rp 415
Rp 1                 =          US$ 0.0024
Rp 1 million         5          US$ 2,410
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)            =          10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)          =          0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)             100 ha = 0.39 square miles
i kilogram (kg)           5          2.20 pounds
1,000 kg                  5          1 metric ton = 0.98 long ton
1 picul                   =          60.25 kg = 133 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
A.ZDEC            Asian New Zealand Development Consultants, Ltd.
CORPORATION    = Eastern Indonesia Beef Cattle Development Corporation
DAPTA           = Department of Animal Production and Technical
Assistance, Eastern Indonesia Beef Cattle
Development Corporation
DGLS            = Directorate General of Livestock Services,
Ministry of Agriculture
COV1FR:LMENT    = Government of the Republic of Indonesia
PRC             = People's Republic of China



INDONESIA
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MAIN TEXT
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  ...............................   i-ii
I.     INTP.ODUCTION  ..........................................                                   1
II.      BACKGROUND  ............................................                                    2
A.     General  ..........................................                                  2
B.     The  Livestock  Industry  ...........................                               3
introduction  ...................................                               3
Livestock  Development  ..........................                               4
Livestock  Supporting  Services  ..................                              4
C.     Credit  Facilities  to  the  Livestock  Industry  ......                            5
Institutional Credit ...........................    5
Sumba  Contract  Scheme  ..........................                              6
III.      THE  PROJECT  ...........................................                                   7
A.   General Features .................................                                     7
B.   Detailed Features ................................                                     7
Development of Corporation Ranches .............                                 7
Development  Features  ...........                ..       ..............        3
Development  of  Private  Ranches  ...... ..                      .........    10
Consultant Services for Project Preparation ....   10
C.     Organization  and  Management  ........ ..                      ............       10
Development  of  Corporation  Ranches  ...... .......                          10
Development  of  Private  Ranches  ...... ..                     .........     12
D.     Cost  Estimates  ...................................                               12
E.     Financing  ........................................                                14
Development  of  Corporation  Ranches  ......                      .......    14
Development  of  Private  Ranches  ...... ..                     .........     14
Consultant Services for Project Preparation ....   14
F.     Procurement  ......................................                                15
Development  of  Corporation  Ranches  ...... .......                          15
Development  of  Private  Ranches  ...... ..                     .........     15
Consultant Services for Project Preparation ....   15
G.     Disbursement  .....................................                                16
H.     Accounting  and  Auditing  Covenants  .......                        .........     16
This report was prepared by Messrs. C.E. Eugenio, R. Khouri and S. Silbiger.



-2-
Main Text (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, AND
PRODUCER BENEFITS .......     .........................  16
A.   Production ......................                    16
B.  Markets and Marketing .....      ....................  17
Export Market ..............                       17
Domestic Market ..............                     18
C.   Producer  Benefits   .............................   18
V.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....    ............  18
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....    ..........  19
ANNEXES
1.  The Indonesian Livestock Industry
Appendix 1-1 - Livestock Population
Appendix 1-2 - Animal Disease Situation in Indonesia, 1970
and 1971
Appendix 1-3 - Organization Chart of the Directorate General
of Livestock Services (TJorld Bank - 6795)
2.  Pasture Improvement on Corporation Ranches
3.  Proposed Duties and Responsibilities of Key Units and Officials of
the Eastern Indonesia Beef Cattle Development Corporation
Appendix 3-1 - Chart of Organization of the Eastern Indonesia
Beef Cattle Development Corporation (W.orld
Bank - 6748)
4.  The Bank Rakjat Indonesia
Appendix 4-1 - Consolidated Balance Sheets, Actual and Projected,
1968 to 1973
Appendix 4-2 - Consolidated Income Statements, Actual and
Projected, 1968 to 1973
5.  Estimated Project Cost
Appendix 5-1 - Estimate of Development Costs of a 12,000-Ha
Ranch in South Sulawesi
Appendix 5-2 - Estimate of Developnent Costs of a 12,000-Ha
Ranch in Sumba
Appendix 5-3 - Estimated Headquarters Investment Cost (Corporation)



-3-
6.   Projected Balance Sheet of the Eastern Indonesia Beef Cattle Development
Corporation at Year's End of First 14 Years of Development
Appendix 6-1 - Projected Statement of Income of the Eastern
Indonesia Beef Cattle Development Corporation,
Year 5 to Year 14 of the Project
Appendix 6-2 - Projected Statement of Receipts and Disbursements
of the Eastern Indonesia Beef Cattle
Development Corporation During the First 14
Years of Development
7.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.   Cattle and Beef Marketing in Indonesia
Appendix S-1 - Cattle Numbers Imported into Hlong Kong, 1962 to 1971
Appendix 8-2 - Annual Per Capita Consumption in Hong Kong, 1962
to 1969
Appendix 8-3 - Average Wholesale Price (CIF) of Cattle in Hong Kong
9.   Estimated Financial Rate of Return from Investments and Operations
of the Eastern Indonesia Beef Cattle Development Corporation
Appendix 9-1 - Pasture Development Program of a 12,000-Ha
Breeding/Fattening Ranch in South Sulawesi
Appendix 9-2 - Herd Development Projection for a 12,000-Ha
Breeding/Fattening Ranch in South Sulawesi
Appendix 9-3 - Projected Sales and Operating Costs of a 12,000-Ha
Breeding/Fattening Ranch in South Sulawesi
Appendix 9-4 - Pasture Development Program of a 12,000-Ha
Breeding/Fattening Ranch in Sumba
Appendix 9-5 - Herd Development Projection for a 12,000-Ha
Breeding/Fattening Ranch in Sumba
Appendix 9-6 - Projected Sales and Operating Costs of a 12,000-Ha
Breeding/Fattening Ranch in Sumba
Appendix 9-7 - Operating Costs - Corporation Headquarters
10. Estimated Rate of Return to the Economy






INDONESIA
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the Indonesian economy and improved
performance in the sector is vital to Indonesia's growth and economic
stability. Fortunately, there is great potential for bringing about
significant increase in agricultural output by introducing modern techno-
logy and, in areas outside Java and Bali (these outer islands represent more
than 90% of the country's total land area), by putting extensive areas of
idle land into production.
ii.       The development of land resources is an important part of
Indonesia's overall development strategy and it is in line with that effort
that the Government of Indonesia has requested IDA assistance in financing
a cattle project that it hopes will be a first step toward development of
a livestock industry for the less populated areas of Indonesia.
iii.      The proposed Project is a long-term development program that will
introduce modern ranching technology to increase beef cattle production,
mainly for export. It is to this market that the livestock (beef cattle)
subsector must look at present, not only because of the generally low pur-
chasing power of Indonesians, but because of Indonesia's urgent need for
foreign exchange. Major components of the Project are:
(a) Development of seven parastatal breeding/fattening ranches,
and
(b) Development of private ranches through a "start-up" directed
credit program that will provide finance and technical
assistance to about 40 small- and medium-sized beef cattle
producers, able and willing to absorb new technology and,
thus, serve as demonstrators to others.
In addition, under the Project, Government will hire consultants to prepare
other livestock development projects that will further promote Indonesia's
long-term plans for the subsector.
iv.       The Project will cost about US$7.2 million equivalent, of which
approximately US$3.0 million equivalent, or 42% will be foreign exchange
requirement. Investments will be in machinery and equipment, water facilities,
fencing, pasture establishment and improvement, ranch constructions and yards
for better management of animals, and laborers' housing.
v.        A Government-owned corporation will be established to manage
the parastatal ranches. Such an organization should be able to attract the
most able and qualified staff and conduct operations in a business-like
manner. Key officials will be the Executive Assistant, and Ranch Managers,
who will be expatriates, since beef cattle production expertise is not now



- ii -
available in Indonesia. Qualified Indonesians, however, will be appointed
as their assistants. They will undergo on-ranch training immediately (if
possible, during the first year of the Project) in a country with advanced
technology in tropical pasture, ranch management, and ley farming (farming
involving grassland husbandry rotated with crop husbandry), so that they
will be able to replace the expatriate technicians as soon as possible.
vi.       The credit program through which development of private ranches
will be undertaken will probably commence in the third or fourth year of
the Project, with operations based on techniques and methods proven
successful on the Corporation ranches. In this way, advanced beef cattle
production technology will be transferred to the private sector. The Depart-
ment of Animal Production and Technical Assistance (DAPTA) will render
technical assistance (investment planning and supervision) to private ranches
while Government, through the Bank Rakjat Indonesia (a Government-owned bank)
or other approved channel, will provide the credit.
vii.      All procurement by the Corporation in excess of US$25,000 under
a single contract will be subject to international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts will be bulked to permit inter-
national bidding whenever possible. Such contracts will likely be for
fencing materials, pasture seeds, fertilizers, watering equipment, and
machinery and equipment.  In the case of procurement involving less than
US$25,000 equivalent, normal commercial channels will be used. International
firms have adequate representation in Indonesia to ensure effective competition
and after-sales service.
viii.     The principal justification for the Project is that it provides
through research and demonstration for the adaption of advanced livestock
production technology to Indonesian conditions. But even without this
benefit, and charging the costs of developing the new technology to the
Project as an investment just to increase production, the return to the
economy would be 10-12%.
ix.       With appropriate assurances, the proposed Project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$3.6 million under usual IDA terms. The recommended
credit will finance 50% of the estimated cost (para iv) of the proposed
Project; the balance will be contributed by Government (49%) and private
ranches (1%).



INDONESIA
BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (Government) has requested IDA
assistance in financing a beef cattle development project (Project) in the
Provinces of South Sulawesi and East Nusa Tenggara in Eastern Indonesia
(see Map). The Project was prepared by the Asian New Zealand Development
Consultants Ltd. (ANZDEC) under New Zealand Government aid and in close
collaboration with the IDA Resident Staff in Indonesia. This will be the
first livestock project financed by IDA in Indonesia.
1.02      To date, there have been ten IDA credits granted for agriculture
projects in Indonesia: four are for rehabilitation of Government-owned
estates; four for rehabilitation of irrigation systems; and a credit each
for a fisheries project and a seeds project. Delays in effectiveness and,
following this, in appointing management advisors and visiting inspectors
under the First and Second Agricultural Estates Project (Cr. 155-IND and
194-IND) have resulted in project implementation being approximately one year
behind schedule.  A timetable of specific improvements and managerial changes
is being discussed with Government. The Third Agricultural Estates Project
(Cr. 259-IND) became effective in December, 1971 and progress to date is
satisfactory. The Fourth Agricultural Estate Project effectiveness has been
delayed due to difficulties in appointing state inspectors and an executive
assistant. It is now expected to become effective January 31, 1973. Work
on the First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 127-IND) is proceeding
well, and disbursements are on schedule. The Second Irrigation Renabilitation
Project (Cr-. 195-IND), although currently behind schedule, is expected to be
completed on time. On the Third Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 220-IND),!
planning and design are completed and construction is progressing. However,
the project is behind schedule and costs are higher than anticipated at
appraisal. The Fourth Irrigation Project (Cr. 289-IND) became effective in
May 1972 and planning and design commenced in June 1972. At the time of
appraisal of all the irrigation rehabilitation projects a sensitivity
analysis was carried out allowing for a 2-year delay in construction. In
no case did the economic rate of return drop below 20%. Design and
construction of the Fisheries Project (Cr. 211-IND) have been delayed by
about one year, because of delays in completion of a master plan to develop
the project site, and disbursements have been accordingly set back; the
master plan is now ready and prospects for successful project implementation
look good. Progress of the seed project has been delayed due to slow
provision of funds by Government and slow procurement procedures. Remedial
action has been taken by Government and the project is now expected to
progress satisfactorily.
1.03      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which
visited Indonesia in January/February 1972. The Mission was composed of
Messrs. C.E. Eugenio, R. Khouri, and S. Silbiger (IDA), and Mr. P.J. Skerman,
Australian Consultant on Tropical Pastures.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Agriculture is the mainstay of the Indonesian economy.  More than
70% of the country's population of around 121 million (1970) depends on the
sector for a livelihood and it contributes approximately 50% of GNP and
about 60% of all exports (including oil). Imports of food products (mainly
rice and wheat flour) averaged about US$90 million annually from 1965 to
1970, or approximately 13% of the total.
2.02      Total agricultural (and food) production has shown gains during
1957 to 1969 but, on the whole, have failed to keep pace with population
growth (1952-56 = 100) 1/:
Total Agri.    Per Capita    Total Food   Per Capita
Production    Agri. Prodn.   Production   Food Prodn.
1957-61             109             98            111            100
1964-66             121             95            124             96
1967-71             131             93            135             96
Since 1968, major attention has been devoted to achieving self-sufficiency
in rice. Production incentives and credit, improved seeds, fertilizer, and
pesticides provided on a relatively large scale under various food intensifi-
cation programs, have brought about significant increases in total food
output.
2.03      Per capita dietary levels are low.  Daily calorie intake is esti-
mated at around 1,800, about two-thirds of which is supplied by rice, while
per capita protein consumption is estimated at about 40 grams daily, around
6 of which is in the form of animal protein. Government's objective is to
achieve, within the next five to 10 years, a daily per capita intake of
around 2,000 calories, including about 55 grams of protein, one-third to be
animal protein. The Government's Five-Year Development Plan, covering 1969
to 1973, sets targets for increasing meat production by 100%, egg production
by 350%, and milk production by 250%.
2.04      Agricultural production is low in relation to the country's potential
and has been limited by many factors: the gr2at disparity in the distribution
of population (ranging from 400 to 600 per km , respectively, in Bali and
Java; from 40 to 50 per km2 in Sumatra, Sulawesi, and East Nusa Tenggara;
1/   Source:  FAQ Mpnthly Bulletin of Agricultural Economics and Statistics -
January 1972.



- 3-
and down to 2 per km2 ln West Irian) -/; the very small and fragmented
landholdings in the densely populated regions where very intensive rice
culture predominates; and, the limitations of the physical environment and lack
of infrastructure in large parts of the outer islands where developments have
been confined largely to estate agriculture based on tree crops and mixed
smallholder developments based largely on shifting cultivation of rice and
subsistence crops combined with perennial tree crops.
2.05      ImDroved performance in the agricultural sector is vital to
Indonesia's growth and economic stability. Fortunately, there is
great potential for bringing about significant increases in agricultural
outputs. This can be done to some extent through further intensification
in Java and Bali but such efforts are not likely to do more than to main-
tain current levels of per capita output in view of the rapidly growing
population. An important thrust will have to be in the outer islands where
vast areas of grassland and forest land remain relatively underutilized.
Development of these areas will require considerable infrastructure and
on-farm investments.
B. The Livestock Industry (Annex 1)
Introduction
2.06      The livestock industry's contribution to the economy has been
primarily to provide draft power, with livestock products accounting for
only some 3% of GNP and less than 2% of all exports (para 2.01).  Although
in recent vears a few large commercial enterprises have been organized (with
some already operating), most livestock production is still carried out on
smallholdings. Poultry, pigs, and small ruminants are raised mainly as
family "side" undertakings (for subsistence and for marketing any surplus);
cattle and buffaloes are kept as draft animals for crop cultivation and
transport, with meat as a by-product. An exception would be in East and West
Nusa Tenggara and the Sulawesi Provinces where cattle, besides those for
work purposes, are kept to produce beef from available natural grassland.
2.07      Under the circumstances, it is understandable that little emphasis,
if any, has been placed on improving the feeding and management of livestock,
and production has suffered accordingly. Figures available at the Milinistry
of Agriculture show that the yearly number of animals and birds slaughtered
during 1968 to 1970 declined significantly from that of 1967. Throughout
these years, livestock population did not increase.
1/   There is a Government program underway to resettle people from Java
and Bali to sparsely populated areas such as Sumatra, Kalimantan, and
Sulawesi. Likewise, investments outside Java are encouraged through
tax incentives, guarantees to protect capital tenure, etc.



-4-
Livestock Development
2.03      Livestock development in Indonesia is important from several
points of view: (a) to encourage diversification of agriculture by develop-
ment of substantial areas now in grass or forest; (b) to provide the addi-
tional draft power needed for further intensification of cropping in dense':
settled areas and, more importantly, for the develonment of new areas in tle
outer islands, and (c) to increase the production of low cost animal protain
(primarily from poultry and small livestock) in the densely ponulated areas
for domestic consumption. Some grasslands are found under conditions of
soil, topography, or climate that would allow only pastoral cattle developr.ent
however, there are considerable areas which can be developed into pro0luctive
mixed farms producing combinations of annual crops, perennial crops and
livestock. An important element in such developments will be to develop local
sources of cattle to provide at least part of draft power recuirements simul-
taneously with livestock production. In additicn, many areas nave relatively
poor soils wlhich are only suitable for ranchin,, or which have to be put
through a pasture legume phase before farming becomes feasible.
Livestock Supporting Services
2.09      Government Livestock Services.  The Directorate General of Live-
stock Services (DGLS) of the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for
the formulation and implementation of Government policy in the livestock
subsector. Four "directorates", or divisions, deal with planning, produc-
tion promotion, extension, and research.
2.10       Provincial veterinary inspectors (college graduates) are in charge
of coordinating the work of the veterinary and field staffs (elementary
sclhool graduates with one to three years technical training) at the district,
subdistrict, and village levels.  Field workl involves, in the main, animal
health control (vaccination campaigns, investig,ations of disease outbreaks
treatment of diseased animals, and supervision of cattle holding grounds
and quarantine stations); control of abattoirs and meat inspection; and
management of the "Sumba Contract Scheme" (para 2.17).  Animal health control
efforts are hampered by lack of vehicles and facilities (e.g. refri-
geration for vaccines and diagnostic laborator-ies).  Holding grounds and
quarantine stations are inadequate and their improvenent must be given
priority before efforts in livestock develonmenrt begin to involve the
private sector heavily, possibly in a second-paase project.
2.11       In general, it a-pears thnat professional staff work.- suffers bec;luse
too muclb time is being spent on administrative matters of little professional
relevance (comnilation of statistical data and such); also, professionals
are young and lacking in experience. A serious problem is the low salaries
paid staff at all levels, which has forced many to find additional sources
of income (operating small comumercial poultry units, acting as representatives
of pharmaceutical firms and such) to supple7ienc their meager pay.
2.12      Researcl.  Present governmenit efforts in livestock research are
minimal and ineffective, the main reasons bein,, the continuing shortage of



- 5 -
facilities, staff, and funds. The Institute of Animal Disease Research in
Bogor and the Institute of Virology in Surabaja, both under the responsibility
of DGLS, perform little research and tihat which is undertaken is mainly
concerned with the production and quality control of biologicals.  The Institute
of Animal Hlusbandry Research at Bogor, responsible for animal production
research, has carried out very few trials (it has only seven professionals
on its staff) and whatever it has accomplished appears to be of little
assistance to the livestock industry. Some research is carried out through
university staff and students, but it is insignificant.
2.13      Education.  Training standards in veterinary medicine and animal
husbandry have suffered, not only because of the chronic shortage of funds
and facilities, but also because there are few employment opportunities for
graduates, a reflection of the present low state of the livestock industry.
Most graduates of the four universities that offer training in veterinary
medicine go to work for DGLS, the Indonesian Army, and municipalities.
Some 14 faculties (most of them of recent establishment) give courses in
animal husbandry. All, however, are lacking in library facilities and stock
and land for teaching and demonstration, and teaching is generally carried
out on a part-time basis by veterinarians. Training in farm management,
production economics, livestock feeding, and production techniques are also
inadequate and the student graduates are poorly equipped. Again, employment
opportunities are mainly with Government since few livestock or allied
industries exist.
C. Credit Facilities to the Livestock Industrv
Institutional Credit
2.14      The lack of long-term credit has been a major constraint to the
development of the livestock industry. This lack, of course, is a conse-
quence of the inflationary situation that has existed in Indonesia for the
last two decades. Because of the general scarcity of capital resources,
Indonesia adopted a policy that called for banks to take care of the needs
of only those projects that would produce immediate benefits to the economy.
It was not until 1970 that Government-owned banks (Bank Rakjat Indonesia,
Bank Bumi Daya, Bank Ekspor-Impor Indonesia, Bank Negara Indonesia, and
Bank Dagang Indonesia) 1/, which are the principal institutional sources
of credit for agriculture, began to grant long-term loans for livestock
development. In that year, a total of approximately Rp 230 million (USS0.6
million) was granted to the subsector (figures for Government-owned banks
are the only ones available), and by November 1971, outstanding long-term
1/   Government has designated specific Government-owned banks as lenders
to particular sectors: for instance, Bank Rakjat Indonesia for agri-
culture, fisheries, cooperatives, and rural development credit; and
Bank Bumi Daya for estate agriculture and forestry credits. A bank
may, however, continue to service the needs of all clients even though
financing would be in a sector other than the one in which it has
designated responsibility.



-6-
loans had almost doubled to Rp 405 million (about US$1 million), still a
mere 2% of all long-term loans to agriculture. The short-term lending
picture is better:  at the end of November 1971, outstanding livestocl
production loans in Government-owmed banks (only statistics available) were
about Rp 2,933 million (US$7.2 million), a threefold gain over that at the
end of 1969. This reflects Government's current policy to increase assis-
tance to agricultural production, generally, and the fact that more credit
is needed to su?port growing Indonesian livestock exports, principally to
Hlon- Kong (para 4.02).
2.15      The interest rates that credit institutions charge on loans reflect
priorities set by Government on scarce loanable funds as well as the high
cost of deposit funds (savings deposits are paid from 15%. to 13% p.a.).
Interest rates have ranged from 6% to 9% per month (72% to 103% p.a.) in
1966 (the end of the hyper-inflationary era) to the present 1% to 4% per
month (12% to 43% p.a.).  Short-term loans to agriculture (including live-
stock and fisheries) currently carry 2.25% interest per month (27% p.a.)
while long-termi loans cost 1% per month (12% p.a.) 1/. According to banking
practice, interest is collected monthly. For the present, Bank Indonesia
(the Indonesian central bank) has decreed that no long-term loans for
agricultural investment can be granted at maturities of more than five years,
but it is hoped that these terms will ease as the Indonesian financial
situation improves.
2.16      Government-owned banks, within credit line limits, have ready
access to the rediscounting facilities of Bank Indonesia, a facility that
private banks do not enjoy. Short-term rediscounts are charged one-half of
the on-lending rate that banks charge their customers, while long-term
rediscounts are set at a fixed 4% p.a.
Sumba Contract Scheme
2.17      Some 45 years ago, the Dutch, to increase the number of cattle
owfners among smallholders, introduced what is now known as the "Sumba
Contract". Under this scheme, a successful smallholder applicant is given
a number of cows and one bull and is required to return, after five years,
the same number of animals, plus a proportion of the increase. Sometimes,
this proportion is equal to the number originally received (roughly, there-
fore, 15% p.a. compounded annually to the smallholder) and sometimes it
is less.
2.18      The Sumba Ccntract Scheme is administered by the provincial staff
of DCLS with the help of the district administration. The demand for cattle
has always exceeded the supply (surplus cows and bulls are purchased from
private sources) and, consequently, the number of cattle given successful
applicants varied from province to province, and even within provinces.
Record-keeping is poor -- no records of the number of animals involved are
maintained, much less data on births, deaths, and such.
1/   In 1971, the officially published rate of inflation was 2.4%.  However, it
is estimated that a rate of about 4% would be more accurate.



- 7 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Features
3.01      The Project is intended to introduce modern ranching technology to
increase beef production and is expected to be the forerunner of projects to
develop Indonesia's potential in the subsector. Major components of the
Project are:
(a) development of seven breeding/fattening ranches, six in South
Sulawesi and one in Sumba, by a whlolly-owned Government
corporation, "The Eastern Indonesia Beef Cattle Development
Corporation" 1/ (P. T. Bina Ternak), or Corporation; and
(b) development of private ranches through a "start-up" credit
program that will provide finance and technical assistance
to about 40 medium- and small-sized private beef cattle
producers, able and willing to absorb new production techno-
logy. This program is intended to begin about the fourth
year of the Project when initial results from the operation
of the Corporation ranches can be evaluated.
Amounts are also provided in the Project to finance consultant services for
identification and preparation of further possible livestock development
projects elsewhere in Indonesia, in conformity with the Government's develop-
ment program in the subsector.
B. Detailed Features
Development of Corporation Ranches
Ranch Sites
3.02      The proposed areas for development in South Sulawesi will involve
about 72,000 ha (six ranches of about 12,000 ha each), located principally
in the districts of Enrekang and Wadjo in the northern part of the Province,
close to the port of Pare-Pare (see Map). A survey by ANZDEC involving about
17,000 ha of the total area characterizes the terrain as predominantly (about
80%) rolling and undulating (slopes range 2° to 120). The same survey showed
that half the proposed sites were suitable for intensive to semi-intensive
pastoralism (pasture establishment and improvement by oversowing and top-
dressing and, in some cases, cultivation to provide supplementary feed), and
that the potential carrying capacity would range from 0.6 to 1.2 animal units
(A.U.) per ha. Annual rainfall is about 2,000 mm with a short dry season.
3.03      The proposed 12,000-ha ranch in Sumba will be located in the
district of Kabaroe (see Map). About two-thirds of the area is level and
undulating (slope range, from 0° to 50) and should be suitable for intensive
1/   Following completion of this report the Corporation was redesignated
"The Livestock Development Corporation."



-8-
to semi-intensive pastoralism. The rest is rolling terrain (slope range
from 5% to 12%) suitable for extensive ranching, having a potential carrying
capacity of about 0.4 to 0.8 A.U. per ha. Annual rainfall is from 800 mm to
1,200 mm with a prolonged dry season.
3.04      At present, small scattered areas are under shifting cultivation
and some land is used by villagers to graze their cattle.  In all the
proposed areas, existing population is small and no land tenure problem is
expected. In general, the soils and topography of the proposed ranch
sites are not good for intensive crop production unless suitable systems or
crop/pasture rotation can be developed. According to the Land Reform Law oL
1961, they are classified as Government Land available for lease for speci.fied
purposes. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government w 111
grant grazing rights to land needed by the Corporation for ranch sites urnder
the Project at about 24,000 ha annually in South Sulawesi during the first
three years of the Corporation's existence; in Sumba, about 12,000 ha should
be provided no later than the second year. The granting to the Corporatior of
leases for the 24,000 ha of land required for the first two ranches is a
condition of credit effectiveness. Ranch sites will be determined (from the
general area proposed; para 3.02) by the Corporation upon recommendation of
the Executive Assistant (para 3.16).
Development Features
3.05      During the first three years, two ranches will be established everv
year in South Sulawesi; the one ranch in Sumba will be established in Year 2.
This schedule will permit economical use of machinery, equipment, and pe--
sonnel and will also allow ample time for training manpower. Because this
is the first project of its kind in Indonesia, the early years of developmenc
will, of necessity, be devoted to resolving certain technical problems (e.g.,
the nature of the response to pasture improvement practices, the performance
of indigenous cattle under improved levels and methods of feeding, and the
possibilities of crop pasture rotation) 1/.  Accordingly, investments are
expected to extend over a five-year period for each ranch, so that total
disbursements will be spread over seven years.
3.06      Each ranch will be about 12,000 ha in area and will be planned
and managed to build up to a breeding herd of some 2,000 to 2,303 cows at
full production (in Year 12), bringing total herd size to about 8,000 to
10,000 head. The extraction rate in fat catzle and surplus breeding stock
is expected to be around 20% p.a. The performance of indigenous cattle will
first be improved by better feeding, management, selection and disease control
and, possibly, later on, after the productive potential of the breeds have
been assessed, by crossbreeding with Brahman or Brahford bulls. Crossbreeding
of Ongole cattle in the island of Sumba is prohibited by regulations (origi-
nally promulgated by the Dutch to keep the purtty of the Ongole breed),
but assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government will
allow it under controlled conditions upon request of the Corporation. Im-
proved feeding and nutrition will be achieved by rotational grazing, using
1/   Largely by adapting livestock and mixed farming technology developed in
advanced tropical countries (e.g. Northerrn Australia) to Indonesian
conditions.



- 9 -
paddock fencing; by improving pastures on about 60% of each ranch's area with
legumes; and, in Sumba, by conserving surplus feed as hay for dry-period
feeding. All cattle will be managed in organized herds according to sex and
age. Central cattle handling yards will facilitate separating cattle into
groups, weighing and selecting for disposal, drenching and spraying, and
castrating. Funds will be provided to purchase drugs, vaccines, and chemicals
for the prevention and treatment of diseases (this could complement a planned
FAO/UNDP project aimed at improving animal health services in the Project
area). Until the breeding herd is large enough to utilize the entire available
pastures (about Year 10), unfinished local steers will be purchased for
fattening to consume surplus feed. An area of about 200 to 250 ha on each
ranch will be devoted to pasture and crop trials and, on one ranch, an
area of about 50 to 100 ha will also be devoted to seed production, mainly
Siratro and Centro. Consultant services will be employed in the pasture
and crop trials (this may be done as an extension of a pasture improvement
program being conducted by the Queensland University (Australia) under the
Australian-Indonesia Universities Cooperation Scheme). Annex 2 is a
discussion of the pasture improvement program under the Project.
3.07      To ensure adequate management of pastures and cattle, each ranch
will be fenced and subdivided into 1,000 - to 1,500-ha blocks (subdivision
would take into account water sources) to permit efficient use of different
types of land by cattle of different sex, age, and type, and to allow
possible future subdivision into smaller ranches.  About 100 km of fencing
will be erected per ranch. Where practicable, "live" fences (small trees
planted close together) will be used to cut down on costs.
3.08      Water development investments will include facilities for pumping
water from permanent streams to storage tanks, hydraulic rams, dam construc-
tion and enlargement of existing water holes, whenever possible.
3.09      Machinery and equipment for pasture improvement; for maintenance
of firebreaks, trails, and tracks; for animal disease control, and for gen-
eral ranch management and cattle marketing will be provided by the Project.
Among others, these will include four-wheel drive vehicles, pick-up trucks,
tractors, seeders, discs, and harrows, and, in the case of the Sumba ranch,
mowers, a hay rake and baler. Buildings will be limited to storage and
working facilities and staff housing. Whenever possible, on-site construction
materials and labor will be used (workers' houses, for instance, will be made
of bamboo and local palm roofing and constructed by ranch workers). Because
ranches in South Sulawesi will be established on a staggered basis (para 3.05),
machinery and equipment will be transferred from one South Sulawesi ranch
to another for economical use. Radio transceivers will also be provided
to facilitate communication among Corporation units (ranches and general
headquarters) and assurances were obtained during negotiations that Govern-
ment will issue the necessary license or permit for their use and operation.
3.10      Pasture and crop trials (para 3.06) will be aimed at providing
technology for development of private sector ranching and mixed farming and
will include: (a) introducing new and/or improved species of plants; (b)
determining economical fertilizer application rates; (c) developing cheap
methods of land preparation; (d) investigating the possibilities of aerial



- 10 -
sowing and top-dressing; and (e) determining effective means of animal feeding.
Assurances were obtained at negotiation that Government, through DGLS, will
monitor the results of such trials.
Development of Private Ranches
3.11      It is expected that reliable technological results from the opera-
tion of the Corporation's ranches will become available in about two or three
years after starting the Project. Accordingly, a "start-up" credit program
is included in the overall Project to allow the transfer of new found tech-
nology to the private sector. Depending on the development of economic
ranch models satisfactory to IDA (see para 3.21), the credit program is
anticipated to commence about the fourth year of the Project and involve a
small number of selected medium- and small-sized beef cattle producers who
would be able and willing to use new production technology. These farmers
will, on the average, control about 250 to 500 ha of grassland, although a
few, especially in South Sulawesi, will have from 1,000 to 2,000 ha. It is
expected that about 9,000 ha will be involved in the first group of ranches
under the credit program and 15,000 ha in the second.
3.12      Investments will be in pasture establishment and maintenance,
fencing, water and stock handling facilities, machinery and equipment, some
ranch construction, and purchase of feeder steers. In the case of costly
machinery (tractors and such), farmers will be encouraged to pool resources
if the use of local labor and draft animals proves impractical. Feeder steers
will be bought for fattening to utilize excess feed during the initial years
of development.
3.13      Because participating ranchers will be using proven technology
(para 3.11), ranch development is expected to be rapid and investments are
expected to cover a three-year period, or a total of four years for the
entire credit program (from the fourth to the seventh year of the Project).
Consultant Services for Project Preparation
3.14      In line with the Government's long-term development program for
increasing livestock production, the Project will include financing of
consultant services for the preparation of a subsequent project of cattle
development on small- and medium- size ranches in areas ecologically similar
to the areas included in the present Project. Such a project would be based
on significant results obtained from research carried out in the present
Project and suitable to support requests for financial assistance from sources
outside Indonesia.
C. Organization and Management
Development of Corporation Ranches
3.15      Management of the six ranches in South Sulawesi and the one in
Sumba will be entrusted to the Corporation, which, among other things, will
be authorized to borrow money on its own, receive and keep earnings, and
hire the best available staff outside civil service pay scales and procedures.



- 11 -
In accordance with Indonesian law, the interest of the Government as sole
shareholder in the Corporation will be represented by the Minister of Finance
(herein, the Minister of Finance is referred to only in his capacity as
representative of the Government as sole shareholder in the Corporation);
policy determination and implementation will be the responsibility of a
Board of Managing Directors (Direksi), headed by a President-Director. The
members of the Board and the President-Director would be appointed by the
Minister of Finance. Also in conformity with Indonesian law, the Minister
of Finance will name a Board of Supervisors (Dewan Komisaris) to oversee the
activities of the Corporation and to act as its adviser. Assurances were
obtained at negotiation that the members of the Corporation's Board of
Managing Directors would be appointed in consultation with IDA and that at
least one member of the Board of Supervisors would represent DGLS. Likewise,
assurances were obtained that Government will appoint, in consultation with
IDA, a President-Director with adequate experience in running a commercial
enterprise. The actual assumption of duties by the President-Director, the
members of the Board of M4anaging Directors, and the Executive Assistant
(para 3.16) will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
3.16      The Corporation will have at least two departments:  Animal
Production and Technical Assistance (DAPTA) and Administrative and
General Services. DAPTA will be responsible for all applied research
(pasture, fertilizer, animal feeding, crop rotations, and other tests and
trials) and for all activities related to animal and crop production, including
those on the ranches and those connected with the technical assistance re-
quirements of the credit program for private livestock producers (para 3.21).
It will be headed by the President-Director and managed on a day to day basis
by the Executive Assistant to the President-Director. The Executive Assistant
will have extensive training and experience in the management of tropical pastures
and ranches. Because such expertise is not now available in Indonesia, the
Executive Assistant will be appointed from outside the country. The terms
of his appointment and the responsibilities and powers of his position were
discussed and agreed upon at negotiation (Annex 3C). Since, under the Project,
expatriate experts will be replaced by qualified Indonesians as so-n as
practicable, an Indonesian will be appointed as Deputy Executive Assistant.
3.17      Operation of Corporation ranches will be under the immediate
authority and responsibility of DAPTA. Each will be headed by a ranch manager
with satisfactory training and actual experience in managing a tropical ranch.
Since this expertise is not now available in Indonesia, it is intended that
three ranch managers will be recruited from outside the country. Indonesians
will be appointed as Assistant Ranch Managers and will replace the expatriates
as soon as possible. Because the Corporation's seven ranches will be estab-
lished on a staggered basis, an expatriate Ranch Manager will, whenever pos-
sible, be shifted from an already operating ranch to one being established,
or a Ranch Manager might be put in charge of two ranches. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that the Corporation will appoint Ranch
Managers acceptable to IDA and that the duties and responsibilities of their
position will also be satisfactory to IDA. It is expected that Indonesians
with a farm background will be appointed Assistant Ranch Managers.



- 12 -
3.18      As soon as possible - hopefully during the first year of the
Project - the Deputy Executive Assistant and the Assistant Ranch Managers
would be sent for on-ranch training to a country with advanced technology
in tropical pasture, ranch management, and ley farming. The training program
will be the responsibility of the Executive Assistant who will make the
necessary recommendations to the Corporation.
3.19      The Department of Administrative and General Services will be
headed by an Indonesian who has had adequate experience in a commercial
enterprise. Broadly, the Department will be responsible for personnel
management, purchasing and marketing activities, accounting and statistics,
and other functions of a general and administrative nature.
3.20      Annex 3 indicates the proposed responsibilities of the various units
of the Corporation, as well as their relationship to each other.
Development of Private Ranches
3.21      DAPTA will be responsible for providing training to personnel of
DGLS who will in turn provide technical assistance to participating private
beef cattle producers (para 3.16). Based on experience and results obtained
from the operation of the Corporation ranches, DGLS personnel will undertake
the preparation of ranch development plans and supervise their execution.
Government will provide credit assistance through the Bank Rakjat Indonesia
(BRI), or other lending institution satisfactory to the Association. BRI is
currently undergoing modernization with assistance from the Asian Development
Bank. The modernization program is described in Annex 4, paras 13 and 14.
Assurance was obtained at negotiation that Government would ensure that
necessary funds were made available to BRI or other institution approved
by IDA for this sub-project, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Since the credit program for private beef cattle producers is expected to
commence about the fourth year of the Project (para 3.11), it will be
appropriate to formulate detailed lending rules and procedures at about that
time to reflect the current situation and practice (para 2.15). In order
to ensure proper phasing and operation of the credit program, it is a
condition of disbursement for this part of the Project that IDA agrees
that the form and conditions of agricultural loan agreement are acceptable,
the provision for extension services is adequate, and the technical results
of the Corporation sufficiently advanced to ensure the success of the
private sector program.
D. Cost Estimates
3.22      The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$7.2 million
(Rp 2,968 million), of which approximately US$3.0 million (Rp 1,260 million),
or 42%, represents foreign exchange requirements. Estimated Project costs
are summarized as follows (differences due to rounding):



- 13 -
Total Project Cost
Rp Millions                 US$ Thousands          X/
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   FEC-
Development of
Corporation Ranches
Pasture Develop-
ment ...........  132.8   448.2       581.0    320.0  1,080.0  1,400.0   77
Fencing   ..........  16.6    45.6       62.2     40.0    110.0    150.0   73
Watering
Facilities  .....  20.8    95.5       116.3     50.0    230.0    280.0   82
Machinery, Equip-
ment and such ..   14.5   105.8       120.3     35.0    255.0    290.0   88
Buildings and such   58.1    15.0        74.1    140.0      40.0    180.0   22
Livestock
Purchases ...... 705.5       8.3      713.8  1,700.0      20.0  1,720.0    1
Labor ............  286.4      -        286.4    690.0       -      690.0    -
Training Costs  ...   -       10.4       10.4       -       25.0     25.0  100
Technical
Assistance /2 ...   34.9   199.2      234.1     84.0    480.0    564.0   85
Other Expend-
itures .........  170.2    83.0      253.2    410.0    200.0    610.0   33
Contingencies  .... 134.7   108.5       243.2    325.0    260.0    585.0   44
Sub-total        1,574.5 1120.5   2,695.0  3,794.0  2,700.0  6,494.0   42
Development of
Private Ranches
Pasture Develop-
ment ...........  29.3    46.2         75.4     70.5    111.3    181.8   61
Fencing ..........  18.3    41.9         60.2     44.1    100.9    145.0   70
Watering
Facilities  .....   8.6    24.3        32.9     20.8      58.6     79.4   74
Machinery, Equip-
ment and such ..    7.1      8.9       16.0     17.0      21.5     38.5   56
Buildings and such   34.6       -        34.6     83.4        -      83.4    -
Livestock
Purchases ......  40.7        -        40.7     98.0        -      98.0    -
Other Expend-
itures .........  13.4       3.2       16.6     32.2      7.7      39.9   19
Sub-total ......  152.0   124.5       276.4    366.0    300.00   666.0   45
Total Project Cost..1,726.5 1,245.0   2,971.4  4,160.0  3,000.0 7,160. 0
/1   Foreign Exchange Cost.
/2   Including US$180,000 equivalent for consultants services for project
preparation (para 3.30).
Detailed estimates are shown in Annex 5. Given the small and simple nature
of project works and the firm estimates for physical requirements, no physical
contingencies are included. A contingency of 10% of the total cost of the



- 14-
corporation ranches is included to cover price increases due to inflation.
This is based on a local inflation rate of about 4% per annum in line with
recent experience in Indonesia and about 5% per annum to cover inflation in
countries of likely foreign supplies.
E. Financing
3.23      Financing would be shared in the following amounts and proportions:
Total
Producers     Government         IDA        (100%)
US$'000       US$'000  %    US$'000   %   US$'000
Development of
Corporation Ranches ..    -      -    3,110.0  52   2,800.0  48   5,910.0
Development of
Private Ranches   ......   66   10         300  45     300.0  45      666.0
Technical Assistance
Including Staff Training  -      -        84.0  14     500    86      584.0
Total .............    66.0  1    3,485.0  49   3,600.0  50   7,160.0
Development of Corporation Ranches
3.24      In the setting up of the Corporation the Government will make its
own contribution in the form of a loan. Further, Government will apply
$3.2 million of the credit to the Corporation partly as a loan and partly as
equity, split so as to make the debt/equity ratio of the Corporation 60:40.
Government loan funds will carry an interest rate of 12% per annum for a term
of 20 years including a grace period of 10 years. Agreement on these
conditions was reached at negotiation.
Development of Private Ranches
3.25      On average, livestock producers will contribute (in cash, labor
and such) about 10% of the investment requirements of their projects; the
rest will be financed by a loan from BRI (para 3.21) out of a fund to be
made up of approximately equal contributions from Government resources
and the proposed IDA credit. Government commitment as to its contribution
was obtained during negotiations.
Consultant Services for Project Preparation
3.26      The credit will finance 100% of the estimated foreign exchange cost
of preparation of further livestock development projects elsewhere in
Indonesia and 100% of overseas training costs of local technicians.



- 15 -
F. Procurement
Development of Corporation Ranches
3.27      Assurance were obtained at negotiation that any procurement contract
in excess of US$25,000 for machinery, equipment, and materials would be subject
to international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Bulking of contracts will be done as much as possible and will likely be in
such items as fencing materials (around US$100,000), pasture seeds (about
US$650,000), fertilizers (around US$450,000), vehicles (about US$110,000),
watering equipment (approximately US$250,000), and machinery and equipment
(about US$160,000). For the latter two categories, since international firms
(Toyota, Mitsubishi, Honda, International Harvester, Ford, Mercedes Benz,
Caterpillar, John Deere, General Motors of Australia, Willys, Siemens,
Phillips) have adequate local representation to ensure effective competition
and after-sales service, and since contracts are relatively small, advertise-
ment of such contracts would, at the option of the Government, be limited to
newspapers of general circulation in Indonesia. Procurement involving less
than US$25,000 will be-from local suppliers subject to domestic competitive
bidding or prudent shopping whichever shall be most appropriate to obtain a
competitive price. Private contractors are available for civil construction
(buildings, structures, and such) and development of water supplies. The
latter works are small and geographically scattered and will not be subject
to international competitive bidding.
3.28      Under current Indonesian law, imported goods for official aid
projects are exempted from taxes and duties. Local manufacturers would be
eligible for preference of 15% or the level of custom duties, whichever
is lower. There are no preferential import duty arrangements favoring any
country for goods procured under the Project.
Development of Private Ranches
3.29      All procurement under this subproject will be by individual bor-
rowers through normal commercial channels since the variety of items to
be procured, the relatively small size of individual purchases and contracts,
and the phasing of loans to subborrowers and their investments (paras 3.11
to 3.13) will render bulking for international tendering impractical. As
stated previously (para 3.27), the number of competitive local suppliers
(including those representing international firms) is adequate to ensure
competition and satisfactory after-sales service.
Consultant Services for Project Preparation
3.30      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that
the consultants engaged under this subproject will be acceptable to IDA and
shall be engaged upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Likewise, Government also gave assurances that the terms of reference estab-
lished will be satisfactory to IDA.



- 16 -
G. Disbursement
3.31      Investments in each Corporation ranch are expected to cover five
years (para 3.05). Since the proposed seven ranches will be developed in
groups during a span of three years (para 3.05), IDA disbursements are
expected to cover about seven years. The credit program to private producers
will take place during the fourth and fifth years of the Project and,
because the investment period for a private ranch is expected to cover three
years, disbursements will be made through the seventh year of the Project.
Against appropriate documents that it may require, IDA will reimburse:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures, 95% of local expenditures
ex-factory and 83% of other local expenditures (off the
shelf) for development of corporation ranches;
(b)  50% of amounts disbursed in the development of private
ranches;
(c)  40% of total project expenditures on livestock;
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and
staff training.
H.  Accounting and Auditing Covenants
3.32      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that the Corporation's accounting system will be set up by an accounting
firm acceptable to IDA and that the Corporation's accounts will be audited
by an independent firm, also acceptable to IDA.
IV. PRODUCTION, lARKETS AND MARKETING, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
4.01      While the Project's principal objective is the adaptation of advanced
livestock production techniques developed elsewhere, its production should
be adequate to sustain the Corporation financially. Project production will
be mainly fattened steers, principally for export. Breeding heifers and
bulls would also be produced which would in part be kept to build up the
ranches' breeding herd (in the early years of the Project) and, as surpluses
occur, to sell to private cattle producers and to farmers as draft animals.
During herd build up, the major part of steers exported will come from
fattened purchased steers (para 3.06). However, beginning about Year 14,
when animal numbers in all Corporation ranches have been stabilized, about



- 17 -
9,000 steers for export (approximately 15% of present export numbers and
equivalent to about 1,700 tons of carcass beef); 1,000 tons of carcass beef
for the domestic market; 2,000 breeding heifers; and 150 bulls should be
available annually. These will mean an annual production value of approximately
US$1.6 million, of which about US$1 million would be in exports (about 9% of
the present value of annual exports of all livestock and livestock products).
Additionally, there is anticipated to be some 1,000 steers for export, 200
tons of beef for the domestic market, 500 surplus breeding heifers and 30
bulls available annually from private farms included in the Project when
they are fully developed (para 4.09). This production, along with that from
corporation ranches, will result in total annual production value of some
US$1.8 million.
B. Markets and Marketing (Annex 8)
Export Market
4.02      Hong Kong (with one of the highest GNP per capita in Southeast
Asia) is the principal market for Indonesian cattle and will continue to
be so in the foreseeable future. This market, which caters to an ever-growing
population and tourist industry, consumed an estimated 39,000 tons of fresh
beef in 1970, up from 24,000 tons in 1962. Indonesia's share of the market
was negligible in 1962 but reached 40% in 1970. It is also interesting to
note that Indonesian cattle command better prices than those from the People's
Republic of China (the second principal supplier) which sells mostly low
quality draft animals that cannot be fed during the winter months.
4.03      The Project is expected to increase Indonesia's share of the
Hong Kong cattle market. This will result from two inter-related factors
which should make Indonesian cattle more competitive: decreased shipping
costs and regularity of cattle shipments. Project ranches are expected
to market animals at around 380 kg liveweight, attained when they are three
to four years old, instead of at about 350 kg, achieved presently by animals
six to eight years old under traditional forms of livestock management.
Since transportation to Hong Kong is chartered on a per head basis (regardless
of animal size), shipping costs are likely to be lower in relation to per animal
selling price. Likewise, the cost of keeping animals in holding grounds,
penalties for shipping delays, and alleged "unofficial" fees paid to some
shipping companies for favorable scheduling considerations would be reduced,
if not totally eliminated because production from Project ranches would
be larger and more regular in supply (at present, animals are bought in small
numbers from village to village and held in holding grounds until they are
exported).
4.04      Reliability of cattle shipments and decreased shipping costs might
also make exports to Japan and Korea more feasible. These are potentially
good markets for Indonesian cattle. Singapore bans the import of cattle
from any area that is not internationally recognized as being free of foot-
and-mouth disease (FMD), and at present accepts Indonesian animals only from



- 18 -
Nusa Tenggara (of which Sumba Island is part). However, since South Sulawesi
has been free of FMD for five years, it is expected that imports from there
will soon be allowed.
4.05      The Project ranches are near the port of Pare-Pare, which has
adequate export facilities such as quarantine services, a holding ground,
and Government export offices. Ranches in Sumba will use facilities
already handling some exports to Hong Kong.
Domestic Market
4.06      An increasing proportion of the output is expected to be absorbed
by the domestic market for beef, draft animals, and breeding stock. Because
of the very low per capita income in Indonesia, most of the increase in
protein intake is likely to come through consumption of fish and "inexpensive"
meat such as poultry and small livestock (para 2.08). Nevertheless, real
income in many cities is rising and some of this rise has been expressed
in a growing demand for beef. The rise in real prices of beef in Jakarta
and Denpassar, for instance, reflects this greater demand. In recent years,
cattle have also been exported from South Sulawesi to Kalimantan to provision
logging ships and timber camps and it is expected that this trade will grow
substantially and also that for cattle to be used as draft animals.
C. Producer Benefits
4.07      The rate of return on the Corporation's investments is calculated
at about 10% (Annex 9). This is satisfactory considering that a fairly
large part of the Corporation's efforts in its first years will be in applied
research (para 3.05) necessary to the Project and to the long-term livestock
development program of Indonesia. At full development of all its ranches
(Year 14), the Corporation's net worth (Annex 6) is expected to be about
Rp 1.6 billion (approximately US$3.9 million equivalent), or an increase of
around 60% from its paid-in capital of Rp 1.0 billion (US$2.5 million
equivalent in year 7). All the increase would come from accumulated profits.
The Corporation should be in a position to start paying dividends to Government
from year 10 onwards.
4.08      No rate of return for private ranch investments is given since
the parameters for the development model to be employed will not be known
until further information is available as a result of the operation of the
project ranches (see also para 3.21).
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The principal justification of the Project is that it provides for
the adaptation of advanced livestock production technology to Indonesian
conditions. The modern livestock and mixed farming techniques to be



- 19 -
developed by the Corporation and the institutional arrangements set up under
the private credit program are expected to provide the basis for the longer-
term development of an efficient livestock industry in the outer islands of
the country. The substantial research and demonstration benefits expected
to be derived from the project cannot be readily quantified at this time.
But even without accounting for these benefits, and charging the costs of
developing the new technology to the Project as an investment just to increase
production, the return to the economy would approximate 10-12% (Annex 10).
The lower estimate results from costing unskilled labor at full market wages,
the higher estimate from costing unskilled labor at 20% of prevailing rates
to reflect limited alternative employment opportunities during the bulk of
the year&in which they would be underemployed.
5.02      At full development part of the benefit stream would take the form
of incremental returns to the Government from income taxes amounting to
approximately US$80,000 annually from the Corporation. This estimate is
based on current tax rates of 25%. Tax rates on small salaries and net
income from ranches operated by big families are low and returns from these
sources have not been included. Furthermore, at full development, taxes
and various fees on export and domestic sale of cattle will amount to about
US$40,000 equivalent annually.
VI. AGREEMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During loan negotiations, Government agreed to:
(a) Grant grazing rights to land needed by the Corporation
for ranch sites under the Project at no less than 24,000 ha
annually in South Sulawesi during the first three years
of the Corporation's existence and, in Sumba, about
12,000 ha no later than the second year (para 3.04);
(b) Monitor results of pasture and crop trials through DGLS
(para 3.10);
(c) Appoint a representative of DGIS as a member of the Board of
Supervisors (para 3.15);
(d) In consultation with IDA, appoint a President-Director
who has adequate experience in running a commercial
enterprise (para 3.15);
(e) Cause the Corporation to appoint an Executive Assistant
satisfactory to IDA to manage the Corporation's Department
of Animal Production and Technical Assistance under terms
of reference also satisfactory to IDA (para 3.16); and
(f) Cause the Corporation to appoint Ranch Managers acceptable
to IDA whose duties and responsibilities would be satisfactory
to IDA (para 3.17).



- 20 -
6.02      The actual assumption of duties by the President-Director, the
members of the Board of Managing Directors, and the Executive Assistant will
be conditions of Credit effectiveness. Authorization and ratification of
the Financing agreement between Government and the Corporation, and the
granting of effective long-term leaseholds by Government allowing establish-
ment and operation of the Corporation's first two ranches are further con-
ditions of credit effectiveness.
6.03      There will be no disbursement under the credit program to private
cattle producers until an agricultural loan agreement acceptable to IDA
has been drawn up and until the Association is satisfied that extension
services are adequate and the technical results of the Corporation sufficiently
advanced to ensure success of the private sector program.
6.04      With the indicated assurances, the proposed Project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$3.6 million equivalent, under
standard IDA terms.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
THE INDONESIAN LIVESTOCK INDUSTRY
A. Agricultural Background
Geography and Climate
1.        The Indonesian archipelago consists of some 3,000 inhabited
islands, totaling about 1.9 million km2 in area. The islands are strung
in an easterly and southerly direction across more than 5,000 km of sea
from off the west coast of the Malay peninsula almost to the northernmost
tip of Australia (Map). All lie within the tropics between latitudes 6ON
and 11°S. Most are mountainous and many have active volcanoes. More than
two thirds of their combined area is still covered with forest (122 million
ha).
2.        The average daily temperatures of the Indonesian tropics do not
vary much with the seasons and range, at sea level, from 23'C to 32C.
Rainfall, on the other hand, is governed by the monsoon winds. These are
of two types: wet monsoons blowing from the northwest across the Indian
Ocean, bringing rain between September and April, particularly to the
windward slopes; and dry monsoons, blowing from the southeast over the
Australian Desert between March and October, bringing dry weather to the
southeastern portions of the country. The dry monsoons, however, pick up
moisture on their journey across the sea and deposit increasing amounts of
rain as they move northwards. The end result on a countrywide basis is a
three-to-four month wet season, with about 800 to 1,600 mm of rain in east
Nusa Tenggara, gradually increasing in duration and intensity to near year-
round rains, totaling some 3,000 to 4,000 mm in western Sumatra.
Population and Land Use
3.        Indonesia's population has been growing at an annual rate of
2.4% and presently exceeds 120 million, but it is not uniformly distributed
among all the islands. More than two-thirds of the inhabitants live on
Java, Madura, Bali, and Lombok, which together, account for no more than
10% of the country's total land area. These islands are among the most
intensively farmed and heavily populated areas in the world (about 400 to
600 persons per km2). More than 70% of the people are engaged in subsistance
agriculture, growing one, two, and, sometimes, even three crops of rice,
corn, or cassava per year on holdings rarely exceeding 1 ha and, generally,
being between 0.2 and 0.5 ha. The great demand for land has led Government
to prohibit the purchase of more than 5 ha.
4.        Population density on the outer islands is far lower, ranging
between 40 to 50 persons per km2 in Sumatra and Sulawesi and dropping down
to below 10 in Kalimantan and West Irian. Land use patterns on these



ANNEX 1
Page 2
islands are far more extensive, largely because of the Dutch who, during
their occupation, introduced plantation agriculture for such crops as rubber,
coconuts, oil palms, sugar, coffee, tea, tobacco, and spices. Vast tracts
of poorly utilized Government-owned forest aftermaths and grassland savannah
suitable for livestock production are still available on a number of the
larger islands and are awaiting the infusion of necessary credit and techno-
logy. Islands having such areas include Sulawesi, Timor, Sumba, Sumbawa,
Flores, and Sumatra. These lands cannot be purchased from Government but can
be leased for a period of 20 to 30 years for about US$0.12 to 0.15 per ha
per year.
Agriculture in the Economy
5.        Indonesia's economy is primarily dependent on agriculture.  The
sector employs over 70% of the labor force, and, in 1969, accounted for about
50% of GDP and 60% of total export earnings. The agricultural scene is
dominated by rice, corn, and cassava for domestic consumption and rubber,
oil palms, coconuts, coffee, tea, spices, and tobacco for export. These
two major categories of crops accounted for about 85% of total agricultural
output in 1969 - close to 63% for the food crops and 20% for the export
crops. Animal products are nowhere near as important as crops, and, in 1969,
amounted to less than 10% of total agricultural output.
B. The Livestock Sub-sector
The Livestock Population
6.        The Ministry of Agriculture does not keep accurate statistics
of the country's livestock population. Estimates indicate that animal
numbers remained relatively constant between 1967 and 1970, averaging out,
on a countrywide basis, at around 6.6 million cattle, 2.8 million buffalo,
7.3 million goats, 3.5 million sheep, 3.4 million pigs and 66 million
chickens (Appendix 1-1). Estimates of domestic slaughter and records of live
exports indicate that the annual offtake of cattle between 1968 and 1970
ranged from 10.7% to 12.7% and of buffalo, 6.7% to 8.3%.
7.        According to the Animal Husbandry Census of 1967, about 6.1
million of Indonesia's 9.5 million cattle and buffalo are on the island of
Java. The island is also estimated to have around 8 million farms, (each
averaging about 0.7 ha), hence, a ratio of about 0.75 beasts per farm. Herds
are generally composed of two or three animals and most are worked in pairs.
Therefore, many farmers obviously do not own any cattle; the less affluent
depend on manual labor to cultivate their land, and the more affluent depend
on rented animals.
8.        The remaining 3.5 million cattle and buffalo are distributed among
the other islands, particularly Sumatra, Sulawesi, Bali, Lombok, and East
Nusa Tenggara. The majority are also kept in cropping areas in herds of
two or three primarily for draft purposes. Exceptions to this general
pattern are found in the grassland savannah and forest aftermath areas of



ANNEX 1
Page 3
East Nusa Tenggara, Sulawesi, and Sumatra where larger herds, estimated to
total some 40,000 to 50,000 animals and occasionally exceeding 2,000 head
each, are kept primarily for beef production, and, in some cases, exclusively
for export.
Livestock Production Systems
9.        Four major generalizations can be made about Indonesia's livestock
industry. First, sheep, goats, pigs and poultry are reared mainly as
scavengers. Second, dairying is of minor importance and is almost exclusively
restricted to the environs of the larger cities on the island of Java. Third,
cattle and buffalo are kept primarily for draft purposes and, like the human
population, are concentrated in Java. Fourth, most of the domestically
consumed beef is derived from cows slaughtered after several years of draft
work, or from young bulls less than two years old.
10.       Feeding and Management of Cattle.  The systems of feeding and
managing cattle in any one area are largely determined by the density of the
human population and by the intensity of cropping.  At one extreme are the
densely populated and intensively farmed regions of Java, Madura, Bali, and
Lombok, and, at the other, the sparsely populated grassland savannah and
forest aftermath areas of the outer islands (Sulawesi, Sumba, Timor, and
Flores). Cattle feeding and management systems in each area differ markedly
but gradually blend into one another as the density of population and inten-
sity of cultivation decline.
11.       Cattle in IHighly Populated Intensively Farmed Areas.  In the
densely populated areas, work animals are housed year around, usually at
ground level, below the elevated living quarters of farmers.  The animals
seldom graze, but are hand-fed on grass gathered daily from ditches and
roadsides.  They are invariably very well looked after and are expected to
put in between six and eight hours of work every day during the busy season.
The majority of draft animals are cows, which are started on light work at
the age of two years and are fully trained at four. They are usually kept
until the age of 10 to 12 years and are then sold for slaughter. Their
bull calves provide the farmer with much needed cash and are usually sold
between the age of one to two years at a liveweight of some 150 kg.
12.       Cattle in Sparsely Populated Areas.  The forest aftermath and
grassland savannah areas of the outer islands are unsuitable for cultivation
because of one or more of the following reasons: rugged terrain, infertile
soils, low rainfall, long dry seasons, and high cost and insufficiency of
irrigation water. These areas are Government-owned but are utilized by
the inhabitants of nearby villages to graze cattle and horses, invariably
without payment of the prescribed grazing fees. Management of animals and
pastures is usually primitive and without benefit of modern technology and
extension services. Animals are frequently allowed to roam and graze
untended and native pastures remain unimproved, unfenced, unfertilized, and
without reticulated water. Under these conditions, animals and pastures
perform poorly: calving rates are low (40% to 60%) and calf mortality is
high (10% to 20%). Growth rates are slow (sexual maturity at three years



ANNEX 1
Page 4
to four years and physical maturity at four years to six years) and pasture
carrying capacity is minimal (0.1 animal unit to 0.3 animal unit per ha).
Better feeding, breeding, management, and disease control of animals, coupled
with improved pasture technology, such as introduction of new legumes and
grasses, application of fertilizers, reticulation of water, and erection
of fences, should improve the performance of animals and the carrying
capacity of pastures (calving rates, 70% to 80%; calf mortality, 2% to 3%;
sexual maturity, two to three years; physical maturity, three to four years;
and pasture carrying capacity, 0.8 AU to 1.2 AU per ha).
13.       Cattle in Areas of Intermediate Population Density and Cropping
Intensity. Cattle reared in these less heavily populated and farmed areas
are, by and large, also kept primarily for draft purposes and housed the
year around. They are not exclusively dependent on hand feeding but are
allowed to graze for restricted periods of time, the length of which is
determined by the availability and extent of grazing on nearby communal
pastures, stubble, and fallow fields, and under trees in plantations.
14.       Contract System of Finishing Cattle for Exort.  A long established
system of feeding has evolved on some of the islands exporting live cattle
abroad (Bali, Lombok).  Under this system, a cattle agent places a few
feeder animals with a farmer and either pays him a daily fee (Rs 100 per
animal per day) or shares with him equally in the profits after deducting
his own fees. Animals are usually bought at a body weight of 250 kg to
300 kg and are sold at around 350 kg.
Breeds of Cattle
15.       Three distinct Indonesian breeds of cattle are presently recognized,
namely:
(a)  Ongole Cattle.  These are large framed, hardy, disease-
resistant animals originally imported from India to upgrade
the native cattle.  As pure breds, mainly on Sumba, and as
grades, they presently account for about 80% of the total
cattle population.
(b)  Bali Cattle.  This breed originated on the island of Bali
and has since spread to Sulawesi and Nusa Tengarra. Animals
are large framed, well muscled, slow maturing, and highly
fertile, admirably suited for draft purposes. Their meat
is lean, similar to venison, and in great demand on the
Hongkong market.
(c)  Madura Cattle.  This breed is a cross between native and
Indian cattle and is restricted to thle islands of Madura
and Flores. Small size, high fertility, and extreme
hardiness are the distinguishing features of the breed.
16.       Very little is known about the productive potential of the three
breeds of cattle. Published information is almost exclusively restricted to
draft animals and is based more on the opinions and observations of farmers



ANNEX 1
Page 5
and Government officials than on the results of scientific studies. This
information can be summarized by the following three generalizations: Bali
and Ongole cattle mature slowly both sexually (three to four years) and
physically (four to seven years); Ongole cattle are heavier than Bali cattle
(liveweight in adult cows of 400 kg vs 300 kg and in mature bulls, 550 kg
vs 400 kg); and Bali cattle are more prolific than Ongole cattle (calving
rate of 80% compared with 70%). These production coefficients do not,
however, apply to range cattle because of differences in environmental,
nutritional, disease, and management factors. They certainly do not reflect
the potential of the breeds and can be substantially improved by better
feeding management and disease control. The great paucity of basic information
on the actual and potential performance of cattle is largely a consequence
of acute shortages in funds and equipment for research, and of transportation
difficulties in the more outlying islands of the archipelago where most of
the beef animals are kept.
Diseases of Cattle
17.       The Directorate of Animal Health diagnosed several economically
important diseases of cattle in 1970/71 (Appendix 1-2). Among the more
serious diseases afflicting cattle are Foot and Mouth (FMD), Haemorrhagic
Septicaemia, Anthrax, and Rabies. The Directorate also points out that other
diseases may have gone by undetected, and that external and internal
parasites, although not listed, nevertheless, cause considerable debility
and production losses but do not essentially lead to high mortalities.
18.       FMD of the 0-type strain was previously restricted to the island
of Java and those islands farther west but was introduced to Bali in 1962
and later on to Sulawesi. The disease is now kept under control by
vaccination, which is compulsory, together with no less than 10 days of
quarantine for all live cattle being exported abroad from endemic areas. No
incidents have been detected on Bali and Sulawesi for several years, and
Lumbok, Flores, Sumbawa, Sumba, and Timor are still said to be free of the
disease.
19.       Haemorrhagic Septicaemia and Anthrax are endemic throughout the
archipelago, but sporadic outbreaks are kept under control by vaccination.
Rabies is endemic in Sumatra and Java but Bali and Eastern Nusa Tenggara are
reputedly free of the disease and are being kept so by a ban on the import-
ation of dogs and monkeys.
20.       A Rinderpest outbreak on the island of Bali in 1964 caused the
death of over 30,000 cattle and led to a prohibition on the export of live
animals to Singapore and Hongkong. The disease was, however, soon brought
under control with vaccine imported from Japan and has not been detected on
the island since 1966.
21.       Modern veterinary drugs, vaccines, and services are available on
the heavily populated islands but are in very short supply in the more remote
regions of the outer islands.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Government Services to the Cattle Industry
22.       The Ministry of Agriculture is composed of five Directorates
Generals (or Departments): forestry, agriculture, livestock services,
fisheries, and estates (Appendix 1-3, World Bank - 6795). The Directorate
General of Livestock Services (DGLS) is headed by a Director General who is
responsible for the entire livestock sub-sector, including training, research,
and vaccine production. He is assisted and advised by a secretariat of three
professionals and works through four directorates: extension, production
and promotions, animal health, and planning.
23.       Many of the professional staff of DGLS are veterinarians with
limited training and experience in beef production and pasture management.
Most of their work is administrative in nature and too much of their time
is spent behind a desk instead of in the field or a laboratory. Their
meager salaries often force them to seek secondary employment, most commonly
as poultry farmers or as salesmen of veterinary products.
24.       Field Services.  A corps of provincial veterinary inspectors, one
for each of Indonesia's 26 provinces, administer national policy regarding
vaccination campaigns; diagnosis and treatment of disease; castration of
animals destined for export; control of abattoirs; meat inspection; and
supervision of holding grounds, quarantine stations, and inter-island and
export trade in livestock. These inspectors work through field veterinarians
and through some 600 technicians and 600 technical assistants stationed
at the district level and, in some cases, at the sub-district and village
levels as well. The provincial inspectors are responsible to the Director
General of Livestock Services on matters of national policy and to the
provincial governor for the development of the livestock industry in the
province. Their pay is also shared by the central and provincial govern-
ments.
25.       Few if any facilities are available to the field staff who
invariably have to do without transport and without refrigerators in which
to store vaccines and drugs. The few vehicles allocated to a province are
usually kept at headquarters for use by the veterinary inspector and his
staff. The situation in remote areas is further confounded by near complete
absence of diagnostic veterinary services and by acute shortages of drugs.
26.       Research and Vaccine Production.  The Animal Husbandry Research
Station in Bogor is primarily responsible for conducting research in beef
production but has so far achieved little because of acute shortages in
equipment, facilities, and funds. A few fertilizer plot trials, with
introduced grasses and legumes, are being conducted at the station but these
are of little value because annual rainfall in the Bogor region is about
4,000 mm, or about two to four times that of most potential ranching areas.
Similar trials have been initiated recently by the Ministry of Agriculture
at Makasar in South Sulawesi, and, with the assistance of Queensland Univer-
sity (Australia), by Udayana University on the island of Bali. Both of



ANNEX 1
Page 7
these studies should provide valuable information in the near future and
should be expanded as a continuing program of applied research in pasture
development and cattle ranching.
27.       Research in beef cattle production is almost exclusively restricted
to veterinary problems and is conducted at two national research institutes,
namely, the Animal Disease Research Institute at Bogor which is primarily
responsible for bacterial and parasitic diseases and the Institute for
Animal Virus Diseases at Surabaja. Both institutes suffer from acute
shortages of equipment, facilities and funds and consequently concentrate
on routine diagnostic services and on the production of vaccines instead of
investigating the epidermiology and treatment of endemic diseases. The
Institute at Bogor normally manufactures Haemorrhagic Septicaemia and
Anthrax vaccines, and that at Surabaja, FMD vaccine. Their output is
nowhere near sufficient to meet country requirements. Considerable amounts
of vaccine are presently being imported and particularly during periods of
emergency.
28.       The Institutes ship vaccines to provincial capitals during
vaccination campaigns, normally after being advised to do so by the
veterinary inspector. The vaccines are then relayed to the various districts
and sub-districts where they frequently remain in unrefrigerated storage
for months before being used, thereby rendering whole campaigns practically
useless.
Education and Training
29.       Fourteen of the 26 provincial universities have established agri-
cultural faculties in recent years and now offer four-to-five year degree
courses in agriculture. Most have part-time staff members, and those teaching
animal husbandry are invariably veterinarians with little experience and
training in the management of pastures and stock. All faculties suffer
from acute shortages of funds and library facilities and none have the land
or the animals for applied training or for demonstration, teaching, and
research purposes. Their graduates have difficulties obtaining suitable
employment because universities and government have tended to employ
veterinarians instead of agriculturalists and also because opportunities in
the commercial private sector are limited. One notable exception is
Udayana University on the island of Bali, which is trying to develop and
modernize its livestock curriculum with assistance from the University of
Queensland in Australia. So far, one Australian staff member is under
secondment and is now residing in Bali trying to get a pasture and animal
research program under way.
30.       Bogor and Jogjakarta Universities have veterinary faculities and
offer six-year degree courses in veterinary medicine. Bogor University
has so far graduated over 400 veterinarians, about 200 of whom are in
government service, 80 are on the Bogor staff, and the remainder are employed
by various organizations such as the army, municipalities, and universities.
Two other universities (Sah Kuala and Udayana) offer basic veterinary
education but their graduates must complete the clinical years at either
Bogor or Jogjakarta to qualify for graduation. All four universities are
acutely short of funds as well as teaching, research, and library facilities.



ANNILX 1
Page 8
31.       Two animal husbandry training institutes at Bogor and Malang train
intermediate level technicians and annually graduate a total of about 60 to
80 students. Most are then employed by the Government as technicians, either
in the field or at the research institutes. These training institutes are
also suffering from acute shortages of facilities, equipment, and supplies.
May 8, 1972



APPENDIX 1-1
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
LIVESTOCK POPULATION
(In Thousands)
Horses    Cattle    Buffalo    Goats    Sheep    Pigs          Chickens
1967                 632      6,816       2,493      .7,092    3,704    3,235       65,000
1968                 612      6,566       2,870       7,282    3,556    3,337       66,000
1969                 653      6,341       2,940      7,533    3,533    2,878        66,2500
1970                  690     6,872       2,908      7,344    3,404    4,191        66,700
AVERAGE               647     6,649        2,803      7,313    3,549    3,410       66,050
June 8, 1972






INDONESIA                              APPENDIX 1-2
Beef Cattle Development Project
ANIMAL DISEASE SITUATION IN INDONESIA
1970 and 1971
Parasitic Diseases       Bacterial Diseases    Viral Diseases
c,4            0- *Q 
to*r            0   0      *. 5       c   .. 
O   g           Q  _I1.r 4t               u 
E   0       0  o                          0 o
U'  E  ~ -J  0   Q.            c   0  '-4  ' a)         
U) E    d  o        x   w Cd  S     <4s 
-4  o       Q. o    0       Cs    u               Cs     c     c    cncs
Cs$4-4     '                L    -   44)ro.      014)    c    Csc
) .i    ..,~  43  'H  U   ,   c                 0   4  4J   'H  a) 4
;  N P         cm   C)  $. X  EG ¢4           E-4  OZ   C4  z
Sumatra
Atjeh             x       x   x   x               x                        x   x
North Sum.        x  x   x   x   x        x                          x     x   x
'Riau                     x  x   x                                              x
West Sum.         x   x   x   x   x           x   x     x            x    x   x
Djambi            x   x   x   x   x           x                 x    x     x   x
Bengkulu          x           x   x           x   x                  x     x   x
South Sum.                                    x   x                  x     x   x
Lampung                                           x                  x    x   x
Kalimantan
West Kal.                     x   x               x                            x
Central Kal.                  x   x                                            x
South Kal.                    x   x               x                            x
East Kal.                     x   x           x   x                            x
Java
West Java         x   x   x  x   x            x   x     x   x   x    x     x   x
Central Java      x   x   x   x   x               x     x   x   x    x     x   x
East Java         x   x       x   x               x     x   x   x    x     x   x
Bali              x           x   x   x           x                            x
Nusa Tenggara
West N. T.        x   x       x   x           x   x    x   x                    x
East N. T.        x   x       x   x           x   x    x                        x
Malukku               x       x                   x                             x
West Irian            x   x   x                                                 x
Sulawesi
South Sul.        x   x   x   x   x           x   x     x                  x   x
S. E. Sul.        x   x   x   x   x           x   x     x                  x   x
Central Sul.      x   x   x   x   x               x     x                  x   x
North Sul.        x   x   x   x   x               x     x            x    x   x
Source:  Department of Livestock Services, Ministry of Agriculture.
April 26, 1972






INDONESIA
Beet Cattle Development Project
ORGANIZATION CHART
OF THE
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF LIVESTOCK SERVICES
CENTRAL                      [  _        Ministry of Agriculture
Secretariate General
D.G  of0          D.G. of               Directorate General of              D.G. of           D.G. of
Forestry        Agriculture               Livestock Services                Fisheries         Estates
Secretariate of D.G. of
Livestock Services
Institute of animal husbandry                          Institute of Animal Diseases
Livestock technical training            Iinstitute of Viral Diseases
Directorate of
Directorate                                                   Directorate of            Directorate
of Extension               Production                         Animal Health              of Planning
Promotion                                                    of Pl
PROVINCE                                   Veterinary Service
DISTRICT                                District Veterinary Service
SUB-DISTRICT                    [              "Pengatur"
field veterinary technician
Pengamat
VILLAGE                                            +
Mantri
World BanK-6795






ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT ON CORPORATION RANCHES
A. Natural Pastures
General
1.        The pasture species occurring naturally throughout Eastern
Indonesia are closely related to those of Northern Australia. In fact,
similar genera are often encountered and, frequently, even the same species.
Consequently, animal performance on pastures in Northern Australia can be
used as a guide for East Indonesian livestock development until local inform-
ation becomes available.
2.        The main genera of grasses are typical of the "tropical tall
grass" region in Australia and constitute quite productive pasture during
the three-month growing season. They then mature and set seed and decline
in palatability and nutritive value during the dry season. Animal liveweight
gains have a typical stop-go pattern, the animal losing about 20% of its
peak wet season weight during the subsequent dry season. Compensatory gain
during the following wet season helps to offset this dry season loss some-
what but continuity of weight gain is lost. Legumes are generally sparse
in such pastures because of the lack of lime and phosphorus.
Ecological Characteristics
3.        Two broad ecological regions are encountered in the proposed
ranch development sites:
(a) South Sulawesi, with an annual rainfall regime of about
2,000 mm and a short dry season and generally acid soils;
and
(b)  Sumba, with a lower annual rainfall of 800 mm to 1,200 mm
and a prolonged dry season and soils that are neutral to
slightly alkaline developed from corraline limestone.
Each obviously requires a different approach to pasture improvement.
4.        South Sulawesi.  Two different patterns of rainfall are found
between Wladjo and Enrekang, in the east and west of South Sulawesi, respect-
ively, mainly because of an intervening mountain range. Wadjo has an annual
rainfall of 2,700 mm, with a weather pattern consisting of twvo dry months,
five medium rainfall months, and five wet months -- April to August.
Enrekang, on the other hand, has two dry months, two medium rainfall months,
and eight wet months -- October to March.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        The main genera of grasses are Sorghum, Ischaemum, Tleemeda,
ileteropogon, Bothriochloa, and Chrysopogon. Sorghum and Ischaemum dominate
in W4adjo on the heavier clay loam and clay soils and Heteropogon is
prominent on the sandier podzolic soils of Enrekang. Legumes are sparse
in Wadjo, but, in parts of Enrekang, a good population of native Desmodium
species provides adequate natural pasture. Carrying capacity of natural
pasture at Wadjo and Enrekang has been estimated at about 0.3 animal units
(AU) per ha.
6.        Sumba.  The Sumba region has an annual rainfall of 800 to 1,200 mm,
with an average wet season of four months and a dry season of seven months.
This rainfall pattern is typical of most of the Northern Australian podzolic
and lateritic soil belt, where the introductiot. of Townsville Stylo
(Stylosanthes humilis) in the natural Heteropogon Ischaemum, and Sorghum
grasslands has made an increase in carrying capacity possible.
7.        The natural grassland on the flatter areas of Kabaroe is made up
of species of Themeda, Heteropogon, Ischaemum, Sorghum, Bothriochloa,
Cymbopogon, and Capillipedium, with a component of useful native legumes
such as Desmodium heterocarpon and Stylosanthes species, the latter in short-
grass communities. The corraline limestone areas carry a body of shorter
grasses such as Chrypopogon, Eragrostis with Heteropogon, and the gallery
forests have two useful leguminous browse trees both of which would be
useful as drought fodder. The carrying capacity of the native pastures on
Sumba has been estimated at about 0.18 AU per ha.
B. Establishment of Improved Pastures
8.        While the proposed ranch areas could be developed profitably in
their natural state by providing additional watering facilities and applying
good management practices, productivity could be increased considerably by
replacing the natural pastures with improved species. In most cases, however,
this would require the application of fertilizers to satisfy nutritive
requirements. While suitable species are available for improved pasture
mixtures, it would be necessary to determine whether using them and supplying
their fertilizer needs would be economical.
9.        Both the improved pasture species seed and the artificial ferti-
lizers are costly, making selection of climatically adapted types that
demand less added nutrients an important factor. Species of Stylosanthes
have an extraordinary power to extract their requirements for phosphorus from
soils low in this element, and Siratro and Centro also have modest require-
ments. Hence, these three could provide the leguminous basis for the
improved pastures. Seed supplies of both Schofield Stylo and Siratro,
however, are in short supply because of drought in Australia and the present
cost of Siratro seed is US$5.00 per kg. It would be used, therefore,
sparingly until Australian prices fall or until seed can be produced more
cheaply in Indonesia.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
10.       Species suggested for the various ecological niches of the
proposed ranches are:
(a) Wadjo
Slopes - Legumes                Stylosanthes guyanensis (Schofield
Stylo)
Centrosema pubescens (Centro)
Phaseolus atropurpureus (Siratro)
Grasses               Setaria sphacelata (Kazengula Setaria)
Panicum maximum (Guinea grass)
Heavy Soil Flats - Legume       Phaseolus lathyroides (Phasey bean)
Grasses    Panicum coloratum var makarikariensis
(Makari kari grass)
Digitaria decumbens (Pangola grass) -
plus nitrogen
Brachiariamutica (Para grass)
Forage
Crops       Sorghum almum (Colombus grass)
Gallery Forest Fringes          the legume Leucaena leucocephala
(b) Enrekang
Cultivable Slopes - Legumes   Schofield Stylo
Centro
Townsville Stylo (Stylosanthes humilis)
Grasses   Kazengula setoria
Guinea grass
Steep Slopes and Erosion
Scars                        Melinis minutiflora (Molasses grass)
Heavy Clay Soils - Legume       Phasey bean
Grasses    Makari kari grass (less wet areas)
Pangola grass (plus nitrogen)
Para grass
Gallery Forest Fringes          the legume Leucaena



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(c) Kabaroe
Reddish Brown
Flats        - Legumes       Townsville Stylo
Siratro
Solichos uniflorus
Grass         Buffel grass
Black Clay Flats - Legumes    Siratro
Phasey bean
Grass      Buffel grass
Black Loamy Slopes - Legumes  Siratro
Solichos uniflorus
Grass    Buffel grass
Establishment Methods
11.       Land Clearing.  Very little clearing would be needed on the ranches.
On Enrekang, there is scattered growth of the shrub Melastoma, which could
be hand-grubbed and burned before the pasture establishment phase begins.
12.       Sowing.  It has been proposed by ANZDEC that the native pastures
be burned and subsequently oversown with pasture legumes by airplane. This
method has been used successfully on many occasions to establish Townsville
Stylo, but has not been sufficiently tested with Centro, Stylo, and Siratro
to allow a firm recommendation.
13.       Townsville Stylo is best adapted to areas receiving less than
1,750 mm of rain per year and having a distinct dry season, since rain
falling on it in its normal "standing hay" state will cause infection by
fungus and it will lose its feeding value. It is, therefore, proposed to
use this species only on the reddish-brown soils of Kabaroe and in conjunction
with Siratro.
14.       In Queensland, it has been proved that the best establishment of
tropical pasture species follows through cultivation of the land. The
effectiveness of establishment then declines with decreasing soil disturbance.
Similarly, the performance of a legume-based tropical pasture declines with
decreasing amounts of applied fertilizer, e.g., below about 600 kg per ha
of single superphosphate. In the Northern Territory, maximum yield of
Townsville Stylo was achieved with an application of 625 kg per ha, 75% of
the maximum yield with 250 kg per ha, and 90% of the maximum yield with
250 kg per ha at establishment and an annual top dressing of 62 kg per ha.
Performance also declines with declining seeding rates. Consequently, a
decision must be made in the light of the economic viability of the Project
as to how much land preparation, fertilizer, and seed can be applied to each
hectare.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
15.       It is believed that, on gently sloping land, strip planting with
a wheel tractor and a rear-mounted three-point linkage disc cultivator,
carrying a separately powered broadcaster, would be most suitable. Uncul-
tivated strips would then protect the land from severe erosion during the
first season. On the steeper slopes, a crawler tractor, towing a larger
implement, could be used. Where the land is flat, the total area would be
planted.
Costs
16.       Two estimates of establishment costs for pasture mixtures have
been made, one for an optimum pasture of mixed grass and legume species
adequately cultivated and fertilized, and another for a minimum pasture
that would provide only a worthwhile improvement over natural pasture.
17.       South Sulawesi
(a)  Optimum establishment                                     US$per ha
Disc seeding and fertilizing - 33% crawling
tractor, steep slopes                                      3.00
Sod-seeding and fertilizing - 67% wheel tractor,
flats and lower slopes                                     1.40
Fertilizer - 100 kg per ha triple superphosphate
and sulpher and trace elements                             8.00
2 kg per ha Stylo                                              5.72
2 kg per ha Centro                                             0.88
2 kg per ha Guinea grass or Kazengula setaria                  4.50
Burning natural pasture, handling, pelleting, etc.             0.20
Contingency, 20%                                               4.74
Total                     US$28.44
Ultimate carrying capacity = 0.8 - 1.2 - 1.1 AU per ha



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(b)  Minimum establishment                                     US$ per ha
Disc seeding and fertilizing, 33% crawler tractor,
steep slopes                                               3.00
Sod-seeding and fertilizing, 67% wheel tractor,
flats and lower slopes                                     1.40
Fertilizer, 50 kg per ha triple superphosphate plus
molybdemum and sulphur                                     4.00
1 kg per Stylo                                                2.86
2 kg per Centro                                               0.88
Burning, handling, pelleting, and such                        0.20
Contingency, 20%                                              2.47
Total                     US$14.81
Ultimate carrying capacity = 0.8 AU per ha
18.       The minimum establishment plan reduces the fertilizer application
to half and does not use a grass component but allows the native grass strips
between the sown areas to provide that element. The rate of Stylo seeding
has also been reduced by half. The carrying capacity of this minimum mixture
has been reduced from 1 AU per ha for the optimum treatment to 0.8 AU per ha.
19.       Annual top dressing for all of these pastures should be of the
order of 50 kg per ha of triple superphosphate.
US$ per ha-
Top dressing operation
ground                   1.75         or       0.35 (air)
Fertilizer                  4.00                  4.00
Total                  5.75                 4.35
20.       Sumba.  The pasture species chosen for the Kabaroe ranch area are
the legumes, Townsville Stylo and Siratro, and buffel grass, each of which
can withstand long dry spells. The former is drought-escaping by annual
seeding, the latter two by deep rooting systems. All will be established
initially with cultivation, which will allow Siratro to be incorporated and
subdue the native grasses while Townsville Stylo is being established. In
succeeding years, it is expected that both Townsville Stylo and Siratro will
spread throughout the stony corraline limestone country via the cattle dung.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
21.       Because of the relatively flat terrain for pasture improvement,
all of the cultivation for establishment can be performed with the cheaper
wheel tractor, towing a sod-seeder. There are approximately 3,500 ha of
neutral to alkaline soils suitable for Siratro and 4,500 ha suitable for
Townsville Stylo establishment.
Seed costs have been set at:                             US$ per_kp,
Bufell grass                                                  2.97
Centro                                                        0.44
Guinea grass/Kazengula sotario                                2.25
Siratro                                                       3.00
Sorghum almum                                                 0.20
Stylo                                                         2.86
Townsville Stylo                                              1.00
The cost of triple superphosphate plus trace elements has been set at US$80
a ton.
(a)  Optimum establishment                                    US$ per kg
Sod-seeding                                                   1.76
Fertilizer, 50 kg per ha triple superphosphate
plus Sulphyr and Mo.                                      4.00
2 kg per ha Siratro over 40% of the area                      2.56
4 kg per ha Townsville Stylo pods over 60% of the area        2.40
5 kg per ha Sorghum almum over 40% of area                    0.40
2 kg per ha Buffel grass seed                                 5.94
Burning, pelleting, handling, and such                        0.20
Contingency, 20%                                              3.45
Total                     US$20.81
Ultimate carrying capacity = 0.8 AU per ha



ANNEX 2
Page 8
(b)  Minimum establishment                                     US$ per ha
Sod-seeding, 40% of area                                      0.70
Aerial seeding 60% of area and fertilizing                    0.21
Fertilizer, 50 kg per ha triple superphosphate and
sulphur plus Mo.                                           4.00
2 kg per ha Siratro over 40% of the area, sod-seeded          2.56
4 kg per ha Townsville Stylo pods over 60% of the area        2.40
2 kg per ha Sorghum almum                                     0.40
1/2 kg per ha Buffel grass                                    1.49
Burning, pelleting, handling, and such                        0.20
Contingency, 20%                                              2.39
Total                     US$14.35
Ultimate carrying capacity, 0.5 AU per ha
Initially, annual topdressing should be at the rate of 50 kg Molybednized
triple superphosphate per hectare.
22.       In the first year of development, it is suggested that, on each
ranch, an area of 250 ha be prepared and sown to improve pasture species.
Broadscale trials should include:
(a) Three pasture legumes;
(b) Three rates of seeding;
(c) Three rates of superphosphate - nil, 100 kg per ha, and 200
kg per ha-
(d) Cultivation versus non-cultivation of burned land for
sowing superphosphate; and
(e) With and without trace elements.
Research Unit
23.       Pasture establishment and utilization trials should be carried
out, under the supervision of a tropical pasture specialist on as many
ranches as possible. Such trials might well be incorporated in an extended
tropical pasture imiprovement program at present being conducted by the
Queensland University under the Australian-Indonesian Universities Coopera-
tion Scheme.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Firebreaks
24.       It will be necessary to establish firebreaks along fence lines
and in large paddocks to control pasture burning. This can be done with a
bulldozer or, more cheaply, with a small crawler tractor, towing a tandem
disc cultivator. Such firebreaks could also serve as station roads.
Seed Multiplication
25.       Seed multiplication areas for Siratro and Centro at Enrekang
should be established early and the seed handpicked for future supplies.
Because the Townsville Stylo and Stylo seeds are more difficult to harvest,
they should be imported initially.
May 8, 1972






ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Pro,ject
PROPOSED DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
OF KEY UNITS AND OFFICIALS
OF THE EASTERN INDONESIA BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
1.        The following are proposed duties and responsibilities of key
units and officials of the proposed Eastern Indonesia Beef Cattle Development
Project:
A.   Board of Mana;in  Directors (BMD)
1.   Set the Corporation's policies and promulgate
rules and regulations to implement them.
2.   Approve the Corporation's budget.
3.   Hire and discharge, in accordance with law and
regulations, officials and personnel (except
those appointed or named by the Minister of
Finance) 1/ of the Corporation.
4.   Authorize training of personnel.  In the case of
personnnel of units under the responsibility of
-the Department of Animal Production and Technical
Assistance, training authorization would only be
approved upon recommendation of the Executive
Assistant.
5.   Contract for services of consultants recommended
by the Executive Assistant for the preparation
of possible follow-up development projects.
6.   Submit application for grazing rights and cross-
breeding of cattle (where this is prohibited)
to the Government upon recommendation of
the Executive Assistant.
7.   Advise the Minister of Finance with respect to
matters concerning implementation of the Corpor-
ation's developmental and operational objectives.
1/   Herein, the Minister of Finance is referred to only in his capacity as
representative of Government as sole shareholder in the Corporation.



AN'NEX 3
Page 2
8.   Inform the Minister of Finance regarding the affairs
of the Corporation.
9.   Provide the Board of Supervisors with Information
requested by it.
10.   Delegate any of its powers to other officials of
the Corporation.
11.   Within the law and regulations and in conformity
with IDA agreements, act on any matter in
furtherance of the Corporation's activities.
B.   President-Director
1.   Chair meetings of the Board ef Managing Directors.
2.   Coordinate the work of the various Corporation units.
3.   Enter into contract in the name of the Corporation.
4.   Perform any function delegated by BMD.
C.   Department of Animal Production and Technical Assistance 1/
1.   Within the overall policies promulgated by BMD, set
specific policies and regulations governing operations
of the ranches.
2.   Manage, in an overall capacity, the Corporation's
ranches.
3.   Within limits set by BMD, anG in collaboration with
the Deputy Executive Assistant, hire and discharge,
ranch personnel.
4.   Authorize animal production, pasture improvement, and
mixed farming experiments, trials, and demonstrations
which would include: (a) introducing new and/or
improved species of plants; (b) determining economical
fertilizer application rates; (c) developing cheap
methods of land preparation; (d) investigating the
possibilities of aerial sowing and topdressing; and
(e) determining effective means of animal feeding.
1/   The duties and responsibilities herein described refer also to the
Executive Assistant to the President-Director (para 3.16).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
5.   Prepare the Department's budget and recommend same to
the BMD.
6.   Perform any function which I3MD and the IDA agreements
may require.
7.   Recommend training of personnel.
8.   Recommend consultants to be hired by the Corporation
for preparation of follow-up projects.
9.   Recommend sites for Corporation ranches.
10.   Recommend cross breeding of cattle under conditions
where prohibited by regulations.
Department of Administrative and General Services
1.   Upon request by the Corporation unit concerned and,
subject to the law and regulations and agreements
with IDA, purchase materials, equipment, etc. for
the use of the Corporation.
2.   Market on its behalf, products and other assets of
the Corporation.
3.   Maintain book of accounts, statistical records,
personnel records, to record the Corporation's
operations.
4.   In general, perform all functions of a general and
administrative nature.
November 20, 1972






I ndonesia
Beef Cattle Development Project
CHART OF ORGANIZATION OF THE
EASTERN INDONESIA BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA,
AS SHAREHOLDER
(REPRESENTED BY MINISTER OF FINANCE)
BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
BOARD OF MANAGING DIRECTORS
PRESIDENT-DIRECTOR AS CHAIRMAN
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL                                                  DEPARTMENT OF
PRODUCTION & TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                 ADMINISTRATIVE & GENERAL SERVICES|
TECHN ICALRANCHES IN                         .PURCHASI NG    .                      ACCOUNTI NG,
TEC  L      1|1      SOUTH                             .       & MARKETING             PERSONNEL,
ASSISTNE           SULAWESI & SUMBA                                   SERVICES          & OTHER SERVICES
inDirect Line of Authority
lIfIISEilAdvisory, Supervisory, or Indirect Line of Relationship
NOTE: One of the members of the Board of Supervisors would be a representative of the
Directorate General of Livestock Services                                             World Bank-6748(2R)
Department of Animal Production and Technical Assistance to be headed by the
President-Director and managed by the Executive Assistant to the President-Director.






ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
THE BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
A.  Tntroduction
1.        Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), which has endured many changes since
it was established in 1896, is the oldest rural bank in the country. It
was first called BRI in 1945, integrated into the single state bank in 1965,
and reformed in its present shape with a new charter at the end of 1968.
B. Functions and Responsibilities
2.        BRI's main function is to assist the government with agricultural
development policies and programs. It gives credit on special terms for
production purposes to agricultural cooperatives, farmers, fishermen and
other small agriculturists. Additionally it lends on ordinary commercial
terms for non-plantation agriculture, and to other cooperatives, handicrafts
and rural industries. In the last year or so, an increasing share of its
business has been in transport and tourism. It also provides normal banking
services, including acceptance of current, savings, and time deposits. It
administers government credit for rural development programs (i.e. small-
scale irrigation and farm roads). BRI supervises the 6,000 village banks
and paddy banks (at a small loss) under policies and procedures set by Bank
Indonesia. It administers the current rice intensification program with
Bank Indonesia funds. Additionally it now provides limited medium-term
investment credit for improvement of rural infrastructure, including farm
mechanization, rice processing and storage.
C.  Lending Opera ions
3.        Data prior to 1969, when BRI was integrated in the single state
bank, is virtually unobtainable. Major operational data for 1969 and 1970
is available, but full 1971 figures will not be ready until late 1972.
Loans disbursed and outstanding for the two years are given in Table 1.
Loan disbursements are increasing in volume, but trade and services, rather
than agriculture, now account for over half BRI's operations. Medium-term
investment credit, started late in 1969, has gone mainly to rice millers,
hullers and for small irrigation works. Trhe 1970 decline in advances for
agriculture, livestock, fisheries and cooperatives, was partly due to a
reduction in advances to cooperatives, when BRI made loans only to those
that were better managed and financially sound. Advances to PN Pertani



ANNEX 4
Page 2
were for fertilizer stocks, and were guaranteed by Bank Indonesia. The
large increase in advances under the rice intensification programs in
1970 was due to BRI taking over credit responsibilities under the current
(Improved BIMAS) program.
Table 1: BRI LOANS DISBURSED AND OUTSTANDING
1969              1970
Rp bi         2     Rp bi       %
Loans disbursed
Trade and services                           31.3       39       61.3      54
Small-scale rural industries                  9.6       12       19.8      18
Medium-term investment credit                  -          -       2.7       2
Agric., livestock, fisheries & coops.        24.0       30        6.3       6
PN Pertani fertilizer distribution           12.4        16      16.0      14
Rice intensification programs                 2.7         3       6.9       6
Total                          80.0       100     113.0    100
Loans outstanding at years' end                 37.8        47      49.0      43
4.        BRI expects that by year 1973 loan operations will increase by
around 70% over those of 1970, with the largest gains likely to be made in
loans for medium-term investments, for the rice intensification program,
and for small-scale rural industry.  Credits to P.N. Pertani are expected to
decline.
5.        Lending rates vary according to purpose, and currently range
from 12% a year for rice intensification, agriculture investment, and
importation and distribution of fertilizers, to 24% for tourism and
industry, and up to 36% for other commercial purposes.
D. Sources of Funds
6.        BRI has an authorized capital of Rp 300 million, all government
owned, but as yet none has been paid in. A special committee is reviewing
the capital structure of all state-owned banks. It has not yet reported,
but it is expected to recommend Rp 11 billion as BRI's equity capital,
which should be satisfactory. At the end of 1970, BRI had reserves and
retained earnings of Rp 774 million, after starting at the end of 1968 with
a net loss of Rp 361 million.
7.        BRI's financial statements for 1969 and 1970 are at Appendix 4-1.
Its main sources of new funds are Bank Indonesia and deposits, as is shown
in Table 2. The government's successful financial stabilization programs
have produced a useful increase in deposits from the private sector from
1970 onwards.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Table 2: BRI SOURCES OF FUNDS
1969          1970
---Rp billion----
Sources
Borrowing from Bank Indonesia                            26.6          30.9
Deposits, including current, savings and time             9.7          12.8
Loan collections                                         50.0          82.2
Total                              86.3         125.9
Loans disbursed                                               80.0         113.0
E. Financial Position
8.        BRI made an operating profit of Rp 1.1 billion in 1969, and lip 1.3
billion in 1970. Due to increased administrative expenses (for expanded
staff training and improved office facilities), profit for 1971 is expected
to be about Rp 0.8 billion. Details are at Appendix 4-2.
9.        State banks have been required to maintain a minimum liquidity
ratio of 30%. BRI's was 54% at the end of 1969, and 43% at the end of
1970. The excess liquidity was partly due to slow communication with some
outlying branches, but also to inadequate and cumbersome accounting systems
and reporting procedures.
10.       The present arrears position is unsatisfactory, and since the
current thorough examination has not yet been completed, details are
unavailable. Arrears are around one-fourth of all loans outstanding. The
more serious amounts overdue at the end of 1970 arose from the rice in-
tensification programs, and earlier lending to the cooperatives and the
private sector. Tentatively, about 8% of all overdues, say 2% of loans
outstanding, are considered as bad debts.
F.  Organization and Manement
11.       At the end of 1970, BRI had its head office (in Jakarta), 13
regional offices, 218 branch offices, 77 sub-branch offices, 537 village
units and 509 mobile units. At the end of 1971, village units had in-
creased to 1,071, mobile units to 578. Village and mobile units were
formed to give credit to farmers under the rice intensification programs.
12.       BRI's Management Board consists of one President-Director and
3 Managing Directors, appointed for 5 years by the Minister of Finance.
Each Managing Director is in charge of a group of head office sections.
The Board is supervised by a 3-man Council, two from BAPPENAS and one
from the Ministry of Finance, all appointed for 3 years. At the end of
1971, the total number of employees was about 10,000 (including village
and mobile unit staff), of which 1,500 were at head office.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
13.       The present organizational structure was inherited from BRI's
1967 predecessor, and has only been marginally modified to cope with changed
circumstances. Recording and operating procedures are outdated, and there
is much overlapping between sections. Office equipment is inadequate.
There are excess personnel in some sections and shortages, particularly
of qualified and trained officers, in others. These shortcomings delay
appropriate and timely decisions by BRI's management. To remedy them, the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) has agreed to finance the bulk of the cost of
a project to modernize BRI's management, particularly on the accounting
side.
G. Modernization Project
14.       In 1971, ADB agreed to lend BRI US$3.4 million, being the foreign
exchange cost of a US$4.4 million project, lasting about 3-1/2 years, to
modernize BRI. The project consists of some modification and consolidation
of sections within head office, the adoption of improved accounting,
auditing and reporting systems and procedures, and the initial mechanizatio.n
of 126 branch offices in E. Java, which between them account for about four-
fifths of BRI's total business. ADB's loan will finance (a) the foreign
exchange cost of consultants, who will help improve accounting systems and
train staff and (b) the procurement of adding, calculating and bookkeeping
machines. Three consultants will help project implementation, and one will
strengthen the investment loans section and develop medium and long-term
agricultural credit programs. The major benefits of the project should
include savings in administrative expenses, improved quality of accounting
staff, better service to customers, faster f ow of management information,
and improved loan repayments. The program is currently in its first year
of operation and is proceeding satisfactorily.
H. Conclusions
15.       ADB's Modernization Project is improving the accounting side of
BRI's operations, and means that BRI will be a suitable channel for the
IDA Credit for this project, subject to the terms and conditions laid down
in the main report.
16.       ADB, the Government and IDA are agreed that much more needs
to be done over and above the ADB project, to enable BRI to meet the country's
rural credit requirements over the next decade. Additionally, BRI requires
an intensive staff training program in subjects other than accounting
procedures, a study to determine how village and mobile units can best
serve farmers' financial needs, and the formulation of a long-term develop-
ment strategy. These problems are under active discussion with ADB,
the Government, BRI and IDA, and it is hoped that some technical assistanice
towards them will be included in one or other of the IDA projects covering
credit to small farmers curently being appraised (November, 1972).
November 20, 1972



APPENDIX 4-1
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS, ACTUAL AND PROJECTED
OF THE BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
1968 - 1973
(Rp. Million)
Actual                       Projected _    _Z
1968k/   1969      1970        1971      1972     1973
A. ASSETS
1. CURRENT ASSETS
Cash on hand                    2,184    4,142    4,410         5,009    6,127    7,554
Call loans and deposits           860    2,645    7,021        8,932   10,664   12,234
Government and other
securities                       33       496    1,672       2,177    3,110    3,741
Receivables                       456       922    2,552        2,954    3,233    3,914
Other Current Assets              109         1         5           8        11        15
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS            3,642    8,026   15,650        19,080   23,145   27,458
2. OUTSTANDING LOANS
(less provisions for
doubtful debts)               6,804   37,636   49,045       64,200   86,300  115,400
3. FIXED ASSETS                       237      613    1,840        2,827    3,796    4,529
4. OTHER ASSETS                       104      429        56         110       135       160
TOTAL ASSETS                   10,781   46,704   66,564        86,217  113,440  147,547
B.  LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
1. CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts payable                1,104    3,088    4,420         3,866    4,900    5,200
Demand deposits                 5,925   12,939   24,238        33,800   48,000   64,500
Other current liabilities          181        1       -           -         -         -
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES       7,210   16,028   28,658        37,666   52,900   69,700
2. FIXED DEPOSITS AND SAVINGS        860    3,899    6,218        11,200   16,000   21,500
3. BORROWINGS FROM CENTRAL
BANK                          3,078   26,551   30,911       36,500   43,418   54,900
4. CAPITAL 2                       (361) (-)(-)                   (-)(-)( _)
5. RESERVES AND RETAINED
EARNINGS                        -         226       774         851    1,122    1,447
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
CAPITAL                      10,781   46,704   66,561       86,217  113,440  147,547
Source:  Asian Development Bank Appraisal of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) Modernization Project.
(Report No. INO: Ap-6 dated April 19, 1971).
1/ On December 31, 1968, BRI was established and took over all assets and liabilities over
the former Rural Banking Division, BNI Unit II.
2/ BRI authorized capital of Rp. 300 million has not been paid in.
3/ Projections for 1971-73 have been made by BRI without taking into account any impact
of the project on income, expenditures and bad debts.
April 26, 1972



APPENDIX 4-2
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS, ACTUAL AND PROJECTED
OF THE BANK RAKYAT INDONESIA
1968 - 1973
(Rp. Million)
Actual                       Projected 2/
1968_17/  1969     1970        1971      1972      1973
A. INCOME
a. Loan interest, pro-
visions and other
charges                        2,191    6,921    8,761        11,110   15,116   19,385
b.  Other Income                       88       161      233         404       501       671
TOTAL INCOME                   2,27      7,083   .9000        11,514   15,720   20,056
B. EXPENDITURES
a. Interest on borrow-
ings and Deposits                505    2,891    3,790        4,397    5,850    7,645
b. Salaries and other
personnel expenses             1,190    2,239    2,666         4,168    5,131    6,118
c. Administrative and
general expenses                 401       797    1,223        2,080    3,217    4,657
d.  Other Expenses                     56        15       16          18        19        20
TOTAL EXPENDITURES             2,152    5,942    7,695        10,663   14,217   18,440
C.  SURPLUS BEFORE PROVISIONS
FOR DEPRECIATION, BAD
DEBTS AND TAXES                       127    1,141    1,305          851    1,400    1,616
Provisions for bad debts              167      326       330         450       500       550
Provisions for depreciation            13       37       150         240       323       373
Provisions for taxes                  -        -         180          71       258       311
Provisions for losses up
to Dec. 31, 1968 (BNI Unit II)        -        552       -
D. NET SURPLUS OR LOSSES
(-)                            -53       226      645          90       319       382
Source:  Asian Development Bank Appraisal of Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) Modernization Project.
(Report No. INO: Ap-6 dated April 19, 1971)
1/ On December 31, 1968 BRI was established and took over all assets and liabilities
over the former Rural Banking Division, BNI Unit II.
2/ IProjections for 1971-73 have been made by BRI, without taking into accout any impact of
the project on income, expenditures and bad debts.
April 26,1972



ANNEX 5
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
1.        The cost estimates for a 12,000 breeding/fattening Corporation
ranch in South Sulawesi (Appendix 1) and the one in Sumba (Appendix 2),
as well as the capitalized cost of operating the Corporation headquarters in
Makassar, South Sulawesi (Appendix 3), were estimated at local prices
current during appraisal. However, allowances of approximately 5% of base-
line cost have been made for possible price rises, plus another 5% of base-
line cost for physical contingencies (unforeseen investment items).
November 2, 1972






Total Coat                      S~~~~~nnail Diaburseuatat
No.  of      Co.t                  For.lgo                   -------------  Y                  e     a     r ------------
Bouslameect St                     Vol~~~~~Wta  uni       jLg"       Mflaaa        Tgtfl ~  ,1                2         .........     4...          5
relnRioht.
Initil1 Fee.......................                          12,000 ha    0.04           300         -            500          500        -                  -                 -
Annua Fee I/ .....................                           12,000 ha    0.02           240        -240                       60          60           60          60        -
Survey..........Coot......                           12,000 ha    0.48        6,000         -          6.000        6,000        -                        --
Budary Stoo.....................                              110       6.50          700        Z-            700          700        --                                   -
Sub-total..................                                                  7440                     7.440       7.260           60....A     60           651      -
Paut-re iEta.bl1ishe t (601 of art.)..........               7,200 ha   24.00        40,000      133,000     173,000       10,000      30,000       44000       44,000       45,000
Posture Maionton-. .................                         5,850 ha    3.75          7.700      26 .000      33.700        -2.600                 10,400     .202.700
Sub-total.................                                                  47.700      159.000     206.700     jQ,990        32.600      54.400      -64.70       45 000
Perimeter Footing ...........I........                        60 kmn      185          3,000       8,000       11,000      11,000         -           --                       -
Suhdivioional Peeing .................                        60 Ism      185          3 000       8.000       11.000       3.000       4.000        4.000        --
Sob-tota.1   .................6 000                                                      16.000      22.0100      14.000       4,0002      4.000         --
Waterio Fanilities
Supply and Rtet-latist.................                        1         60,000        7.000      33.000      40.00         8.000      20.000       12.9000          
Cattle Yards
Coarutooad tquip-.o...............                       1          2,300       1000          ,32QO     23J500      21,50 92
Raokhierv and foutement
Sulldns..rulit  Angled ..ercod Toolbar 60-65 HP....            1/3       233100          800       6,900        7,700       7,700         -.-
Sod Bordieg StIll ...................                         1/2         3.000          150       1,350        1.500       1,500         -
WheelSTrarto  40-45 HP.................                         1          3,500         350        3,150       3,500       3,500         ---
ryne_Sod Seeder....................                            1            450           50         400          450         450         -..-
Spinne  Tepdreo......................                          1            300           50         250          300         300---
Sundry Atta-bh-t f-r Trator.............                       -           -             150       1,350        1,300       1,500                                  --
Truk 3-3 Tuna1                                                            6,000          600       5,400        6,000       6,000         -                        --
Pou  Whe Driv   ebls2                                                     3,300          600       6,000        6,600       6,600         ---                            
I4'torrYclee......................                              2            350         100         600          700         700         ----
Fire Fighting Equipment................                         1           300           50         250          300         300         ----
Trannu.. Over eJtk  ialta..  ............                       1          1,400         200       1,200        1.400       1,400         -                        .-
Welder - (portable - Pro) ...............                       1            500          50         450          500         500         ----
Wnrkobp Toou. ....................                              -           .            350       3,150        3,500       3,500         --
G...r-t-r and Installation...............                       1         4,000          400       3,600        4,000       4,000         -.--
et-ninay Equop-et ..................                           -            600       5--f       5-50I   ......2              600..9     z.        ..z....     ....z...
Seb-teta1l.          .           . ...... ..........3.950    349260                                    J3 38.550 3                           -         --o
Horse  and Saddles ...................                          0            150       4.500        -           4.500       1.500       1,15.A2      1.500         --
Buildia Strut-re
Maagr'  Ouu  - 12042, fusiehed  od eqoippad with
tiiiaV.....................                            1/3        16,000        3,600       1,800        5,400       3,400         -           ---
Assiatant Manager's House - 80,2, equipped sith
utIlIties.~~~~~..........                           1          9,000       8,000        1,000       90,00        9,000        ----
Workshop, Matbinery Shed, Store - goa,~~~~  1         3,300        3000          300        3,300       3,500         -                        -
Housing Material fur Workers..............                    40             100       4 000         -          4.000       2.000        1.000        1.000        --
Sob-tota.1  .................                                               18.600        3.300      21.900       19.900      1,ju99     ....L       ..........
Liveatol,
Breeding Co- w....................                            2,500           52     137,500         -        137,500      44,000       77,000       16,50o-o
Bls.D-sso.i    ..................                           78           150      11,700        -          11,700       4,000        7,200         500-
Bulls   IP-rtod ....................                             10          300                   3 . 0002   3...0009   ....z..       ..Z...      3...s2000      .z... 
Sub-total.......... ...........149,200                                                    3,000      152,200      48,000       84,200      20,000         --
Fned-r S trer   / ....................                       1,766            53      93.600                   9 11.29     27.900       22.000       16.400      27.300         -
Sub-tota.1..................242.800                                                       3.000      MANj9f       75.900      106.200      36.400       27.300        -
Oeeratiea teats ForVh-    c a    ee n  1   .....                -            -         22,000        9,600      31,600        7,900       7,900        7,900       7,900         -
and Fixed..................8,600                                                                    1,700      14,300        1,300       2,800        4,400       5,800         -
Peterary Cats A...........-.........8,600                                                      8,600       17,200       1,5000       3,700       3,400        6,600        -
Hisrelanesu Coen   A..................1,960                                                     1,000       2,960          740         740         740          740         -
Waaee V .-........................67.700                                                           J4.921/    82*600         16.000      20.100       22.8000     23.700         -
Sob-totl...................                                                447,850      290.200     211J022      205.050      200.6D0     150.600      136.800      45a900
Cetoanisad tundingts
15. FrO-t........................                                                    42,150       34,800      76k950      21 450       20,9000     15,700       14.200        40
TOTAL...............3..........813...                                       490000 
3.2 5000  85000   226.500      221,500     166,300      1.00         49,700
2/Oe   .nae -frthren. r-nhee-   total of abeet 36,000 ha.prd
Nap 15, 1q72



AFPPEDIX ,-
Baf Cattle Dawiomot Proec"t
norMAM or tmvnurmr coon
OF A 12.000-HA  RANCH IN  So=
Total Cost                                  Asasa  Dishursmts
Mo.  of      Cost                   Foreign                    -------------Y-                        -     a    r---- -----
Davel.pomt Itaiw                                  Witsg        mi         Wana      SsCmua        SisaL        .....           2            3           4         .....t...
Crazing tights
Ioitial F   ... .................                   ...     12,000 ha    0.00            500                      Soo0         300         -            -           -            -
Annua Foe .1  ....................                           12,000 ha    0.02            240         -240                       60           60           60           60        -
Sures  Cost .....................                            12,000 ha    0.48          6,000         -          6,000        6,000         ----
Boondary Stones  ,..................                             110       6.50           700         -700                      700         --- 
Sob-tota.1 ......................7                                                           -4          7."    7J2§0                60           60           60         -
Pastors.
Pasturo Establislsot (60% of area)..........                  7,200 ha   17.00         27,000       95,400     122,400       17,000       36,000       26,000      26,000        19,400
Pasture M.tetenan       I .1...............                   8,500 ha    4.60          8.600      30.500       39.100         -4.600                  13.800      20.700 
Sub-tota.1..................35.600                                                        125.900      161.500       17.000      38.600       3980         46.700       19%40
Fe-irter Fooin.3 .................                              0 k.       163          2,300       3,800        8,300        8.300         -            -           --
lubdivisional Peering.................                         so t        163          2.300   ~ 5Q          8...A00         2,0          3 000        3.3D0         - 
Sob-tota.3...................5000    11.600    16.600   10Q30                                                                    j,00          3,32          - 
Watering Pailitlee
Supply and Roticolatise.................                         1         40,000    7. 000         3300         4000          55Q         20.00        12.000 
Cotltei Yards
Coost-otlos aed Equipoet ..............                         1          2,300        1.000        1.300    2..500          2.300         ----
K.rhinerv sod tEolleet
Ty.. Sod Sanding Drill ................                         1            430           30         400          450          450         ---
Whoal Trator 40.45 HP ................                          1          3,300          330       3.150        3,500        3,300         --                                    -
Spiso-  Tpdro...er ..................                           1            300           30         230          300          300         ---
Sodry Attarhoent for Trator.............                        -           -             150       1,350        1,30,0       1,300         ----
Trothk 3-5 Ton..  ...................                           1          6,000          600       3,400        6,000        6,00D-DO 
Poor Wheel  r-ir  Vobine.1 ...............                      2          3,300          600       6,000        6,600        6,600         ----
Motorcyole.s.....................2                                           2350         100          600         100          700         ---
Fire Fighting Eqoipost................                          1            380           30          230         300          3800        -- 
Trso..civo  with iottallatin. ...  ........                     1          1,400          200        1,200       1,400        1,400         ---
WU-do  - (portable - PT) ...............                        1            300           30          630          300         360         -- 
Workehop tools.....................                             -           -             330        3,150       3,300        3,300         -.--
Voterionry Equipso..L................                           -            600           30          330         600          600         ---
Sido DoIivory Rkis..................                            1            400           30         350          400          400         - 
Haybalr ........................                                           1,200          130        1,330       1,300        1.300         --
G ..er-t- nod Sneta1latio..  .............                      1          4,000          400        3.600       4.0          4.00                                      
Sob-tota.1..................3.2D0   28.050   31.230    31 230                                                                      ---
tanohion Eqisulent
Horens and Saddlos....................                          22            120        3.300        -           3.300        1.300        1.000      J19g           - 
Doildi-n sad Str-coro
M-ea-er  Hoo-   - 12002, furnished and equipped with
otilitie.s.....................1                                        16,000      10,000        6,000       16,000       16,000         ---
Anaistant Ma..agara House - 80.2, aquippsd with
stiliis1                                                                 0.000       0,000        1,000        9,000        9.000         --
Worso,M.      inr   hd   toe-tt21                                          3,300        3,000          500       3,500        3.500         ----
HBosiag Material for Workers..............                     30            100     3J00         -- 7-         jLOW          2.000          300         500         -
Sub-tota.1..................24.000    7.300    31.300    30.3D0                                                                     300          505 
Li-etoek
Breeding Cow......................                            1,700           30      03,000          -         83,000       20,000      40,000       23,000         --
Bulls   Doaseti ....................                             43          130        6,300         -          6,300        1,300        3,000        2,000        --
BullI:-taportad ...................                              10          300         -          3.000     3...00-0                                  3,000        -
Sub-total.......... ..........91,300                                                        3,000      94,300       21,300       43.000       30,300         - 
Fender Sote- 11 ....................                             900          33     1533.800     -- -         153.800      22_200       33.100       43.700       54,700 
S.h-total      ..................                                            245i300      - 000       240.300       43.800       76.100       73,700       54.700         -
Sesratina Coats for Vohirles aod GeneraOr                         -      .....-         22,000        9,600       31,600        7,900        7,900       7,900        7,9000  
Renir.sodMaitonqosof Dianhinary. Eosiewent
and Fied Asar. A.-                                                    - ..............6,800    4,600      11,400        1,000        2,000        3,700       4,700         -
Vet.rinary Cost. it..........            .-.........0 ,300                                            8,500       16,600        1,300        3,500        5,200       6,300         -
Mlsrsllapotaos  Costs   ..................-                                   -           1,960        1,000       2,060          740          740          740          140        -
W8AgA 4/   ......................                                 ..                     59.J0      .44,9        fuad         J.LA2         26t90       2OA22        M.i±sy       -
V.h-tota1...................f43Q.000                                                      M.AN        Z0EJiS       1M4220        80 0        1742 n.)     M  0)J)50    14(45
CoatlsascLso. and toandias:
10% Prlrs.-........... ...........42.000                                                           28.550      J1j350        18.950       18.800       77,400     U ,T0((l       ()I1
TOTAL ............4.........72.800                                                        307.200      78_00_0     203,600      198.200      191.700      165.0(        2140
IDories First Pose Deeslopaat Y.or. . lnvcstsnat  ftatatise Poiti".
Kay 15, 1972



APPENDID 5-3
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
ESTIMATED HEADQUARTERS INVESTMENT COST
(In US$ '000 equivalent)
Total Coat                          Annual Disbursement
No.  of      Cost                    Foreign                     -------------- Years -------
Development Items                     Units        Unit        Local      Exchan        Total            1          2           3          4
Office Equipment and Supplies:
Typewriters .. ...............,..              5            0.4         0.2           1.8         2.0           2.0        -           -           -
Calculators  ,..          ...........         2            0.5         0.1           0.9         1.0           1.0        -           -           -
Desks and Chairs    .         .........       15            0.2         3.0           -           3.0           3.0        -           -           -
Filing Cabinets       .       .........       15            0.2         3.0           -           3.0           3.0        -           -           -
Transceiver - with installation  .              1           1.4         0.2           1.2         1.4           1.4                    -
Supplies        .          ...........         -            -           1.5           0.5         2.0           2.0        -           -
Miscellaneous         .-                                    -           1.5...        0.5         2.0           2.0
Sub-total ...........           -                        9.5           4,9       14.4          14.4         -
Vehicles:
Automobiles ......................              3           3.0         1.0           8.0         9.0           6.0         3.0        -
Four Wheel Drive Vehicles    ........           2           3.3         0.6           6.0         6.6           3.3         3.3        -           -
Operating Costs ................-                     -                30.0           -          30.0           6.0         8.0        8.0         8.0
Sub-total    ..........                     -          31.6          14.0       45.6          15.3        14.3         8.0         8.0
Maintenance Costs:
Office Equipment ................              -             -          0.1           0.3         0.4           0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1
Vehicles .........................              -                       1.0           4.4         5.4           0.8         1.2         1.7        1.7
Sub-total      ..........                               1.1          4.7         5.8           0.9         1.3         1.8         1.8
Telephone, Post, Electricity, etc.                -            -          2.0            -           2.0          0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5
Travel Expenses - Domestic .........                            ,          3.0           -          3.0           -           1.0         1.0         1.0
Atuditing Expenses ......      ............                    -           -             8.0        8.0            2.0        2.0         2.0         2.0
Rent for Office Space ..............              -     -                14.4           -          14.4           3.6         3.6         3.6         3.6
Wages 1/ ............................            24                     222.8         106.0       328.8          78.1        80.6        80.8       89.3
Training of Assistant Farm Manager                5            4.5         -           22.5        22.5          22.5         -
Technical Assistance 2/ ........                  _            _          _           180.0       180.0          30.0        50.0        50.0       50.0
Sub-total ..........           -            -        284.4         3h0.1       624.5         167.3       153.3       1l7.7       156.2
Contingencies and Roundings
10  Price ,,,,,,........................, 28.1                                     20.0        48.1          14.3        11.8       11.0        11.0
TOTAL                          -            -         312.5         360.1      672.6          181.6       165.1      158.7       167.2
1/ Including fringe benefits. Ten percent increase in real terms for expatriate
Executive Assistant to the President Director in year three.
2/ Including two graduate students for three years for pasture development and
animal husbandry.
May 30, 1972






INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
OF THE
EASTERN INDOEESIA BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMIET CORPORATION
At Year's End of First 14 Years of Development
(In Rupiah Millions)
---------------------------------------------------------------- Years ------_____________
1         2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11         12         13         14
A S S E T S:
Cash and Cash Assets .............................          0.2       6.5        0.1       66.8       98.3       28.6        5.1        1.6       16.3       85.5       99.7      125.3      153.3      159.1
Livestock Tnventory / .108.5                                        380.7      736,2   1,031.3   1,266.5   1,465.7   1,679.2   1,812.7   1,876.3   1,884.4   1,867.6   1,836.1   1,809.0   1,809.0
Ranch Investments:
Improvements and Infrastructure.                        29.2      126.3      299.8      500.5      686.8      796.3      837.5      837.5      837.5      837.5      837.5      837.5      837.5      837.5
Buildings, Yards and Structures Al            .         19.9       54.9       75.0       74.5       72.7       69.9       67.1       64.3       61.3       58.7       55.9       53.1       50.3       47.5
Machinery and Equipment .31.5                                      71.8       93.4       77.7       59.9       4D.7       21.5        2.3        ----
Other Assets / .10.9   16.1   15.0   13.2                                                              7.7    2.2            -.-3    -.-    -.-               -.-    -.-
Organization and Other Deferred Expenses    / .           67.0      137.4      198.7      240.2      331.4      361.4      350.4      339.8      332.3      322.7      358.7      389.5      418.9      440.3
Total Assets .267.2                                        793.7   1,418.2   2,004.2   2,523.3   2,764.8   2,960.8   3,0542    3,123.7   3,188.8   3,219,4   3,241.5   3,269.0   3,293.4
IABTLITIES ANDl NET WORTH:
Accrued Interest Payable:
On IDA Fonda  / ............-                                       4.5       10.8       18.5       25.4       30.0       32.3       33.0       33.0       31.1       29.0       26.6       24.o       21.0
On Other Borros-ings  l .......... ---                   3.8       31.0       61.2       74.7      121.4      142.o      155.8      161.6      161.0      158.7      i6o.8      158.0      154.8      151.3
Reserve for Liabilities
For Income Taxes Due   ... ... ...                                             __         _         11.8        1.3       14.o       26.2       32.6       25.5        24.8      25.0       28.3        32.0
For Employee Benefits and Welfare  i!         /            - _        ._         -        -.-        5.3        5.9       12.2       24.o       38.9        50.4       61.5       72.8       85.5       99.9
Loans Payable
On IDA FPnds i.                                         16.1       52.1      121.9      186.6      236.6      263.1      274.9      274.9      274.9      274.9      259.3      241.8      222.2      200.2
Others .142.0                                                     384  o     645. 9     907.6   1,124.5   1,250.5   1,347.3   1,347.3   1,307.3   1,307.3   1,279.   1,248.8   1,214.2   1,175.5
Total Liabilities .161.9                                    478.6      839.8   1,187.4   1,525.0   1,692.8   1,836.5   1,867.0   1.847.7   1,847,9   1,815.1   1,773.0   1,729.0   1,679.9
Net Worth:
Paid-In Capital........                 ....           105,3      315.1      -78.4       16.n      g63.o   1,03e.2   1,054,7   i,o54.7   1,054.7   1,154,7   1,054.7   1,054.7   1,054.7   1,05: .7
Prior Years' Net Inco-e and Surplus Reseso  /             --         --- _._              _ _         .-       30.3       33.8        69.6      136.5     221.3      286.2       349.6      413.0      477.2
Net Income for Current Year (Appendix 6-1)          /      .-        -.-                   -.-      30,3         3.5       35.8       66.9       84.8       64.9       63.4       64.2       72.3       81.6
Total Net Worth .105.3                                      315.1      578.4      3i6.  99 8,3   1,072.0   1,124.3   1,191.2   1,276.0   1,340.9   1,404.3   1,468,5   i,54o.o   1,613.5
Total Liabilities and Net Worth .267.2                      793.7   1,418.2   2,004.2   2,523.3   2,764.8   2,960.8   3,05i.2   3,123.7   3,188.8   3,219.4   3,341.5   3,269.0   3,293,4
i At projected market value.
Asset replacements treated as operating expenses.
Includes expenses (minus any income) during first four years of operations of Corporation ranches, amortized for 30 years (the original term of the Corporetion's grazing rights).
At 129 per annum on average year-end balances.
25% of net income before taxes.
is  15% of net income after taxes.
/   Borrowings from Goveroment or other sources to be replenished by IDA funds.  Assumed leg tt replenoisbnet is Sin months, on average.
U   Customry Government practice is to require building up of Surplus reserve to equal paid in capital.
After reserve for omployce welfare deducted.                                                                                                                                                                  ao
May 30, 1972






INDONEBIA                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~APFEJtrK 6-1
Beef Cattle Developent Projct
PIAWCTD STATRMIGT OF INCOMI
OF THIR
ZABUTW INDOU8IA SW  CATTLE DEVLOCRT CORtPRATION
Year 5 to Year 14 o  ti  Pro1ect
)In RUpia  Nions 4
------------------- -- -------------------- Years _____________________________
5         6         7         o          9        10        1L        22         Ii        14
I -: r D' E:
3ale. z: _attle .253.2                                          416.2      587.3     712.6     718.5     680.8      670.5     660.1     644.7      617.9
Irnreaze ic Liveztock Inventory (Annex 6) 235......2            199.2    213.5       133.5      63.6       8.1      (16.8)    (31.5)    (27.1)      -
:           .J.    ...e.                             488.4      615.4     800.8     846.1     782.1    688.9       653.7    628.6       617.6    '17.9
, .2122 ....L  8)2BC_Z
P:r :u-lze 0o: Animnals ............. I ............. .142.3    219.1     274.3      246.8    166.0      103.1       53.8      17.9         -
S.-:nsn-e--. .                               4.6      180.4     247.1      266.6     275.7     280.3     297.0      311.8     311.7     303.S
Arno'._ ,ation ji ')rga  zation and Other
Je:se'e. . Th. ...ense.                             9.8      1l1.0       11.0      11.0      11.0       11.0      11.0      11.0       11.0      11.0
oh z Buillin>is, Yards and Structures         2.8       2.8       2.8       2.8        2.8       2.8       2.8        2.8       2.8       2.8
Jen-ec:atl    ' 'lachinery and Equipment   /           19.2      19.2      19.2       19.2       2.3       --         --                  -          -
£Jeo?,--iati,,n o' ther Azsets  /..    .                S.                   2.2       -.-       -..        -.-       -._ __               _ 
2         .b-.ot ..                          294.2      438.0     556.6      546.4     457.8     397.2     364.6      343.)     32>.-    317.6
iln'erezt on Borrowed IDA Funds.  .25.4                          30.0       32.3      33.0      33.0      31.1       29.0      >6.6      24.o       21.0
interezt or, Othler Borrowings 2    / .121.4                    142.0     155.8    161.8       161.0     158.7      160.8     158.0     154.8      L51.3
Total Expenzez and Losses Before Income Taxes .       441.0    610.0       744.7    741.2      651.8      587.0    254.4      528.1     504.3    .489.9
iet Intome 3efore Income Taxes .47.4                              5.4      56.1      104.9     130.3     101.9      99.3      100.5     113.3     128.0
Incane Taxes ./ .11.8                                             1.3       14.0      26.2      32.6      25.5       24.8      25.0      28.3       32.0
: E ;_            E: .                                    .6        4.1       42.1      78.7         7      76.4       74.5      75.5      8         2 96.0
Net income Distribution:
,o Reserve for Employee Welfare  / .5.3                         o.6        6.3      11.8      14.7      11.5       11.1      11.3       12.7      14.4
To Surplus ........  ..............                          30                   . 3 .5   38    -662  83.0  64.9  6.4       64.2       72.3      81.6
Total..                                        36    4.1  42.1                                     76.4   7475 5.5   85.0 96 0
V   operations fsor first four years of the Corporations ranches have been capitalized into "Organization and Other Deferred Expenses" (see Annex 6S).
i/  See Appendi>es 9-3, 9-6, end 9-7 for details.
Inoludes replacement cost of machinery, equiPaent angt other assets. Depreciations ere on original starting assets of the Corporation.
J   Amortized for a period of 30 years, the original term of grazing rigbts of the Corporation.
At 12% per annum on average year-end balances.
At;urrent rate of 25% of net incme before taxes.
Z1 1S% for employee welfare and benefits.
September 20, 1972



INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Develogpent Project
PRO2ECTED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
OF THE
EASTERN INDONESIA BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
During First 14 Years of Derelone"t
.In Rupia  Millions)
--------------------------------------------------------------------- Years _--__________________________________________________________________
1         2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9        10         11         12        13         i4      Total
Px7ITS:
_A -cids - Capital Contribution   ...        105.3     209.8      263.3     238.4      151.2       70.2      16.5        -.-       -          -.-       - _.       -  -.                  .-   1,054.7
IDA Funds - Long-term  Loan .16.1                        43.0      62.8       64.7      50.0       26.5      11.8        -.-       -           .-       -          -           -          -      274,9
IDA Sub_total .121.4                           252.8      326.1     303.1      201.2      96.7       28.3       -.-        - .        -         -         -    _,_               -    1,329.6
SOI - Losg-teem Loans .76.4                             204.3     298.7      307.7     237.4      126.o      56.8    _ .-           -         -.-       -.         -    ,    -     , _         1,307.3
GOI - Sesonal Lowns .................  ,           6   260.4      326.6      295.8     186.5       87.8      60.6        -.         -         -          -.        -.         -.          -    1.347.3
GOI - Sub-total .206.0                         464.7      625.3 6    0.        423. 9    213.8      117.4                                                                              2,654.6
Sales of Cattle 2       / .0.2                           40.1      95.7      173.5     253.2      416.2     587.3      712.6     718.5      680.8     670.5      660.1      644.7     617.9
Total Receipts ..      .6    7 S7.6   1,047.1   L080.1                         878.      726 ,7  713,0         7126      718.5      680.8     670.5      660.1      644.7     617.9
DISDEITS
OperatIng   penses 3 ..                       93.6      144.4     182.8      196.8     215.6      221.4     247.1      266.6     275.7      280.3     297.0      311.8      311.7     303.8
Purchaes of Feeder Steers ...........         25.6       56.0      75.9       80.2     123.9      219.1     274.3      246.8     166.0      103.1       53.8      17.9         -          -
Purchasas of Breeding Anim1as .44.0                     131.0     159.2      109.3      18.4        -          .-             -, -            --                   -          -           -
Ranch Dsveloments:
Impront and Infrastructure .                29.2      97.1      173.5      200.7     186.3      109.5      41.2        -          -         -          -.        -.         -, 
Buildings, Yards and Structu2res            20.6       36.7      22.8        2.2       1.0        -.-        -.-       -.-        -         -,         -.-                    
achintery and tquiP3ment   3.      /        36.8       53.1      40.1        3.3       i.4        -.-        -.        _.-        _,_       _,_        _,_
Purchae of Other Assets .          ,          13.6        6,5       3.7        3.7       _,-       -_,         _._       _._        _         _          _         -_
Repayment of Loans tn1udiog Interest:
IDA Long-term Loan 1;/.''.'''''' '            -         -'         4.5      10.8      18.5       25.4       30.0      32.3       33.0      33.0       48.6      48.6       48.6       48.6
GOI Srag-term  Loan Y.                       -.-        -.-      21.4       51.7      70.2      120.6      142.0     153.4      156.8     156.8      231.4     231.4      231.4      231.4
Repayent of Lens, Seasonal Loan               64.o      222.7     360.0      345.2     207.0       87.8       20.6       -.-       40.o       -.-        -.                     
Accrued Interest on Seasonal Loan 9.           -.-        3.8        9.6       9.5        4.5       0.8        _,-        2.4       4.8        4.8       .-          -          - 
Resrve for lncome Taxes  ,,         .           -         -         -          -          -.-      u.8         1.3      14.6       27,5       33.6      25.5       24.8      25.0       28.3
Total Disbursements .                327.4     751.3   1,053.5   1,013.4       846.8      796.4     756.:     718.5      703.8      611.6      656.3     634.5      616.7     612.1
CASH BALANCE FOR THE YEAR              0.2       6.3       (6.4)      66.7      31.5      (69.7)    (23 5)      (3.5)     14.7       69.2       14.2      25,6       28.0        5.8
.-JDCLATIVE CASH BALANCE ......        0.2       6.5        0.1       66.       98.        29.                     6      1.t 3      85.5               9-7         153.3      159.1
`atic tet-sren capitel and long-temn loans after fu11 diaburoe-ert 4)6r).
co.mcs e,pr."reo (mnun any incr-e) during first Poor yearz of Of.-rati "at,. CorporatODr. crOns  tr-al as "9rganizatiu- und Other Deferred Expenses'.
s*O.erApl,ern: Fr 9_ 3, 9-6, and 9-7 for details.  Inc-u--s r-p-em-'o  ,0  If ma-hinery, eao  other  --set_.
-a i:y ..l ;--eviou-  year paid during current year.
ir -., 17-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
ESTIM.AED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Disbursement at
IDA Fiscal Year and quarter                                                  End of Quarter (in US$0oo)  /
1972/73
September  30,  1972  .........                 .................
December  31,  1972  ..........                 .................
March  31,  1971  .........                  .....................                                                 -
June  30,  1973  ...............                 ................                                                50
1973/74
September  30,  1973                                                                                            10..........................  l
December  31,  1973                 ...........................                                                180
March  31,  1974  .............. . ................                                                             300
June  30,  1974  ..............                 .................                                               430
1974/75
September  30,  1974                 ...........................                                                570
December  31,  1974                 ...........................                                                 730
March  31,  1975  .............                  .................                                              920
June  30,  1975  ...............                 ................                                            1,130
1975/76
September  30,  1975  ..........                   ................                                          1,360
December  31,  1975  ..........                  .................                                          1,590
March  31,  1976  .............                  .................                                           1,320
June  30,  1976  ...............                  ................                                           2,050
1976/77
September  30,  1976  ..........                   ................                                         2,270
December  31,  1976  ..........                  .................                                          2,470
March  31,  1977  .............                  .................                                           2,640
June  30,  1977  ...............                  ................                                           2,800
1977/78
September  30,  1977  ..........                   ................                                         2,950
December 31, 1977 .................OO...                                                                     3,090
March  31,  1978  .............                  .................                                           3,220
June  30,  1978  ...............                  ................                                           3,340
1978/79
September  30,  1978  .........                   .................                                          3,430
December  31,  1978  ..........                  .................                                           3,500
March  31,  1979  .............                 .................                                            3,530
June 30, 1979 ...............................                                                                3,560
1979/80
September  30,  1979  ..........                   ................                                          3,580
December 31, 1979 ..                                                                                         3,600
1   Assumes a 6-month lag between Project disbursements and IDA reimbursements.
June 8, 1972






ANNEX 8
Page i
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
CATTLE AND BEEF MARKETING IN INDONESIA
A. Introduction
1.        Cattle and beef marketing is oriented principally toward the live
animal/fresh meat trade, there being practically no facilities for handling
frozen, chilled, or processed beef. Most of the cattle sold are draught
animals (almost eight years of age) too old for further work in paddy fields.
Commercial beef herds are estimated to total some 40,000 to 50,000 animals
only and their offtake is usually marketed at an age of 5 to 6 years and a
body weight of about 350 kg.
2.        The cattle and buffalo population is widely dispersed in location
and ownership, and owners generally have inadequate income, little access to
finance, and insufficient land and feed to enable them to increase production
or improve the quality of the animals they produce. Most are slaughtered
for local consumption, the Eastern Island region being the only area with
some surplus for export. There has been some interinsular trade in live
cattle, but this has declined because of the enforcement of disease control
regulations, particularly with respect to exports from Bali following the
outbreak of rinderpest in 1964. The difficulties traders have experienced
in arranging shipping and finance have also contributed to the downward
trend. In recent years, cattle have been shipped from South Sulawesi to
Kalimantan to provision logging ships and timber camps and the trade is
expected to grow substantially.  This would be a new market particularly
for lighter weight cattle from surplus areas.
B. Supply and Prices of Cattle
3.        Slaughter of livestock for domestic consumption from 1967 to 1970
is listed below. The figures appearing in parentheses represent the
percentage of animals slaughtered to the total number of each group -
/1        ~~~/1
Year      Cattle/e      Buffalo-         Goats          Sheep         Pigs
----                    in thousands--------------------
1967 .  1,021  (15)    275  (11)    1,038  (15)    268  ( 7)    926  (29)
1968 .    674  (10)    221  ( 7)        581  ( 8)    259  ( 6)    464  (14)
1969 .    773  (12)    183  ( 6)        471  ( 6)    221  ( 6)    386  (13)
1970 .    783  (11)    164  (5.5)       489  ( 7)    489  (14)    542  (13)
/1 This type of animal is also used for draught purposes.



ANNEX 8
Page  2
Annual offtake for cattle and buffalo is somewhat higher than shown, since
animals for export are included.
4.        The domestic market for meat is greatly affected by the low level
of income, which, in turn, limits meat consumption. Per capita income
should go up, however, if present economic and political stability continues,
in which case a sustained increased in farmgate cattle prices would be
likely. At present, the producer prices of cattle vary between Rp 25,000
and Rp 40,000 (US$60 to US$100) per head, or about Rp 75 to Rp 100 (US$0.18
to US$0.25) per 1 kg liveweight for an animal weighing 300 to 400 kg. The
price of culled cows is about Rp 18,000 (US$43), while breeding heifers 1/
or heifers in calf run about Rp 15,000 to 18,000 (US$36 to US$43) and breeding
bulls about Rp 50,000 to Rp 60,000 (US$125 to US$150).
5.        Prices paid to producers for cattle and buffalo vary with the
distance to an urban center, holding ground, quarantine station, and port.
Average farmgate prices for exportable cattle and buffalo in January 1972
on Bali were about Rp 100 (US$0.24) per kg liveweight and in South Sulawesi,
about Rp 90 (US$0.22). Lighter animals, mostly for local consumption or
interinsular trade, were sold for Rp 70 to Rp 80 (US$17 to US$0.19) per kg
liveweight. In eastern Nusa Tenggara, prices tend to be slightly lower,
but animals of exportable quality are bringing almost as much as those
exported to Hongkong from South Sulawesi. Sumatra and Kalimantan cattle
and buffalo prices are similar to those for Bali export cattle.
6.        Total annual meat production between 1966 to 1970 ranged from
420,000 to 430,000 tons, with cattle and buffalo meat making up about 70%
of the total, or about 290,000 tons. In this period, the total per capita
production of all types of meat was about 3.8 kg to 4 kg and domestic
consumption was about 3.5 kg (see table below).
Meat      Eggs       Milk       Animal Protein
Year           (kg/year)  (No/year) (1/year)        (eram/day)
1969/70 /1           3.5        215       0.54               6
1970/71 /1           3.5        220       0.55               6
1971/72 /2           3.6        225       0.55               6
1972/73 /2           3.6        230       0.56               6
/1   Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture - 1971.
/2 Forecast - BAPPENAS (Planning Office of the President)
7.        Retail prices for beef have risen considerably in the last three
years. In Jakarta, which is admittedly a high priced market, beef prices
rose from Rp 250 per kg (US$0.60) in December 1968 to Rp 395 per kg (US$0.95)
1/   This type of animal is also used for draught purposes.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
in December 1971, an increase of 58%. 1/ Above-average markets offer 1 kg
of filet for Rs 800 to Rs 850 (US$2.00 to US$2.10), 1 kg of steak for Rs 400
to Rs 500 (US$1.00 to US$1.25), and other cuts for Rs 250 to Rs 350 (US$0.60
to US$0.85) per kg. In the same three-year period, the general cost of
living index in Jakarta increased by 23% and food by 12%, indicating,
possibly, some unsatisfied demand for beef. Beef prices also rose in
Denpassar, the center of Bali's tourist industry.
C. Marketing Procedures
8.        Cattle are purchased by butchers for local slaughter and consumption
and by agents on behalf of cattle merchants or exporters. Because the
cattle and buffalo are scattered (para 2), stock must be collected and
concentrated in central areas for subsequent distribution. Some provinces
(Java, Bali, and parts of Sumatra) have weekly livestock sales, while in
others, stock has to be purchased on an individual basis from owners.
10.       Prices for cattle and buffalo paid to the producers are determined
by the buyer, who makes a subjective assessment of finish and dressing
percentage. In the main, cattle with liveweights over 400 kg are preferred,
especially for export, since most of the buyers' subsequent expenses for
transport, holding, slaughtering, and shipping are incurred at a fixed rate
per head. Furthermore, buyers are responsible for clearing quarantine
station formalities (para 14).
Financing of Cattle Exports
10.       Because of the large capital sums involved in purchasing and shipping
cattle mostly to Hongkong and the high rates of interest for cattle export
credit in Indonesia -- currently 2-1/2% per month at an annual rate of
inflation of about 4% 2/ -- most exporters depend on financing by importers.
It is estimated that about 50 to 60% of the required capital for cattle
export is provided by Hongkong importers. As a result, the cattle export
trade is subject to some degree of external control.
11.       In the cattle export business, there are two main forms of
marketing: (a) shipment on consignment, and (b) shipment at importer's
account. W4hen shipping on consignment, agents undertake to arrange for the
sale of cattle sent to them, charging a commission of 2 to 3% of the sale
proceeds for their services. To facilitate this trade, Indonesian exporters
1/   Indikator Ekonomi, Monthly Statistical Bulletin, Central Bureau of
Statistics Jakarta, December 1971.
2/   In 1971, the officially published rate of inflation was 2.4%.  However,
it is estimated that a rate of about 5 to 7% would be more accurate.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
are extend letters of credit for an agreed number of animals, amounting to
about 50 to 60% of the f.o.b. value. The net amount of the sales procpeeds,
less costs and importer's credit, including interest, is then remitted to
the exporter. When importing on own account, importers provide capital for
Indonesian exporting companies or agents to purchase cattle for export, and
costs are shared by importers and exporters on a transaction-by-transactioni
basis determined in advance.  A substantial part of the importer's payment
may be in the form of merchandise; in these cases, indonesian cattle exporte-r
are, in fact, import agents of Hongkong merchandise exporters.
Ex port and Import Regulations
12.       A number of laws and regulations govern the export of cattle and
buffalo. The laws, which were introduced along with the regulation that
prohibits cross-breeding, on the majority of islands allow only the export
of castrated males; all other animals must be slaughtered locally. Also,
there is a system of annual quotas that restricts exports to 4 to 5% of
total cattle numbers. Figures were at one tinme set at the beginning of
each year by the Central Government but are now established on a regional
basis by local governments. These quotas are however usually higher than
actual exports and, do not, therefore, impede wider exports. Export quotas
for cattle and buffalo and the number actually shipped are shown below:
Qjuota                   Actual Number
Year            Cattle       Buffalo       Cattle       Buffalo
1968 ......      58,125      32,950        34,541       17,967
1969  .......    62,500      37,500        38,191       18,653
1970  .......    75,600      35,000        47,077       31,157
1971 .......    101,000      36,420        39,538 /2   16,231
Source: /1 Ministry of Agriculture - General Directorate
of Livestock Production.
/2 Central Bureau of Statistics.
13.       Disease control regulations require that all animals to be exported
be held for observation and inspection in government quarantine areas for
a minimum of 10 days and that they be vaccinated against septicaemia
haemorrhagica and anthrax. On Bali, the period was originally set at 28
days, but it was reduced to 14 in 1969. The cost per animal in quarantine
in Indonesia is now about Rp 1,450 (US$3.50 ) 1/ and is borne by the
exporter.
14.       Cattle exporters are also subject to certain taxes.  They cannot
retain foreign exchange in or out of the country and must sell all f.o.b.
1/   Average quarantine costs include:  accomodation for 10 days, Rp 150;
feed and water for 10 days; Rp 550 (about 15 to 20 kg grass); labor
costs, Rp 250; vaccination, Rp 250; holcing ground costs - after
quarantine period - regardless of length of stay, Rp 250.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
foreign exchange export revenues to the Bank of Indonesia in exchange for
Rupiahs at the legal foreign exchange rate (Rp 415 = US$1). Ten percent
of the exporter's foreign exchange is also paid as Alokasi Defisa Otmatis
(ADO) tax to the Central Government. For this tax, the f.o.b. price
declared by exporters may not be less than the postulatory price (check
price) periodically determined by the Department of Trade (in 1971, the
check price for cattle was Rp 9,000 per head (US$22). Furthermore, exporters
pay a sales tax (M.P.O.) amounting to 2% of the anount paid for the cattle
(about Rp 300). 1/ Finally, a Livestock Development Tax (CESS) of Rp 500
(US$1.20) per head is levied for the improvement of export facilities. In
1971, quarantine costs and taxes per exported animal totaled up to about
Rp 3,150 (US$7.60) or about 10% of producer prices. Exporters also pay an
"unofficial" fee of about Rp 1,000 (US$2.40) per animal to the shipping
company to insure against delays in loading and departure of the ship since
the amount is considered to be less than the cost and risks associated with
delays.
Transport of Cattle
15.       Transport of cattle and buffalo to importing countries (mostly
to Hongkong) still suffer from a lack of coordination.   While availability
of ships for cattle transport improved considerably in 1971 2/, facilities
remained generally of low standard. During shipment, animals are tethered
in bamboo stalls with little shelter from the elements and they are frequently
crowded and poorly supplied with food and water. Losses during shipment to
Hongkong are estimated at 3 to 5% but may reach 10% during the typhoon season.
In addition, cattle and buffalo can lose up to 15% of their liveweight during
the seven- to 10-day trip.
16.       No central authority or institution exists to organize the flow
of ships or cattle. In some cases, ships fail to arrive on expected dates,
and in other cases, they arrive unexpectedly and there are not enough
cattle available to make up a full load. 3/ Ships also carry general cargo
and normally have no special equipment for holding or loading cattle or
buffalo, which leads to long loading times.
17.       Present freight charges for cattle and buffalo to Hongkong are
about US$30 and to Singapore about US$18, based on a cargo of 500 to 700
animals per trip, and about one-third must be paid in cash in advance of
shipment. Freight rates for inter-island shipment vary between Rs 3,000 and
Rs 5,000 (US$7.00 to US$12.00) per head, irrespective of animal size.
1/   Regulation 16, dated April 17, 1970, Ministry of Trade.
2/   Source:  "Pelgaran Nasional" (PEINI Lines), Jakarta.
3/   Exporters have no claim on the shipping companies for late arrivals but
they have to pay demurrage if cattle are not ready for shipment.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
18.       Special air-conditioned cattle ships are available and, though
their rates are approximately US$10 per head higher than those for the
other ships, they keep to schedule and once a contract is signed, exporters
are not subject to costly delays.  There are also substantial savings due
to reduced weight losses and fewer deaths during transit and in not having
to make extra payments outside the contract rate to ensure service. It is
likely that savings realized could in this way cover the extra costs of
using this class of transport, especially for the proposed project, since
ranches could get together to supply the ship with a full cargo (about 600
to 700 animals). Some of the larger importers in Hongkong themselves prefer
to charter ships and arrange all cargo, including cattle, so that they can
exercise more control over the loading and arrival of animals.
19.       The harbor facilities of South Sulawesi are among the best in
East Indonesia. Besides the two major ports of Makassar and Pare Pare,
however, nearly all coastal towns and villages have some part in coastal
shipping and fishing. Pare Pare, almost unknown at the turn of the century,
grew rapidly for 50 years with the development of its hinterland and
recently has benefited from the growth of export trade in maize to Singapore,
Hongkong, and Japan. Efforts have also been made by private entrepreneurs
to export cattle, mainly to Hongkong. Its port has a quay of 35 meters,
offering space for only one ship at a time, but depth is sufficient for
ships up to 10,000 tons.
D. The Hongkong Market
20.       Since 1966, only four countries have been involved to any extent
in supplying live cattle to the Hongkong market -- The Peoples Republic of
China (PRC), Thailand, Cambodia, and Indonesia -- the latter's share jumping
to about 74,000 in 1970, or about 38% of total imports (Appendix 8-2). Since
the daily slaughter availability in Hongkong of 500 to 600 head tends to
remain relatively steady throughout the year, the main price-determining
factors are the numbers of cattle arriving and the stock in quarantine.
Prices have increased substantially during the past 10 years since demand
for beef is moving ahead of supplies (Appendix 8-2), resulting in the
following average returns for carcass meat:



ANNEX 8
Page 7
Average Price
Average             Average              Assumed        (kg/US$
Price/i       Wholesale Price           Dressing      equivalent
Year      (Picul/HK$)    (kg/US$ equivalent)            (%)        Liveweight)
Carcass Meat
1962  .....   193                 0.57                   43            0.25
1963  .....    225                0.67                   43            0.29
1964          211                 0.63                   43            0.27
1965  .....    187                0.55                   43            0.24
1966  .....    193                0.57                   43            0.25
1967  .....    237                0.70                   43            0.30
1968  .....    227                0.67                   43            0.29
1969  .....    249                0.74                   43            0.32
1970  .....    304                0.90                   43            0.39
1971          352                 1.04                   43            0.45
/1   1 Picul = 100 Keti = 133 pounds = 60.25 kg.  Based on the exchange
rate, HK$5.60 = US$1.00.
21.       Cattle from various parts of Indonesia bring different prices on
the Hongkong market (Appendix 8-3). Bali cattle, with an average liveweight
of about 300 to 370 kg, were sold in 1970 at US$130 to US$140 per head, while
South Sulawesi cattle, weighing about 280 to 300 kg, were around US$120, and
those from Timor, at about 240 to 260 kg, brought US$90 to US$100. In 1971,
prices increased by about 16%, and cattle from Indonesia were sold on average
at about US$140. Bali-type cattle, at that time, were sold at about US$150
to US$160. Prices of cattle imported from different countries also varied,
running to about US$0.50 per kg liveweight for cattle from Indonesia,
Cambodia, and Thailand, and to about US$0.40 for cattle from PRC. The
differences in quality and value of imported cattle from various countries
are evident from 1970 figures. 1/
No. of Imported    Total                          Liveweight
Country             Animals         Value    Value per Animal    per Animal
(%)            (%)      (US$ equivalent)  (CIF lairage kg)
Indonesia             37              45            120               310
Cambodia               8              12            155                360
Thailand              10              20            190                440
PRC                   45              23             55                160
PRC has for years been Hongkong's main supplier of live cattle, although
numbers have been decreasing since 1966. The timing of shipments, however,
1/   Source:   Agriculture and Fisheries Department, Hongkong.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
has reduced the competition for Indonesia since about two-thirds of the
cattle from PRC are shipped from August to January while Indonesia con-
centrates its shipments in the period from February to December.
22.       Hongkong consumers demand lean meat so the buyers prefer heavy
cattle, which are known or assessed to yield a high proportion of such meat.
Heavy weight cattle are preferred due to the per-head charges for slaughtering
and dressing, but buyers will discount what they consider to be overfat
cattle by up to 10%. On these criteria, Bali-type cattle are preferred as
long as they are not too small or overfat. Tenderness of beef and, therefore,
age of animals purchased is of little relevance.
23.       There are no tariffs or duties on imports of live cattle and
buffalo, but regulations call for an import license and a health certificate
from an authorized veterinarian in the exporting country. The diseases
usually mentioned are rinderpest, septicaemia, Dleuro-pneumonia, and foot
and mouth. Animals are placed in approved quarantine areas on arrival, but
there is no minimum period of confinement required for cattle imported from
Indonesia if an Indonesian veterinarian certifies that the animals are
healthy and do not show signs of contagious diseases. Quarantine costs, on
the average, including veterinary charges and feeding, average around US$2.50
equivalent per head.
E. Other Possible Markets
24.       Malaysia is another possible market for Indonesian cattle but
it prohibited cattle imports from Indonesia since 1963 excepting East
Nusa Tenggara. The ban was lifted in 1971 on cattle from Northern Sumatra
which was declared free of foot and mouth disease by a visiting Malaysian
Veterinary Mission. Since then, trial shipments have been made from Medan
to Penang. Singapore also enforces stricter aisease prevention standards
than Hongkong, requiring that only animals from areas that are internationally
recognized as being free from foot-and-mouth disease can be imported (a
certification is required to the effect that the country has been free of
these diseases for six months prior to export). So far, only the eastern
islands of Nusa Tenggara have been able to meet the requirement. 1/ Even
then, all animals are quarantined for a minimum period of 10 days from the
time of arrival. Furthermore, Indonesian expor.ers have, in recent years,
preferred Hongkong to Singapore in order to take advantage of the higher
prices there, i.e. US$1.00 per kg carcass wholesale in Hongkong versus
US$0.90 in Singapore. Moreover, the compulsory 10-day quarantine period
in Singapore and Malaysia increases costs by at least about US$3 to US$4
over those in Hongkong.
1/   Indonesia exported 10,120 cattle and buffalo to Singapore in 1968,
6,180 in 1969, and 6,728 in 1970.



ANNEX 8
Page 9
25.       Other possible future markets would be the Philippines, the
Republic of China (Taiwan), Japan, and Korea. Export to these countries,
however, would probably call for frozen beef, for which no adequate processing
facilities now exist. Also, livestock disease conditions would have to be
brought under tight control, and the availability of stock would have to be
increased before such potential market outlets could be explored. Singapore,
Malaysia, and Japan do not impose tariffs or duties on imported live cattle
from Indonesia, but import licenses are required. Duties are levied on
imported cattle in the Philippines.
F. Project Impact on MIarketing
26.       Marketing and exporting of cattle and buffalo are entirely in the
hands of private firms, and, though the system is characterized by many
middlemen, it still functions relatively efficiently and competition is
keen. It would, therefore, be risky indeed for the new company to be formed
under the Project to immediately try to export cattle to Hongkong on its own,
since the exporters - no matter how competitive they are among themselves -
would hardly accept a newcomer. However, these exporters would undoubtedly
offer higher prices for animals to ranchers under the Project since they
would be able to buy in larger lots instead of having to go about the
countryside purchasing animals by ones and twos. Likewise, transporting
animals to importing markets would be much more efficient when ships could
be chartered a year in advance for full cargoes (600 to 700 animals) and
departure and arrival dates scheduled regularly.
27.       Cattle exported from Indonesia under Project would be competitive
on the Hongkong market.  The landed cost of a 380 kg steer on the Hongkong
market is estimated at US$140 and the sale value at US$173 leaving a US$22
margin of profit. This estimate includes a 10% allowance for shortage and
a 4% allowance for mortality.
May 8, 1972






APPENDIX 8-l
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
CATTLE NUMBERS IMPORTED INTO HONGKONG
1962 - 1971
Other
Year       PRC.11     Thailand      Cambodia       Indonesia      Countries       Total
1962      15,129       54,556         36,093         5,160         14,674        125,612
1963      22,559       34,798        41,832         4,398          12,874        116,461
1964      46,146       51,314         6,176         26,909         11,478        142,023
1965      88,128       40,964          9,267        34,043          2,514        174,916
1966     118,111       36,182        11,845         25,013           -           191,151
1967      98,821       31,102        20,352         20,022           -           170,297
1968     103,590       18,110        18,144        42,539            -           182,383
1969      99,057       18,590        21,071        53,804            -           192,522
1970      84,656       19,178        16,377         73,922           -           194,133
1971      85,158       20,620          2,216        70,703           -           178,697
Source:  Agriculture and Fisheries Department, Hongkong
1/ Peole's Republic of China
April 26, 1972



APPENDI X-
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
ANNUAL PER CAPITA MEAT CONSUMPTION IN HONGKONG
1962 - 1969
Estimated                  Per Capita Consumption of Meat
Mid-Year                 Poultry, and Fish (Kgs. per Year)-I
Population
Year            ('000)              Live         Frozen        Total       % Change
1962            3,347               59.5          12.8         72.3           -
1963           3,504                65.1          12.3         77.4         + 7.1
1964           3,594                70.1          14.5         84.6         + 9.3
1965           3,692                73.1          16.5         89.6         + 5.9
1966           3,732                74.5          18.0         92.5         + 3.2
1967           3,834                69.6          18.8         88.4         - 4.4
1968           3,925                75.7          19.6         95.3         + 7.8
1969           3,990                77.2          20.5         97.7         + 2.3
Source: Agriculture and Fisheries Department, Hongkong
1/ It is estimated that beef represent 10% of 1969
consumption.
May 15, 1972



APPENDIX 8-3
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
AVERAGE WHOLESALE PRICE (CIF) IN HONGKONG
(HR$ per Picul 1/ of Carcass Weight)
1970                                        1971
Other                                       Other
Local       PRC2/  Countries  Overall    Local          PRCI/   Countries  Overal
Jan.           287         273        309        292        380       370          391        380
Feb.           227         225        255        247        380       375         422         400
Mar.            331        332        356        350        415       372          380        378
Apr.           319         317        352        344        431       361          398        389
May             256        252        276        270         309      317          377        358
Jun.            342        321        346        337        288       281          370        350
Jul.            287        291        316        330        364       347          401        386
Aug.            268        269        309        298        321       318          378        359
Sep.           265         255        289        271        257       253          341        286
Oct.           266         249        286        260        265       263          350        285
Nov.           322         322        342        328        339       325          395        343
Dec.           364         348        373        355        352       351          392        363
Average         295        288        318        307        342   l  328           383        357
Source: Agriculture and Fisheries Department, T-longkong
1/ 1 picul = 133 lbs. or 60.26 kgs.
2/ Peoples Republic of China
April 26, 1972






APPENDIX 8-4
Page 1
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
AN APPRAISAL OF THE DEMAND FOR IMPORIS OF LIVE CATTLE
IN HONGKONG, 1970-1980
1.        The Crown Colony of Hlongkong is the major traditional importer
of live cattle and buffalo in the Far East. Meat consumption there increased
at an average rate of 5.5 percent a year during the 1960's. Recent projections
prepared by the Economic Research Center of the Chinese University of
Hongkong 1l indicate that meat consumption snould continue to grow at the same
rate during the 1970's. This estimate is collaborated by other projections
of growth in meat consumption during the next ten years in East Asia. 2/ In
the past, meat consumption in Yongkong increased principally because of larger
consumer purchasing power, although the consumer clearly reacted to favorable
meat prices when these were offered him, too.  Statistics on beef consumption
in Hlongkong are scarce but recent estimates by the Department of Agriculture
and Fisheries indicate total usage in 1970 amounted to approximately 78 million
pounds, or 16 percent of total contemporary meat consumption. By 1980, beef
consumption should total 140-175 million pounds, the latter figure being
consistent with the assumption that 20 percent rather than 16 percent of
total meat consumption will consist of beef.
2.        Lack of beef supplies rather than consumer preference for other
meats explains the current relatively modest level of per capita beef con-
consumption in Hongkong. Strong effective consumer demand for beef there is
indicated by the fact that wholesale beef prices during the early 1960's in-
creased faster than did most indicators of retail food prices. Furthermore,
wholesale beef prices increased nearly 60 percent between 1967 and 1970,
while the volume of live cattle imported increased slightly. Shipments from
the People's Republic of China, Thailand, and Cambodia declined on balance
during this period, and imports from Indonesia apparently did not increase
sufficiently to meet demand.
1/   Long-Term Economic and Agricultural Commodity Projections for Hongkong,
1970, 1975, and 1980, November 1969: A contract study by the Economic
Researclh Center of the Chinese University of Hongkong for the United
States Department of Agriculture.
2/   Growth in W4orld Demand for Feed Grains, FAER No. 63, U.S. Department of
Agriculture, Washington, D.C., 1970.



APPENTDIX 8-4
Page 2
3.        By 1980, annual import requirements should amount to approximately
350,000 head of live cattle and buffalo, compared with current levels of
slightly more than 200,000 animals. Current development plans indicate that
Thailand may increase shipments of live cattle and buffalo to Hongkong by
20,000-30,000 head by 1976. Indonesian exporters should anticipate acquiring
a sizeable share of the rest of the increase in sales to this market. Speci-
fically, no marketing problems should be anticipated for the incremental
production attributable to this project. This project should have no measu-
rable impact on international prices or trade in beef or live cattle.
Trade Policies and Export Projections Division
Economics Department
June 6, 1972



AETEx 9
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
FTINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN FROM INVESTMENTS AND OPERATIONS
OF THE
EASTERN INDONESTA BEEF CATTLE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
(US$'000 equivalent)
Operating     Operating      Investment       Residual
Years     Sales      Expenses         Income         Cost         Herd Value    Cash Flow
1         0.6              -           o.6         (634.6)               -       (634.o)
2        96.6                          96.6      (1,264.7)               -    (1,168.1)
3       230.7                        230.7       (1,585.6)               -    (1,354.9)
4       418.1              -         418.1       (1,436.5)               -    (1,018.4)
5       610.2       (4o6.8)          203.4         (910.4)               -       (707.0)
6     1,003.0        (902.5)         100.5         (422.8)               -       (322.3)
7     1,415.2      (1,256.4)         158.8          (99.4)               -         59.4
8     1,717.0      (1,237.1)         479.9               -               -        479.9
9     1,731.3      (1,064.3)         667.0               -               -        667.0
10     1,640.4        (923.9)          716.5               --                      716.5
11     1,615.6        (845.2)          770.4               -              -        770.4
12     1,590.7        (794.4)          796.3               --                      796.3
13     1,553.4        (751-1)          802.3               -              -        802.3
14     1,489.0        (732.1)          756.9               --                      756.9
15     1,489.0        (749.5)          739.5                              -        739.5
16     1,526.4        (811.5)          714.9                              -        714.9
17     1,577.1        (792-1)          785.o                              -        785.o
18     1,614.5        (787.0)         827.5                               -        827.5
19     1,614.5        (786.0)         828.5                --                      828.5
20     1,656.1        (786.0)          870.1               -              -        870.1
21     1,712.4        (826.3)          886.1               -              -        886.1
22     1,754.0        (864.3)          889.7               --                      889.7
23     1,754.0        (872.1)          881.9               -              -        881.9
24     1,754.0        (863.1)          890.9                              -        890.9
25     1,797.6        (834.5)          963.1               -              -        963.1
26     1,856.9        (850.7)       1,oo6.2                --                    1,006.2
27     1,900.5        (859.2)       1,041.3                -              -      1,041.3
28     1,900.5        (865.5)       1,035.0                               -      1,035.0
29     1,900.5        (877.7)       1,022.8                --                    1,022.8
30     1,900.5        (877.7)       1,022.8                -        1,266.4      2,289.2
31     1,334.7        (536.8)          797.9               -        1,732.7      2,530.6
32       565.8        (215.2)          350.6               -        1,266.4      1,617.0
FINANTCIAL RATE OF RETURN 10%
September 20, 1972






INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
PASTURE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
OF A 12,000-HA BREEDING/FATTENING RANCH IN SOUTH SULAWESI
--------------------------------------------------  Y E A R S  ---------------------------------------------------------
Category                        Unit         1          2         3          4         5          6         7          8          9        10         11        12 Onwards
Unimproved   ........ ..............      Ha        9,650      5,850        -         -          -         -          -         -          -          -          -
Fenced and Watered   ..... .........    Ha          2,100      4,550     8,600      6,800     5,000      5,000      5,000     5,000      5,000      5,000        -           -
Oversown & Topdressed:
0 - 1 year ....................         Ha          450      1,350      1,800     1,800      1,800       -          -         -          -          -          -           -
1 - 2 years .......... Ha                         -          450     1,350      1,800     1,800      1,800        -         -          -          -         -            -
2 years    .... ... ....                Ha          -          -         450      1,800     3,600      5,400      7,200     7,200      7,200      7,200       -            -
Estimated Carrying Capacity l/           A.U.       3,787      4,089     5,510      6,590     7,850      9,200      9,920     9,920      9,920      9,920     9,920           -
Animal Units Carried during Year 2/       A.U,       1,317     3,421     4,741      6,290      7,427     8,800      9,589     9,587      9,667      9,806      9,478        9,300
11  Based on the following estimates:
(a)  Unimproved natural pasture. 0.3 A.Uha
(b) Fenced and watered: 1st and 2nd year, 0.35 A.U./ha
3rd year onwards, 0.4 A.U./has
(c) Toodressed and oversown: 1st year, 0,35 A.U./ha
2nd year, 0.7 A.U./ha
3rd year, 1.1 A.U./ha
2/  All animals over 1 year estimated as 1 A.U.
Includes 50% of deaths and sales for the year.






Ua1s .>YYt                          4                        N)                                             -    .>>*F 
m ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ 0                       HOo .0                   t$''10 w   . .  w .t w   9   .o ¢    .  w      OU 9     ) ,1
b ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 01 .000 .00                                                                   .000D  0 U _ 
000000*0)...01                                                                      00t00                    0*10:  ze.,  
=-      ~          ~          0           100   0.:::  wN  0)             0.0::  0~::      .o:::                  o: : .
H;-~~~~~~~ ,.,t,::     -u~ ::                  0           :: 0:: 0            0        0                  001
n ~   ~    ~     000            *.              000..                                            0....
.'                      '         O        '                                  0  ...:::   ::  
co ~ ~     ~     ~    ooO          . a.             to0   . o. c0                                     l*D).
0 0    0. .. .         ..             0.. ..        .          . . . .             t   .  .   ..... 
. ~ ~    ~    ~    0 .           . . .. . .           . .. . . .                  .   ..   .N..    .           
0          o         0      °    )      -          t    ro    -     N)       -         N)  0        N)        0  !  
0)  I *NOJ  I        II         N)   *N~           II         N   ol         I         o    )        I         I 1
_)      N)t    toN              N)      zo       to          0'  )0N    04 o.              tos| c Sse@°         
='       _0    ON)              _'    N0       Ot             N)  tN    Ot            to  O'        _         O          O
O.4|__g|      )  4'    N)o)     N)    N)    )0               0D  to    0                                s1)4                         LS  1                a       
N)   _I)rNl _0  IN) _                   t O      I        to  0$  I- W    I p1                 ) Pll                  I o
_~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~                                                                                      ~~~~~~ __  _0__)__
_, _  _1s^1D N  ll~s        1@|2        1111  
_   | | t | | _ s W0   -  o  oo N o   o   No  _                                                >                    o~~~~~~~0' 
_   _  __   _         _   _+                                                                             O   
% _ ~~I                  tO  tOl IOsI    0   I         to  .,l,    III    ,         ,111                IllIS                      0  
0)  I O   SI I                   I      ~                                                                                            1, 0,
N)    41) 4O p           o          o)0  osO           0'  N) °p   o                                                                                    0'       0        ~|saa
°       N -.-  °N) .0                                                                                                                             -           0    I~~IN|
r N)4 |t       0)                 0'        0)0                                                                                                         10wH     O so0  0   o fi O o >1 
_) 1101.1          _ o  _I  Il.t  _I                to   I ^toto   I          tor -t.   _I           r1   e
o  N)           tN        '    70'            OO to          g' tooW to               0        to             o     l4N
._, ~  ~     ~     N ..                          .-                                               NO N-                N- N



0, -
a                                                                                           tO
.10000   '0                    .-tOOO>0  0-                  .1010000'  0'                  HOttot 0  0                   H .00000
.lOtoOO   0.                0 t0c                         N,t0                         NOOtO 0,                      N0000
001000                        0S000   5                    0,0000   .0
00*OtOt   0-                   00000'                        0000.   o.                     00-000-   0'                    0000    0'
t.            000         0>                  ..0   0.0   0-0'              o,0  0.0,   0o               00.0  0.0  0-                   "00.0
0           >t-0                                             0       '0
N       0                              0                     N        0                     N       0                     N        0
0                              0                             0                              o                              0
0.              .              0.                  .                              .         0.                             0.
000000.                        000000...                     0000005...                     00000C*                        C00000.
ottotoOCl 00. . .             00400000. . . .                00.404000'. . . .              00100000'.
0       00...                  0       0N      . .           0        0N   . . .            0                              0       00
006  So0* . . .              -,    *oO.  . . .              Oil    00....                  0,0  O00*
-    00....                    -                                      000....               -    00....                    -    00...
.c'c'aoo. . . .                  .0<00....                                                                                 HH'000.
*         0.                   .         0. . . .            .          0  . . .                     CI .   .                      0
-.                                             00
-   0t*  5000'   060               *16Sto00   000            00  066600.0   600                 000  OUtdO   600           tO  00001.4.0   001             00
to          004to             toO          0.t0to            '0          .JO.00            to           totoOt                        toUtto
to        00        to        00        to         to        to        to        to        to         -         to
V
00  00000010001                00    SOO 0000000             00  066W   0066006            to  00 00060  lOtoOt           to   00't00IIto0
to                 too        00         0         00        0         00         0
00        0         00        04         0         00        0         0          0
to   0  toO',,       00        to  I 00010*         56       -   0 600'0  6       00        0   6000O66         66        00  0 OCt00  6       0
F;0
to     toM      toto          to       --      toot          -        0000    toOt          to      toO     000'          to       -40'    00'
to      otto    040           00       cc      toot          0        0-U,    toO           00      otto                  00       000    040'
IL
0'  5  toO  'to   to,,        to   S 60000   006*            00  060604   to06              to   500050066                 0   0000,01          00
to     to    otto-o           0       -     otoot           0        to    oJOC            ot      to   toOOto.          to       0'    00000'
to     00    "tWO              04      0     0004            -        00   toO00           to      00   tooflb           to       00    UtUta
to S toO 00  000    to I 0000106006                          - OSCO 06050                   0 6000060066    00 0604006100
'0     '000    to             00       040.   to              4      0000    00             04      040    to             to       0000    -
to      010    00             to       000    00             0        0000    00            00      00      to             -       000    '0
0'      0'                     00      00                     00     00                     00      00                     0'     to-
0'-         0'                 000         0'                .000        .0.                0'          .0                0'          0'
00  Stoto,   0  0.05          to   StoolS.   too,            to   00.0606    tolO           0'  itootS OS   0'O           to  O0'toIOS   tot,
0000      toto?         04   toot        to04          00   0004        toM           00   toto       0to           to    00'       00'
0.0..     0-too         0'    000       toO.)          00   0400       toot           04    00        0404           0     toO       00
0'        000'                00         0000                *0'       000.0                00        0000                 0'        0.00'
*    toi   00   toO  6        6    toSOIS    00,6            6    00560  *t0to0  S          B    000665 0t0-U06 I          0    0-0,0.    toOl
0000          00              00to          to                00
00                            00                                                       00  00 0'040000     7;II2I.,              00;
0                              0                                                        00
S000000100                    6666560000                    5656,5  0"to00            00  00S0  .00U0             00
0.  ,oS0    0-00.           0-  ,o*  6,,    00600          00  055550    to000            to  0556,0    00604                650005    01000               too
0               0'00to        0                .0.00000      0               .0.000000      0'
0                             0          -                 .   5                          0   0       0                  0   0
0   500  00000000000           00  66560  60000000           00  006666000-00               too  6,066600000104            0-  065056  O'.00OO3
.0              000toO        04              00000000      00               00000.000     00                                             00.00.t
0000000       00              0000000
0000                          0000                           000'                           0000                           0000
00                            00                             00                            00                             0'
00                                                           0                                                                 
O                                                            0
"t ,f'dV



1    2
SALES
Cull Co.s     ,.,.,.-                                                      4.6
Hiefers I - 2 years               .          .-                            0.5
Hiefers 2 - 3 years   .                 .-    -
Steers 2 - 3 years                .          .-
Steers 3 - 4 years                .          .-    -
Bulls                                                          0.3         0.8
Sub-total                                       0.3         5.9
Purchased Feeder Steers        ,   ,                           -         42.0
Total                                           0.3       47.9
OPERATING COSTS
Annual Gracing Rights - Usufruct Fee
Wages _/                  .....
Pasture Haintenance .2
Veterinary Expenses _/            . . .
Operating Expenses for Vehicle
Vehicles '.
Replacement of Machinery and EquiPment 6/,
Maintenance of Ranch Investments -/
Miscellaneous 8  ,.. ................
Sub-total
Purchased Steers
Total
1/ Considered as development costs during first four years of operations,
2/  10% increase in real terms assumed every fifth year.
3/ 50 kg triplesuperphosphate per ha annually, US$ 4.00; labor and machis
cost annually per ha, US$ 1.75. 10% higher costs from Year 16.
4/  Veterinary cost per A.U., US$ 1.20 from Year One to Ten; US$ 1.50 fro
Year 11 to 20; US$ 1.80 from Year 21 to 30.
5/ 107. incrense from Year 11 and Year 21.
6/  Trade in value of worn out equipment and vehicles considered as compe
for any price increase of purchased replacement.
June 89 1972






a
INDONESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
PASTURE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
OF A 12,000-HA BREEDIWN/FATTENINC RANCH IN SUMBA
--------------------------------------------------    Y     F    A     R    S  -----------R S-- - - -    -    -     -     -
Category                         Unit         1          2         3          4         5          6          7         8          9        10         11        12 Onwards
Unimproved  .......    ................   Ha        7,000      2,000        -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -             -
Fenced and Watered ..............         Ha        4,000      7,000      7,500     6,000      4,500     4,500      4,500     4,500      4,500      4,500     4,500         4,500
Oversown and Topdressed:
0 - 1 year    ............I........    Ia          1,000     2,000      1,500     1,500      1,500       -          -          -         -                     -             -
I - 2 years ....................    Ila             -        1,00()  2,000        1,500      1,500     1,500        -          -         -          -         -              -
2 years ...                     ,       Ila         -          -        1,000     3,000     4,500      6,000      7,500     7,500      7,500      7,500     7,500         7,500
Estimated Carrying Capacity 1/            A.U./ha   2,360      2,860     4,1?5      5,100      5,925     6,675      7,125      7,125     7,125      7,125     7,125          7,125
Animal Units Carried during Year 2        A.U.         812     2,294      3,849     4,958      5,676     6,354      6,833      6,833     6,839      6,853      6,816         6,834
1/ Based on the following estimates:
(a) Unimproved pasture 0.18 A.U./ha.
(b) Fenced and watered 1st and 2nd year, 0.2 4.U./ha.
3rd year onward, 0.25 A.U./ha.
(c)  Topdressed and oversown:  lst year, 0.3 A.U./ha.
2nd year, 0.5 A,U./ha.
3rd year, 0.8 A.U./ha.
2/  All animals over I year old estimated at 1 A,U.
Includes 507. of deaths and sales for the year.






XIS.                              0                              0                                   
|. oJ4                                                                                                                                   0 ) _42e_ N ___     a__u    
Z sII'   _                                oo          's8Oee@||1 8  ° 
Iual~~~ 4  _4 s  _||s       ____ 
.|   O                            0       _      4.'                           O                          e     ) l*4l            _              _    44104 o U
l4            1         -      |     44        _S          _      ~      4     I a I     S  r            4  o.4  _11                _         .4l    11 1
0**                                                1   04           4                  01.1                       4    44l1| 4                          4Q 44                        0o°@
@1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           4 I  I n                                    - 
Hs ~~~~Jf                                                     I                            IS   G          O      04                4             *40              r       4              444s          I_ S -
a   |  q  I  j | | B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~44                                  I   I   I  4              0441      S   I   I   I      _         "0    _ 4''  4  a '''  _     4   Df 
-~     ~~~ 4      o                   0          C         4            4       e                              4           4    4.0         _      4   -Xu
__ aa*     .1           4    4           _           -       4        e _           4    I 
f   a   O        <               a               g         a       0¢             _             a         -              rl4  C  40         4
: 11                               11 1                   1111111                                             sv   ~                       cc                       zw 4  0"  44   o|  4  4_
0 ~ ~   ~     ~ 0  4         4    4               4         4a                                                           C                 _ 4 
~~~~~~30  44            44                      0       44       e 4                      444          .               .         44,4..
1411  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  411  -l    4  411     411    4                III          4l11        4             III       441111    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: :    -            2: :    $n>
_ Q < _ X _ N '000                                                               00000                                     00000
''..a '*'fi a o ' '  1  _ 1r1 
°I 41                                                            aa                                   aa                           :    aa
-0 -*    *4    C             0              ..      C                      ..         C       0                              V0 
c 04 *4                              00451              a          0 4                                                              4aVaCav     
-    C0 1 0               C    0    e4                               a                               C4~0                              4    04         | :aCa0CXACa|      C<  



Breoii:g  Cord~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~dg                                       ,I
6th YEAR
P-th - .   ......   ..-....   ..........8                                                                                                                                                                   8          1,531         1,539
Weaned      .      .....    ....I-                                   1,352             -                  -                  -                  -                  -                                 -         1,352              -          1.352
Sate               ..I-                                                                       C29)               (25)                -C256)                             )401)             7158)               10i)     (879)           1200        ( 2079)
Deaths .........34)                                                                        11)              S9)               )11)               5 I)                C  )             (4)              (  )          S)            531)        5119)
Traoafera      -a.Breeing.Cost505                                              --(500)                                                        -         -                                   -----
To Coil Cows    .......                          2127           -               -                  -                  -                                                      2 1 2--
Ta.I-2 - Idr. .aids                             -          5 1,143)             011                -                 572                                   ----                                                           --
T.2-3ye.old.             -...                                   -            (495)                 495             (022)                52 2------
Ta 3-4 ye. aIde           -...-                                 -               -                  -                 -                5 420)               420-----
At tEd                                                 1,685          1,352              531                461               561                 256               -                 208              53        5,107           1,500         6,602          6,354               6,625
7th SEAR
at h-as       ....es  ..           .-....-..-...-                                                                                                                -                          -                  B            B          1,428         1,436
Wes.           ......d.. .........1,609                                                                                                                                                                                1  --    --  BO    -          1,609
sales           . ......11......         .-                                    -              534)               522)                -5270)                             (240)             5208)              11i)      (795)         51,500       )2,295)
Death,              ..38)                                                      -(3(19)                                              1i4)              (ii)                 )5)              (5)       )       (1        (7(2)                         (I25
Teet  fe: Ta Dreding Cow .             .....461                                --(461)                                               --                          -                          -                            ---
Ta Coil Ca-e    .......                          258)           -                                  ---                                  -                                    258-                                         --
Sal-lye       , ads      ...                    -         (0,352)              676                -                 676                -                           -        -----
Ta2      3Sy-.aId.    ....                                      -             (531)                531             (561)                561                ------
Ta3-4y,.1 ads    ....-                                                          -                  -                 -                (256)                256-----
Ta Soils        .........                       -               -----                                                                   -                 5 11)              -                1                              
At Ead                                                 iBSO0          i,609              629               494                662                275                -                 253              60       1,852            0,400         7,232          6.833               7,125
0th YCAB
P-rh-a-nas... .......                                           -              -               -                  -                  ----                                                                      8           8             Bi6           824
Weand      ....I....             .-.......1,758                                                -------                                                                                                                 1,258              -1,258
OsMas          ...............           .-                                    -                40h)             S3i)                -                  ;25)            5260)             5253)            71.2)       5921)         5 1,40)    52,521)
Deaths ..                             5 11)            -              5 ~~~~            ~~~~~       ~      ~~~~~       ~     ~~~~          ~~15)  512)  516)  513)  (5)  56)        51)        5189)            5i)          512)
Teso.. at Ta Beadtag Casts               ..                     494            --5494)-----                                                                                                                              ---
Ta Coil Casts    .......                         303)           ------                                                                                                       305----
Ta I-2 ye. aids    .....                                     1,609)             804                -                 805                -                  ------
Ta2-3 ye   aId.    ...-..                                                       629)               629             5662)                662------
Ta.3 -4 yr.  aids    .....                                                      -                  -                 -                52675)               275-----
Ta Boils  -....-.....-                                                            -                                                                         t-o                              -lo-    0    -                    
At Ead                                                 1,998          1,758              749                586                789               324                -                 299              65       6,568              888         7,368          6,833               7,125
9th SlAB
Pareh .. ...  ...........-                                                    -                --                                   -                  -                  --                                  a            8             518           SiB
-end .-...............1,938                                                                   --                          -                            -                 -                 -               -          1,938                         1,938
Sala.....I...............-                                                                    544)              5113)                -5307)                             (305)             5299)             )13)   (1,161)             (800)    51,96i)
Deaths      ...............( 44(                                               -                17)              (14)               5 i)               516)                (6)              (7)              51)       5 i23)              10I)      (133)
Tesasfees:   Ta B-eding Casts              ....586                             --5586)                                               -----                                                                                                -             -
T.aCollC           I......(-362)                                ----                                                                     -                                    62----
Ta 1-I ye. ai ds.....-                                     (1,758)              879                -879----                                                                                               ---
T.2-3y-aIds ......(749)                                                                            249             5789)                789------
Ta.3-4 ye. aids.-.....-.-.5324)                                                                                                                            324-----
To Boils  .....-......-                                                                                               -                  -                C13)               -                 13         ---
At  E~d                                                2.178          1,938              BiB                602                B61                386                -                355               72       2,230              500        2,730          6,839               7,125
10th YEAR
Porh-...........                    .-..-.-...                                                                                                                                              -8                              B             204           212
Beo_d    ..............-..-.......-.2-10                                                                                                                                                                               2,100              -           2,100
Salts      -.........I....               .-                                    -              548)              5 74)                -5422)                              736))              3 35 5            14)  51,539)              C500)    52,038)
Beatha      ...t.           .........    .5 40)                                -518)                             516)               (19)               5 I)                  8 )            C8)              52)       C136)              74)           1 40)
Te..f_r:   Ta Beedi-g Cows             ..I..                    622            --                                 622)                         -                                         -                       - -----~ 
To Celia Cos-       ......                       420)           ----                                                           -                                             420---- 
TaI-2ye aIds             .....                               1.938)             969                -                  969                         -..                        -----
Te.2       y-  y.1 ads    ...           .                       -             5 BI)                818                8 61)              861                .                                       
Ta3-4yr.1ads.-..-....-                                                                                                -               (386)                 306.-.-
Ta Boils.-                                               -.-...-....13 --                                                                                                    -
At Cad                                                  2.332          2,000             903                468                950                422                                 412               77       7 ,6 64            .             94           6.853               7,125



-- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -  B re ding   i1e,d  --- - - - -  --  -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - -  - - -
listesStees -                                                                                                     NB-te  of Antols  oR-,eh                     ",rrin. Capacity
Breeding                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fatt..tng~i  Breedin,g  Feder  lard              Pee
tees .8!    Calves  1 - 2  2/     2-3 yr.           1- 2 yra.         2 - 3 yre.        3- 4 yra.         Cell Cow        Bulls          Bard         Steers       Toa         Bstem ts             aeeean
(4.0)          t.  (AU.)
1mbh YEAS
Weav ed            .........SIB..-........- 2-10                                                                                                                                                           2,100             -          2,100
Sales       ......... .........)..52)                                                                    C418                -)                466)            )  06)          )412)            C14)       1 i768)         C200)    C1,968)
Desb.the.....                  ...48)                                                      20 T)            117)            )21)              C19)               )  )             (  )     )        2)     ( 143)            -          )143)
Iranafer:  To Broding Cows468                                             --( 468)                                                    -        --                                                ----
To Coil.Cos...                                420)          ---                                                -                 -                                   20----
To I -2 yr   ld.-                                         2,100)         1.050               -                .050                                 ------
To 2- 3 yr .o1de. .....-                                                 C903)               903) 950)                           950--                                                         --                     
To 3 -4 yr. olds. ......-                                                                    -                 -                 422)             422--                                                                     -
T. Bll.1..........                            -             -              -                 -                 ---               -                 i Wi-B                                                             
Ar Cn.d                                             2,332         2,100             9iB               41,8            1,029              465               -412                              77      7,861             -7,861                    6,816              7,125
12th YEARW1
W _eane .-....t..............-.-.2,1.0 2                                                                                                                                                                                                2,100
Sales.-                                -             1 52)            ) 4921              -              ) ~~~~~          ~~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~~~544  ) 44    41))  4    )19022))  -    1922)
leslie.i ~~~~                                             ~      ~      ~~~~~~~48) -   20)    1W)              !)       21)C2)            )         9)            )  )      )       2)      ) 147)-)                       147)
.rnfs    To..   redgCos46W                                                                              468ISi)                    -                                       ---                            ---
To CoIl Cows    .1 ~~~~~~420)                    -----                                                       -                                          420--                                                    -
2oI      '  rlds-                                  121               1.050               -                 057                                                                                                    
...3.r...d .-                                               )978)               970            1,029)            1,029-                                               ----
T3-4yrol.  .......-                                                                                  -               C465)              465--                                        ---
IBol.-...-...-. I-                                                                                      -                 -                 ) B)             -                 B         -              --
Al tis,d                                           21.332         2, 120(           918               468             1,0)9               5104                              412              72       7,900             -7,900                   6,834               7,125
~/ ir-din   coW-rWrcoe                o   i.0                                                                                                               evv,. -collo    -od  -oerelr   caofaeasClloct
2)  50   ist   -   esodble,s  dino    tet                           r  for bleedlo,g  tvysas                                                                                                                                                    CCIS5CAI O4EFFICIENTS
All01    ..er   arr sol  asln         v,t oI 380 kg.  115  oI            i   ttlr    by------------Y  -                                                                                                                                                         ----     -------
on-fvni   l   e 23 yea  old   lreden    rm 1  nd5avbytl
ithe2-3  Yrrsldeosla             6towada    Tootitsteee                ldivsyoe1                                                                                                                                      2      3    4      5    6    7       B     9   10   11    12-30
.4/  UtoIlcove are laseneti for above  I ya.Wte-lvB  WRe %I                                                                                                                                                      WO   8B    80   25   20    70   75    75   73    75   75            75
"I A laslo     osrstegri  yrer-sc-rov_idlerr IaAasllt'Io55   10.::                                                                                        m--sllty  ateT                                           1     4     3    3      3     2    2      2    2      2     2      2
io_a   A.t    nldsS) oIrah, and aale. dorlog  hie  er.CoIling Oats 7.-  Breeding Cow                                                                                                                            II   II    10   10   10   11    12    13   14    15   13           1
Holfers                          5     5     5    5    3        5    5      5    5      5     5     55
Balls                            15   15    15   15    15    15   15   15    15   1)   15           15
i/ All breeding 00ev b-oght Iv calf.
7/  i.vtrotnivy rose was 1ainylatdoa
Isles 5 101
CloaeB  Inentry  t end of yea  + (Salsa + Deths) dorieg yvar
Free year 12 os-e-rde woold be abo-t 19'S.






1  6  7                                                                                                                              20                                 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20890   2.2  92  02314  00
70 A 12 000-lA 2886D7007003020181 2.2800 311 127190~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~T'l                                    1,:,   I': l ~1 I    1 
912 1          1          11       21         2.  21               A                              0 11 1    ~ 1:        2:          1      11~ 
4  2  0  4  5       8          7         8         8         10        11         12        10        14         15        11         17        II        13        20         21        22         23        24         39         51        20        22         29        0022  2  2: ~  2
8,8.2 -9,0.-                                                            04        0.          .         .         .          .         .        70        2.        26.6       26.6      26.1      2~1,6      28.       080       2.         2.         8 229.3             23.0       2.1:      23.        20.       31.0:     31.0       3.000                3.
12,,o. 0 -4 8,,o8.-                    -         -        25.2       26 0      51.0       22.1      21.7       22.1      53.1      41.0       45.0      45.0      45.2       45.2      00-   5   40.7       49 75.    46.7       48.0      54.5       54.7      54.7      54.7       54.7       00.0      80.0.7  .  10.0      10.0U     10.0
.....0.2..5.05.0.1                                                                          0.6..0.0..1.0                             1.1..2.12                      1Ij .  210          1.         8.2       1.         1,5       t         1.      ..t.         2.4_   4    4                   I. 4.     2.4        1.        1.          48.
129-202.                 2.2       3.0        8.3      32.4      00.8       75.~3     002       7.0        61.      15.0       14.05      5.        150.5      -18.     155.5      705.0    165.6    46.8         11.0      11.0        109.9    182        0         179.    -.8 172.6    15     4.3 4.5       1845-      0  5.    190.5
. ... ...  ......1....-                              M35.      58.4       152       8.        180.4     19.        828.8      53.6      46.        21.                                                                                                                                                                                               
Tolol.0.2                                    59.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1_   58.0  00.1  19.  1812       20. 2      00.       28.2       08.      141.7      150.3     155 5     78.        155        1  I8      - 18.8   49.8       110        15.0     176.      37.         10.       179.      179.8      915.      194.3     184.5       195       184.5
05  05        033 9                           0         0            I03     05        0           .
42   609608 8~~ .        -          -         -         -          0.5       0.3        0.0       05         00        03        00         00        05        03         55        00        00         03        00        215       15.0       20.7      19.        2 29.0    229.7      21.1      21.1      81,1       24,1       24
08810218877,4.74.37.-                    -          -         -         24.8      50.1      30.2       30.0      00.3       39 1      53.1      05.7       55.14     55.0      53.313     51.4 3331.4396.4               904        31.4.431.4:96.4                98.4      91.4 U36.4           91.4       51.4      51364      564       588
1100017.0 8,opoo.. 4/ .-                                     -          7 1       09         3.7       88        8.3        9.       11.0       110       71.8      1.1        11.5      11 0      11.        11.9     ~            0.6      10.2      84.2       148714.2             4.2        142        41.24    14.1        4.2      142
09o70oo0.o'2OIo.          ...0, .....--.-                                             5.7       1.          .         .         .          .         .          .         .         .          .         .         .          .         .          .         .5~   5.5           5.7        4.1       6.1        5.7I      1.1       6. .13
1l80lo.o   0188.                                                            -         05         05        0.....5                        05..0...                                   .5       05         75        0.         .          .5       05         0 0.5                 5        0.. 5       5          .5       0.5       0.a.                 2.
2oo~~~~~~~4.,o0 50117,                              -                   90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.1  811.  75.0  402  27.0   30.8       -          9-       79         -                   -1         -5        -4         -4        -        I.         9.           -          -359.                                                         3.
o....   .....s........                                                                 M1305     15        45.       12.        10.        358        1,        797       7.         8.0        38       2.9         34       89.4       554        -54      10.4       31-04                20.8       91.8      03.5       332      9.          32       0.
57578720 10010  .812   I  028g    0924   I..






1  2      3         4         ~~        ~     ~ ~       ~ ~~           ~    ~ ~            ~~~5  6  7  $ 9  60 1  22 1      4        12         16        27         1         69         20        21         22        2Z4                  2          26        27        2           9        22
46120g  1 7   .                 -         -          -         -         6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~6.2  ~ 68.4  66.4  36.  56.8    56.8      64.6      64.7       64.7      64.7      24.7       76.5      72.5      76.        70.6M      72.3      76.7        1   79.7  6.        79.7      771          -.7 875 8.2       87.6       67.6      87.6
................ .....-.....                                                                64.4      8.0       11.2      6.         177       80         126        26       1.6         26 1      2.       1.         1.        1.         8.         8.        6361. 3.9                       2.         96       6.          46       6.          462.
.....o V.....-                                                                              2...7               1...8                8...7                8...7                17..7               22..2                67          .        1.7        2.7       91.       6.          .2        3.2       8.7       2.          .         .          .         .
lotooo- .6poS.  , 61.--619-                              -         .         -          25         .          .         .         .          .        0.3..0.6             1.6       7.8        2.6.      2.6       0.         0.        0.          M.        2.7       0.M.                 2.        6.         6.         .         .          .         .
96511.,,- 00,1........1.9..2I2..1.2..2.2. -.                                                                                                                          2.7       2.2       2.         2.2        2.2        .21.              1.261.2 1.3                   .31.                    8.3       2.3        2.         .         .          .         .
ldto    so................-.                                                     - -         3.2        .         .          .         .          .         .         . .   33.0                    3.2M ..3.  .0        3.2        2.2       3.2        3.         .6       32.                  3.2        3.          .         .         .          .         .
............                                                       -        16.6       63.7       93.7    12.-16                6.          37       93.7.7       7       93.       92.6      122.5     102.      00.1.      2021.1   1j    11.              -1.2      18.6      121.2      188.      28.         6.        8.         1.1.
1%    ..................-....-.-...3                                                     47        4.17       5.        4.3        4.        4.7       4.7        4.7       4.7       4.         8.        2.1   2     .8       31         51         .         5.        3.          .         .6       62         62        8.          .         .
32990.                -          -         .         -       6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20.8  76.4  56.0  136.  72.    924       66.4      274        68.       96.2      97.4      124.      107.2      127.2     107.6    _127.2      11.7       113.7     116.3     83.         -11.     023.7      12.7      123.7      123.7     183.7
!/o1O28so~So,lsfs  os,,1  6  a.-  oC. -so   -610901-70os  -to-                                                       - 12--00                                                                 -         -                     
47   1.ho,   .ls8too.   11,8 -.s  24...
-2lt26.897






ANNEX 10
INDONES IA                                     Page 1
Beef Cattle Development Project
ESTIMATED RATE CF RETURN TO THE ECONOMY
(us$ t OO equivalent)
Corporation (84,000-ha)                     Adjustments             Adjusted
Benefits                        Incremental
Operating   Investment    Residual        from Cattle   Wage    Import   Income to
Year     Income        Cost      Herd Value        Shipment     Rates   Taxes    the Economy
1          o.6       (634.6)             -              -      42.1   (30.0)         (621.9)
2         96.6    (1,264.7)              -             15.0    73.4   (50.0)       (1,129.7)
3        230.7    (1,585.6)              -             33.0   102.2   (80.o)       (1,299-7)
4        418.1    (1,436.5)              -             59.4   102.2   (70.0)         (926.8)
5        203.4       (910.4)             -             88.6   102.2   (30.0)         (546.2)
6        100.5       (422.8)             -            149.3   112.8      -            (60.2)
7        158.8        (99.4)                            -     112.8      -            172.2
8        479.9          _                _              -     112.8      -            592.7
9        667.0                                          -     1L2.8      -            779.8
:zo       716.5          _                _              -     112.8      -            829.3
11        770.4          -                _              -     124.0      -            894.4
12        796.3          -                -                    1 214.0    -            920.3
L3        802.3          -                -              -     124.0      -            926.3
:L4       756.9          -                -                    124.0      -            880.9
15        739.5                                          -     1214.0     -            863.5
1L6       714.9          -                _              -     136.8      -            851.7
1L7       785.o          -                -              -     136.8      -            921.8
:L8       827.5                                          -     136.8      _            964.3
L9        828.5          -                -              -     136.8      -           965.3
2)0       870.1          -                -              -     136.8      -         1,oo6.9
21        886.1          -                -              -     149.6      -         1,035.7
22        889.7          -                                     1 _  149.6  -        1,039.3
23        881,9          -                -              -     149.6      -         1,031.5
24        890.9          -                -              -     149.6      -         1,040.5
:25       963.1          -                                     1 _  149.6  -        1,112.7
D6      1,006.2          -                -              -     164.8      -         1,171.0
27      10141.3          -                _              -     164.8      -         1,2o6.1
28      1,035.0          -                _              -     164.8      _         1,199.8
29      1,022.8          -                -              -     164.8      -         1,187.6
30      1,022.8          -          1,266.4              -     164.8      -         2,1454.0
31        797.9          -          1,732.7              -       -        -         2,5'-30.6
32        350.6          -          1,266.4              -       _        _         1,617.0
RATE OF RETURN TO THE ECONOMY 12%
November 28, 1972



AMINEX 10
Page 2
INDONJESIA
Beef Cattle Development Project
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RATE OF RETURN
TO THE ECONOMY CALCULATIONS
Operating Income & Costs
1.        The following assumptions have been made in estimating operating
income and costs: (a) sale price of export steers has been increased in
real terms by ten percent every fifth year and that of animals locally sold
by 5%; (b) wages have been increased by 10% every fifth year; (c) veterinary
cost have been increased by 25% at Year 11 and by a further 20% at Year 21;
(d) operating expenses for vehicles have been increased by 10% at Year 11
and again by the same percentage at Year 21; (e) repair and maintenance of
machinery, equipment and buildings have been calculated as a percentage of
investment costs at varying percentages of asset cost; (f) maintenance cost
of pastures has been increased by 10% at year 16; (g) replacement of machinery
and equipment, has been included as expense at time of replacement. All
amounts have been calculated in real terms.
AdIustments
(a) Benefits from Cattle Shipment. Cargo capacity of available Indone-
sian cattle transport ships at present is not fully utilized.
The animals produced under the proposed Project would contribute
in improving the cargo capacity utilization. Indonesian shipping
companies would generate about US$15 equivalent net income per
transported animal to Hong Kong which, multiplied by the number
of animals expected to be transported through Indonesian ships
during the first five years under the Project, was considered as
additional benefit to the economy.
(b) Wages Rates. Unskilled labor would be employed on the Corporation's
ranches and would raise their own food for subsistence.  On the
assumption that such labor could find alternative employment for
only about 2 months each year during peak harvest (i.e. about 20%
of their available time), the opportunity cost of labor has been
estimated at 20% of actual market wage rates at peak employment
periods.
(c)  Import Taxes.  Value of exemption of customs duties on items
to be imported by the Corporation has been considered in the
financial rate of return calculations. However, this amount
has been counted as an economic cost of the Project. Had it
not been counted, the economic rate of return would have been
increased by one-half a percentage point.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(d) Sensitivity Analysis. Labor rates have been costed at
two different levels: (i) the basic rate, assuming that
farmers opportunities for alternative employment are zero
for 10 months of the year and that they are normally
fully occupied for 2 months during cereal harvest time,
i.e. approximately 20%; (ii) assuming that labor available
for employment on the ranches could in fact be otherwise
occupied 100% of their available time. As the Project uses
very little labor in relation to other investment costs,
it is relatively insensitive to changes in this factor.
Assuming 100% opportunity cost, the Rate of Return to the
economy would be 10%.
November 30, 1972






0                             0~~0
o                             0>
a~~~~~~ar
00,    0~~~~~~~~,>                                                               i
0>K    -.
o              QI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
a  ~~~~~~'  X             LI?~~~~~~~~~r
I- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
N~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~R m
-4       I-                                'C
0    ~~~      I                 _             0~~~C
QY~~~~~~~~~II~~P



