CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 355 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Beef Cattle Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 31, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 355 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Beef Cattle Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 31, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA     (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Corporation" means P. T. Bina Mulyu Ternak, a limitedl liability
company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower.
(b)   "Financing Agreement" means the financing agreement entered into
between the Borrower and the Corporation pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this
Agreement.
(c)   "Agricultural Loan" means any loan included in Part D of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million six hundred thousand
dollars ($3,600,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for Parts A, B and C of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 3 1, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
March I and September 1 commencing March 1, 1983 and ending September 1,
2022, each installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,


﻿5
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available to the Corporation the
funds required for Parts A, B, C, E. I and E.2 of the Project (including the proceeds
of the Credit allocated thereto) under a financing agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Corporation under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financing Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
the Corporation to employ qualified and experienced contractors.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the agricultural credit program
included in Part D of the Project to be carried out in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended from time
to time.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Corporation in the establishment of an
effective accounting system (Part E.1 of the Project), the Borrower shall cause
the Corporation to employ qualified and experienced independent accountants.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association to prepare
the report provided for in Part E.3 of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to insure, or
to make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available under the Financing Agreement
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Corporation to replace or repair such
goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.


﻿6
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules, for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause the Corporation to maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of th proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall:
(a)   grant to the Corporation appropriate long-term leaseholds as required
to establish and operate the ranches included in Part A of the Project;
(b)   allow, at the request of the Corporation, crossbreeding of cattle on
the ranches included in Part A of the Project, under controlled conditions;
(c)   issue and renew promptly as needed all licences or permits required
by the Corporation to operate its telecommunication facilities; and
(d)   monitor, through its Directorate General of Animal Production and
Health, the results of the pasture and crop trials included in Part C of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the Corporation.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and


﻿7
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Corporation
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Corporation to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Corporation at all times to
manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate business, financial,
agricultural and engineering practices and under the supervision of experienced and
competent management and supervisors, assisted by qualified staff in adequate
numbers.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that before an appointment is made to the
position of member of the Corporation's Direksi (executive management) or to
a similar position, the Association shall be informed of the names, qualifications
and experience of the persons considered for appointment to such position and
shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
on the qualifications and experience of such persons.
(c)   One member of the Corporation's Dewan         Komisaris (Board of
Supervisors) shall be a representative of the Borrower's Directorate General of
Animal Production and Health.
(d)   Until April 1, 1978, the Borrower shall cause the Corporation to
employ an Executive Assistant to the President Director to manage the
Corporation's Department of Animal Production and Technical Assistance, and
Ranch Managers in adequate numbers, acceptable to the Association, upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Corporation:
(a)   to take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all such
rights and interests in land and all such other rights, powers, privileges and franchises
as are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business; and


﻿8
(b)   at all times to operate and maintain its installations, equipment and
other property, and promptly as required make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with appropriate business, agricultural and engineering
practices.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Corporation and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Corporation and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them       of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, arid service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on jr in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Corporation shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by the Corporation or by others
whereby any of the property of the Corporation shall or may be distributed among
its creditors.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Corporation or
for the suspension of all or part of the operations of the Corporation.
(c)   The  legislation  and  charter under which   the Corporation   is
incorporated, or any provisions thereof, shall have been amended, suspended or
abrogated without the prior concurrence of the Association.


﻿10
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the members of the Corporation's Direksi and the Executive
Assistant to the President Director in charge of the Corporation's Department of
Animal Production and Technical Assistance have been appointed and have taken
up their posts;
(b)   that the Financing Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and the Corporation, and has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action; and
(c)   that the Borrower has granted to the Corporation appropriate and
effective long-term leaseholds as required to establish and operate two of the ranches
on Sulawesi included in Part A of the Project.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinion-s to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Corporation is a legal entity duly organized and operating
under the laws of the Borrower;
(b)   that the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Corporation,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and the Corporation
in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that the leaseholds referred to in Section 8.01(c) of this Agreement
are valid and effective.
Section 8.03. The date Ap ' 20, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿11
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.09, Article
IV and Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 2 1
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Jakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ SjarifThajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ I.P.M. Cargill
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Ranch devel-                  1,900,000           100% of foreign
opment (vehi-                                     expenditures
cles, machin-                                     95% of local ex-
ery, equipment                                    penditures ex-
and materials)                                    factory and 83%
of other local
expenditures (off
the shelf)
II.   Livestock                      640,000           40% of total ex-
penditures
III.  Technical assist-              500,000            100% of foreign
ance, including                                   expenditures
staff training
IV.   Agricultural Loans             300,000            50% of amounts
disbursed
V.    Unallocated                    260,000
TOTAL              3,600,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and


﻿14
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   amounts disbursed under Agricultural Loans until the Association shall
have notified the Borrower that:
(i)         it has received an acceptable form of Agricultural Loan
agreement,
(ii)        it agrees that an adequate number of experienced and
qualified extension officers shall be available to enable the
Borrower to duly carry out Part D of the Project, and
(iii)       it agrees that the Corporation has gained significant
technological results and experience to adequately support
the development of the private ranches to be financed
under Agricultural Loans.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,


﻿15
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credik Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association s reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Category I or
of total expenditures under Category It shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit
are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase the Borrower's cattle production and
consists of the following:
Part A.     Ranch development
The development of seven ranches of the Corporation of about 12,000
hectares each for the breeding and fattening of beef cattle including
the establishment of a herd of about 2000 to 2300 cows on each
ranch; six ranches shall be located in the Province of South Sulawesi
near the port of Pare-Pare and one in the District of Kabaroe on the
island of Sumba; ranch development shall also include pasture
development, the construction of fences, water supply and storage
facilities and staff housing, and the installation of telecommunication
facilities.
Part B.     Seed production
The establishment of a grass seed production center on an area of
about 50 to 100 hectares on one of the Corporation's ranches.
Part C.     Research
Pasture and crop trials on areas of about 200 to 250 hectares on each
of said ranches of the Corporation, including:
1.   the introduction of new or improved plant species;
2.    the determination of economical fertilizer application rates;
3.    the development of cheap land preparation methods;
4.   investigation  into  the  possibilities of aerial sowing and
topdressing; and
5.   the determination of effective means of animal feeding.
Part D.     Agricultural credit program
A pilot program of agricultural credits to eligible cattle farmers in the
Provinces of South Sulawesi and Sumba for the development of small


﻿17
and medium-size ranches; the credits shall inter alia finance pasture
and herd development, construction of water supply facilities and
housing, and acquisition of machinery and equipment; the aggregate
agricultural credit amount to be made available under the program
is expected not to exceed the equivalent of $600,000.
Part E.     Technical assistance
1.   The establishment of an effective accounting system  for the
Corporation.
2.    A program   of on-ranch training abroad of the Corporation's
Deputy Executive Assistant to the President Director in charge
of the Department of Animal Production and Technical
Assistance and of the Assistant Ranch Managers in tropical
pasture and ranch management and ley farming.
3.    A report for the preparation of a subsequent project of cattle
development on small and medium-size ranches in areas
ecologically similar to the areas included in the present Project,
such report to be based on significant results obtained from the
research carried out as part of this Project and suitable to support
requests for financial assistance from sources outside Indonesia.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 1980.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Grouping of Contracts
Contracts for vehicles, machinery, equipment and materials for ranch
development shall be grouped in sizes appropriate to meet the requirements of
the Project.
B.    Contracts governed by Guidelines
Contracts for vehicles, machinery, equipment and materials for ranch
development estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972; provided, however, that
in respect of contracts for machinery and equipment, at the option of the Borrower,
advertisements may be limited to newspapers of general circulation in Indonesia
and copies of invitations to bid (or the advertisement) need not be transmitted
to representatives of member countries of the Bank or Switzerland. In addition,
the following rules shall apply:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿19
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
C.    Supplemental Ru/es on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for contracts
referred to in Part B of this Schedule 3, customs duties and other import taxes
on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally produced goods, shall
be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and bidders shall be required
to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place
of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation of bids
in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms
shall have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Indonesia of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Indonesia.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above,
3.    For goods included in Category I of the Allocation of Credit Proceeds,
a margin of preference may be granted by the Borrower to Preferred Domestic
Bids. Such preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid, for the
purpose only of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter
called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have
to pay for th         offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all
evaluated bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences
indicated below:


﻿20
Stage                 Bids to be Compared             Preference
I               All Preferred Domestic Bids           None
and Non-preferred Domestic
Bids.
11        (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under            Add Domestic
Stage 1, if Preferred                 Preference
Domestic Bid, with all                Margin to
Foreign Bids;                         Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under           None
Stage 1, if Non-preferred
Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
Ill             If lowest evaluated bid under         None
Stage 11 is not the lowest
evaluated bid under Stage 1,
all Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will
be granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
D.    Other Contracts
Other contracts for vehicles, machinery, equipment and materials for ranch
development and contracts for livestock and civil works shall be concluded only
after fair domestic competitive bidding or prudent shopping, whichever shall be
most appropriate to obtain a competitive price. With respect to any such contract
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids or quotations received,
a summary description of the reasons for the award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract is not consistent with the above provisions, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Agricultural Credit Program
The agricultural credit program included in Part D of the Project shall be
carried out in accordance with the following provisions:
1.    Training of Extension Officers
The Borrower shall make suitable arrangements to provide adequate technical
and economic training to the extension officers of the Borrower's Directorate
General of Animal Production and Health who are to provide the extension services
required to prepare and supervise the implementation of the ranch development
plans included in the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Extension Service).
2.    Preparation of Ranch Development Plans
The Extension Service shall prepare together with each farmer who in the
opinion of the Extension Service meets the eligibility requirements set forth in
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule (hereinafter referred to as Project Farmer):
(a)   an appropriate ranch development plan specifying the estimated
requirements for development of his ranch and a financing plan tailored to the
financial needs of the farmer and his ranch development plan; and
(b)   a suitable application for an Agricultural Loan.
3.    Lending Institution
The Borrower shall conclude arrangements satisfactory to the Association
with Bank Rakyat Indonesia, or another lending institution acceptable to the
Association, providing inter alia that Bank Rakyat Indonesia or such other lending
institution shall:
(a)   upon recommendation of the Extension Service, and the Executive
Assistant of the President Director in charge of the Corporation's Department of
Animal Production and Technical Assistance, make Agricultural Loans to Project
Farmers on the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph 4 of this Schedule;
and
(b)   maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the disbursements made and debt service


﻿22
payments received under each Agricultural Loan and enable accredited
representatives of the Association to inspect such records.
4.    Terms and Conditions of Agricultural Loans
Agricultural Loans shall be made in accordance with the requirements set
forth in the ranch development plan for the Project Farmer applying for such
loan, and upon inter alia the following terms and conditions:
(a)   Agricultural Loans shall bc made exclusively to cattle farmers who:
(i)         have, and must be expected to maintain during the subsequent
thirty years, an effective leasehold for a small or medium-size
tract of ranch land suitable for cattle farming;
(ii)        have a herd of cattle and sufficient experience to successfully
implement their respective ranch development plans; and
(iii)       shall be able to make. a contribution in cash or in kind towards
meeting the cost of their respective ranch development plans
at least equivalent to ten per cent (10%) of the estimated cost
of such plans;
(b)   the amount of an Agricultural Loan shall together with the farmer's
contribution meet the estimated total cost of the ranch development plan for which
it is made;
(c)   Agricultural Loans shall have such maturities and shall carry such
interest or other charges as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association;
(d)   all cattle of' the borrowing farmer shall at all times be adequately
vaccinated;
(e)   until his ranch development plan shall have been fully implemented,
the borrowing farmer shall not sell any of his cattle without the prior approval
of the Extension Service and the bank having made the Agricultural Loan;
(f)   Agricultural Loans shall be made under agreements which shall be
substantially in accordance with a form of Agricultural Loan agreement acceptable
to the Association; and


﻿23
(g)   Agricultural Loan agreements shall provide for appropriate assurances
that the borrowing farmer:
(i)         shall carry out his ranch development plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate agricultural
and financial practices;
(ii)        shall  make   his  counterpart  contribution  as  defined  in
sub-paragraph (a)(iii) of this paragraph 4; and
(iii)       shall manage his affairs and carry on his operations in accordance
with appropriate agricultural and business practices.
The Borrower shall cause the Agricultural Loan agreements to be enforced
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and
the bank having made the Agricultural Loan.
Two conformed copies of the Agricultural Loan agreement together with
the applicable ranch development plan shall be furnished to the Association
promptly after it! execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such agreement.
5.    Implementation of Ranch Development Plans
The Borrower shall through the Directorate General of Animal Production
and Health make available experienced and qualified extension officers in adequate
numbers to assist and supervise the Project Farmers in the implementation of their
respective ranch development plans. For that purpose, the extension officers shall
closely cooperate with the Corporation to enable the Project Farmers to benefit
from the technological results and the experience gained by the Corporation.
The Borrower shall ensure that goods and livestock to be financed out of
the proceeds of an Agricultural Loan shall be procured only after prudent shopping.


