Document of
FILE COY X                        The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2293-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE -
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
PUNJAB WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
August 23, 1978
This document hua  msicted distribuilon mud may be used by reciplents only In the performnce of
their ofiAcial duties. Its contes may not otherwise be diselsed witbout World BDnk autboriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 15, 1978)
Rs 1.00                  Paise 100
US$1.00                  Rs 7.88
Rs 1.00                  US$0.1269
Rs 1 million             US$126,900
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of.currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions in the Appraisal
Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.6).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI           -  Government of India
GOP           -  Government of Punjab
IBRD/WHO CP   -  World Bank/World Health Organization
Cooperative Program
LIC           -  Life Insurance Corporation of India
NCs            -  Municipal Corporations/Committees
PHDRW         -  Public Health Department, Rural Wing
PWD           -  Public Works Department
WSSB          -  Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
PUNJAB WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:         The Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (WSSB)
and participating Municipal Corporations/Committees
(MCs)
Amount:                US$38.0 million
Terms:                 Standard
On-lending Terms:      (a)  GOI to GOP:  As part of central assistance for
state development projects on terms and condi-
tions applicable at the time.
(b) GOP to WSSB: Repayable over 25 years at 8-1/2%
interest per annum including three years grace.
(c) WSSB to MCs: Same terms as (b).
The foreign exchange risk will be borne by GOI.
Project
Description:           Water supply and sewerage facilities would be improved
and expanded in eight rapidly growing towns in the State
of Punjab to provide an additional 0.8 million people
with water supply (about 24% of the total urban popula-
tion), and 1.2 million people with sewerage (about 36%
of the total urban population). The project would also
develop WSSB as an institution capable of planning and
implementing sectoral development programs in Punjab.
Separate water supply and sewerage departments estab-
lished within MCs would be strengthened to ensure that
systems constructed under the project would be operated
efficiently. The needs of the urban poor would be met
through the free supply of water from standpipes.
Credit would also be provided on easy terms to facili-
tate service connections by the economically weaker
sections of society. The risk that sewer connections
might not materialize at the rates envisaged at
appraisal is minimized by the fact that GOP will
introduce sewerage charges for all unconnected premises
that have access to and benefit from a sewer. As a
further incentive, credit on easy terms would be pro-
vided to low income families to help finance connec-
tion charges. The project entails no other unusual
risks.
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. lu contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated                                                ---     US$ million-----
Project Costs:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
Equipment and Materials
Water Supply Schemes              7.3       3.4      10.7
Sewerage Schemes                 15.0       0.6      15.6
Sub-total                  22.3       4.0      26.3
Civil Works
Water Supply Schemes              5.2        -        5.2
Sewerage Schemes                 16.2        -       16.2
Sub-total                  21.4        -       21.4
Engineering                      10.0                10.0
Specialized Equipment,
Consultant Services
and Training                    1.1       0.1       1.2
Physical Contingencies            5.2       0.5       5.7
Price Contingencies              12.1       0.9      13.0
Total Project Costs        72.1       5.5      77.6
Financing                                                -------US$ million-----
Plan:                                                    Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                              32.5       5.5      38.0
LIC                              15.1        -        15.1
MCs                              24.4        -        24.4
GOP                               0.1        -         0.1
Total                      72.1       5.5       77.6
Estimated                                      ----------(US$ million)---------
Disbursements:                                 FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Annual                  3.0    9.3   10.7   10.7    4.3
3.0   12.3   23.0   33.7   38.0
Rate of Return:         The weighted average internal rate of return in three
of the eight towns, which account for about 80% of
total project costs, is 17.1%.
Appraisal Report:       No. 1822b-IN, dated August 24, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE PUNJAB WATER
SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$38 million on
standard IDA terms. The credit would support the program of the Government
of Punjab (GOP) to expand and upgrade water supply and sewerage systems in
eight large towns of the State. The proceeds of the credit would be chan-
nelled to GOP in accordance with the Government of India's standard terms
and arrangements for the financing of state development projects. GOP would
make the Credit available to the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (WSSB)
on terms requiring repayment over 25 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at 8-1/2% per annum. WSSB would in turn relend the proceeds of the
Credit to participating Municipal Corporations/Committees under Subsidiary
Loan Agreements substantially on the same terms and conditions as the GOP
loan. The exchange risk would be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas, their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Railway Modernization and
Maintenance Project (Report No. P-2349-IN), dated July 19, 1978.



- 2 -
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys
many of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development.
Although literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well
trained administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entre-
preneurial class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by
international comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is
relatively well-placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very
large reserves of coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric
potential. Recent petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited
and prospects are bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the
infrastructure needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute
terms the irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are
each among the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed,
world. However, considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly
from state to state.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 200
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exists. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950s, life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940s to 45-50 years in the 1970s, school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children of primary school age and from 5% to 29% of children of
secondary school age since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950s to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.



- 3 -
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An ad-
verse shift in terms of trade, starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year, greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen.  The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased 'incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround ocurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction of the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production of iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports. The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have averaged 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared with 1.3
million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved extension



- 4 -
system, which has been getting heartening results, has been introduced in
several states and is slated for further coverage.
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent crop expectations, price stability and good
prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange. The circum-
stances present a great opportunity for further promoting the development of
the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed though
not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this chal-
lenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall investment
and public Plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7% per
annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum during
the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development toward improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low-income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small-scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step toward complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
of construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--have been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978/79.



- 5 -
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the Plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth Plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.
15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970s. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension to more states and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased, not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices, and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several states in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid-1960s--large un-
utilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and low
productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one of
the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries, which
make up a significant portion of the sector. Sluggish demand for industrial
products from all sources--not only from investments but also from agricul-
ture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint. Further
import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufactured goods
in the future because most opportunities for efficient import substitution
have been exploited. Increased growth of real incomes from greater produc-
tivity in both agriculture and manufacturing, sustained increases in exports
and increased investment, particularly by the public sector, all can raise
demand for industrial production.



- 6 -
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small-scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing and, within the small-scale sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to
the small-scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small-scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small-scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality is not falling as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 per thousand by the end of the century,
implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best guess" pro-
jection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many of the
benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the
century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier change
in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow more
slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the primary
and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will continue to
grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990s, result-
ing in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force from
40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The Government's goal of eliminating unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small-scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small-
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large-scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.



- 7 -
20.        In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development. With good medium-term prospects for
India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in invisible receipts
and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments, the net availability
of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is projected to rise over
the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7 billion in 1977/78 to
US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum. Given the unlikely
need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally important items -- e.g.,
petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and cotton -- other imports can
increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth to below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of
GDP from the historical rato of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The firsL should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both Fhe public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion, implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income growth, the pre-
sent situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will
be sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will
be necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort
will be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks
in pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs
of its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.        Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 55 loans and 105 development
credits to India totalling US$2,236 million and US$5,738 million (both net
of cancellation), K2spectively.  Of these amounts, US$924 million had been
repaid, and US$1,928 million was still undisbursed as of July 31, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of July 31, 1978,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.        Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$63.6
million, of which US$14.5 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and



- 8 -
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$34.6 million, US$26.9 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of July 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,



- 9 -
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. As of July 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,247
million, of which US$559 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$688 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1977/78. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR IN PUNJAB
Background
30.       Although State Governments in India have primary responsibility
for development of water supply and sewerage facilities, the Central Gov-
ernment, through its five-year plans and/or special programs, has considerable
influence on sector development. Funds are normally allocated by the Govern-
ment of India (GOI) in the form of grants and loans which State Governments
supplement with local resources. The States execute their responsibilities
through various departments and agencies which, in turn, may delegate part
or all of their duties to local authorities. In certain cases, municipal
authorities, or other agencies, by special legislation assume the entire
responsibility for planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance
of water supply and sewerage services within their jurisdictions.
31.       Since the early 1950s, State Governments have endeavored to meet
the increasing demand for services caused by rapidly expanding population
and unprecedented rates of urban growth. Competing demands for resources
from other high priority sectors, lack of management and planning skills, and
shortages of key materials and equipment have resulted in only 1 to 2% of
developmental expenditures being invested in the water supply and sewerage
sector.
32.       The present levels of water supply and sewerage services in India
reflect the history of relatively small investments, against a background
of rising populations and urbanization. In 1975, WHO 1/ estimated that only
1/   WHO Community Water Supply and Waste Water Disposal Mid-Decade Progress
Report, May 1, 1976.



- 10 -
193 million people, or 31% of India's total population of 620 million, had
access to reasonably safe drinking water and that only 125 million (20%) had
acceptable means of disposing of sewage. These levels are lower than average
levels for all developing countries as a whole, in which water and sewerage
services reach 38% and 33% of the population respectively.
Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Sector
33.       The State of Punjab, located in the plains Sf northwestern India,
bordering Pakistan, covers an area of about 50,400 km . The State's economy
is largely dependent on agriculture which accounts for some 82% of total land
area and contributes approximately 52% of its total income. Agricultural and
industrial development have been impressive in Punjab with the result that the
State's per capita domestic product is the highest in India. The State is
generously endowed with an abundant supply of water from three major perennial
rivers, the Beas, Sutlej and Ghaggar and an ample supply of groundwater which
is its main source of domestic water supply.
34.       Punjab faces most of the problems typical of the water supply sector
in India. These problems are particularly acute in urban areas which have
grown rapidly to meet the expanding industrial, trade and services require-
ments of Punjab's flourishing rural sector. Development of the sector has
proceeded without a properly designed long-term program. Furthermore, being
in no position to generate sufficient resources by itself, the sector has been
dependent on the State budget for the financing of its development expendi-
tures and is, therefore, subject to the uncertainties of annual appropriations.
The result is that the sector is now facing serious problems. In most urban
areas, the water supply is intermittent and unevenly distributed. Operation
of the systems is unsatisfactory with no proper assessment of the amount of
water pumped into them and the amount that is actually used. Punjab has a
population of 13.6 million, of which 76% live in rural areas (12,188 villages)
and 24% in urban areas (108 townships). In 1976, 59 townships had partially
piped water supply systems which served some 1.4 million or about 42% of the
total urban population in the State. The balance of Punjab's urban population
relies mainly on shallow wells. The development of rural water supply schemes
has concentrated mainly in water scarcity areas or in areas where the ground-
water contains excessive fluoride. There are about 4.6 million people in
these areas living in about 3,700 such villages. Of these villages, about
1,700 have been provided with standpost water supply covering a population of
about 1.6 million and schemes are under preparation or implementation to serve
the remaining 2,000 villages. The rest of the rural population obtain their
supplies from groundwater. The incidence of water-related diseases such as
dysentery and infectious hepatitis, though lower in Punjab than in other
Indian States, still poses serious health hazards.
35.        Sewerage systems in Punjab are less developed than water supply.
Only 7% of the total urban population enjoy any sewerage facilities. The bulk
of the urban population depend on the conservancy system or use open drains
or fields. Sanitary conditions, particularly in industrialized and congested
urban areas, are poor and are steadily deteriorating with sewage flowing in
open drains or stagnating in ponds. The maintenance of existing sewerage
systems is unsatisfactory with silting of the sewers constituting a major
problem. In rural areas, sanitation is of a very low standard.



- 11 -
Sector Organization and Objectives
36.       Until 1976, the Public Health Branch of the Public Works Depart-
ment (PWD) was primarily responsible for the planning and execution of
urban and rural water supply and sewerage systems in Punjab. Responsibility
for systems operation and maintenance was vested in Panchayats (village
councils) or Municipal Corporations/Committees (MCs), with the PWD
operating the rural water supply schemes on behalf of the Panchayats.
37.       In November 1976, the functions of the Public Health Branch of the
PWD were reallocated. A newly established Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage
Board (WSSB) was made responsible for the construction of urban water supply
and sewerage systems. Operation and maintenance of these systems, however,
remained the responsibility of individual municipal authorities. Responsi-
bility for planning, design, construction and operation of rural water supply
schemes remained with the Public Health Branch, Rural Water Supply Wing, of the
Ministry of Public Works.
38.       GOP's objectives for the development of its water supply and sewer-
age sector include (i) developing an adequate institutional framework to
provide urban water supply and sewerage services rapidly; (ii) making the
urban water supply and sewerage systems financially self-sufficient; (iii)
better utilization of existing water supply and sewerage systems; and (iv)
extending and improving services where needs are greatest. Towards this end,
the establishment of WSSB was an important first step and it provides GOP
with a suitable base for institutional development in the sector.
39.       Following a sector study by IBRD/WHO Cooperative Program staff in
February/March 1977, various organizational alternatives were discussed with
GOP with a view to furthering sectoral objectives. These included the merging
of water supply and sewerage organizations for urban and rural areas under a
single entity with full responsibility for implementation, and operation and
maintenance; establishing a separate Board for rural water supply; and estab-
lishing municipal enterprises for system operation and maintenance. GOP felt
that, as WSSB is still in its formative stage, it was too early to consider
burdening it with the added responsibility for implementation and operation of
rural water works. GOP also considered that the establishment of a second
Board could unnecessarily perpetuate a division of the sector. GOP opted for
retaining the present institutional framework for rural water supply, while
accepting as an objective for the urban sector the strengthening of WSSB and
the development of viable local undertakings capable of handling systems
operation on a self-supporting basis. In this respect, GOP's decision was in
keeping with its policy of fostering the development of self-government by
democratically elected local bodies. MCs presently lack the expertise neces-
sary to operate and maintain water supply and sewerage systems efficiently.
GOP has, therefore, agreed to strengthen WSSB to enable it to assist the MCs
in institutional development and systems operation. GOP has also agreed to
pass amending legislation to enable WSSB to take over the operation and main-
tenance of the water supply and sewerage systems of MCs in case of default or
mismanagement.



- 12 -
40.       The original project package presented to the Association covered
water supply and sewerage works (100% connections) in the three major towns
of Jullundur, Amritsar and Ludhiana, and water supply works for rural areas
classified as "scarcity" areas. In the context of further project preparation,
GOP agreed to extend the project to cover additional urban areas and to reduce
the levels of service contemplated for the three major towns. IDA was keen
that GOP retain the rural water supply component in the project. However, GOP
was unable to accept the principle that the cost of such services be recovered
in accordance with the ability of consumers to pay, and decided to withdraw
this component which it proposes to finance entirely on a grant basis.
Sector Investment
41.       The GOP investment program for the urban sector involves an increase
from an amount of US$5.3 million equivalent, in the period 1970-1974, to
US$36.4 million equivalent, in the period 1975-1979. Investments of US$104.6
million equivalent are planned for 1979-1982 (the proposed project period).
Past annual investments in rural water supplies have increased from about
US$2.6 million equivalent in the period 1970-1974 to about US$4.7 million
equivalent in 1975/76. The GOP budget for the fiscal year 1977/78 provides
US$9.3 million for rural water schemes with annual investments of US$18.6
million forecast by fiscal year 1979/80. The planned increase in both urban
and rural water supply investments is appropriate in light of sectoral needs
and the past neglect of the sector. The fact that the urban sector would
continue to absorb a larger proportion of resources than the rural sector
reflects the urgency of improving sanitary conditions in congested industrial
and urban areas where health hazards are significant. Consequently, whereas
past urban sector investments have been equally divided between water supply
and sewerage, proposed investments through 1982 would concentrate on the
extension of sewerage systems (68% of average annual investments in the pro-
posed project period).
Previous Bank Group Operations in Punjab
42.       Previous Bank Group involvement has been in the agricultural sector
in Punjab. In June 1970, Credit 203-IN (US$27.5 million), was approved to
provide medium and long term finance for the purchase of imported tractors,
tractor implements and harvesters by farmers, cooperative farming societies
and farmers groups, to increase agricultural production. After initial delays
over tractor procurement, culminating in the Credit being amended to permit
the financing of indigenously manufactured tractors as well as imported
tractors, good progress was made and the Credit was fully disbursed on schedule.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project was prepared by WSSB with assistance from
Bank Staff and consultants and was appraised in October/November 1977. The
Staff Appraisal Report No. 1882b-IN dated August 24, 1978, is being dis-
tributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1978. The



- 13 -
negotiating delegation for India was headed by Dr. Y. V. Reddy, Deputy
Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs and the Life Insurance Corporation
of India (LIC) was represented by Mr. C. R. Thakore, Chief (Investment). A
supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The proposed project would be implemented over 4 years and forms a
major part (75%) of GOP's urban water supply and sewerage program through 1982.
The project has been designed to improve and expand water supply and sewerage
facilities in 8 towns (Jullundur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Moga, Patiala, Bhatinda,
Rajpura and Pathankot). These are rapidly expanding, congested, industrial-
ized areas which contain about 62% of the State's total urban population of
about 3.3 million.   Water supply connections would be provided to an addi-
tional 24% (approx. 800,000 people) of the State's total urban population.
45.       Through the expansion and improvement of sewerage in the eight
towns, an additional 36% (approx. 1.2 million people) of the total urban
population of Punjab would be provided with sewerage facilities. The project
would also effect improvements in operational and management techniques which
would benefit both WSSB and participating MCs in the development of future
water supply and sewerage systems throughout the State.
46.       The proposed water supply works in the eight towns include the
construction of tubewells, service reservoirs, distribution mains, about
93,000 water service connections and treatment works for two towns. The
sewerage component would provide for interceptors, outfall mains, pumping
stations, some disposal facilities and about 120,000 connections.
Project Implementation
47.       The Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (WSSB), established under
the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board Act 1976, would be responsible for
project implementation. WSSB is headed by a full-time Chairman, a full-time
Managing Director, six ex-officio directors and up to five associate members
representing special interests. Under the Managing Director's guidance, WSSB
plans, designs and constructs urban water supply and sewerage schemes.
For this purpose, WSSB is organized into centralized departments responsible
for design, planning, finance and administration, and into four regional
engineering circles. WSSB's performance has been satisfactory within the
constraints imposed by its limited technical staff. Under the proposed pro-
ject WSSB would exercise a supervisory role over the MCs to ensure that they
operate and maintain efficiently the water supply and sewerage systems within
their jurisdiction. GOP has agreed to provide a legislative framework suit-
able to enabling WSSB to function effectively. The Punjab Water Supply and
Sewerage Board Act 1976, has been amended provisionally by the passage of an
Ordinance enabling WSSB to take over the operation and maintenance of water
and sewerage systems in the project area in case of default or mismanagement
by any MC. The Ordinance also empowers WSSB to relend funds to the MCs. It
is a condition of credit effectiveness for these provisional arrangements to
be finalized through appropriate action as agreed with IDA (see Section 5.01(e)



- 14 -
of the Development Credit Agreement). GOP has also agreed to establish within
WSSB, five design divisions and has appointed a Chief Engineer to head WSSB's
Design and Planning Department. In addition, WSSB has agreed to employ quali-
fied staff in sufficient numbers, to carry out the proposed investment program
and to assist the MCs to operate and maintain the works and facilities con-
structed or improved on their behalf (see Section 2.08 of the Project Agree-
ment). Furthermore, WSSB has engaged consultants to advise both the WSSB and
the MCs on organization and management, and staffing. By December 1, 1978,
WSSB would also hire consultants to advise on training programs and design
sewage treatment works (see Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement). In all
approximately 500 man-months of local consultant services, costed at US$1,000
per man-month, would be required to provide these services under the project.
To ensure timely project implementation and to enable the early hiring of
consultants, retroactive financing up to US$100,000 has been provided from
February 28, 1978 to the date of Credit signing (see paragraph 4 of Schedule I
to the Development Credit Agreement).
48.        Under the project, each MC would be required to meet specific re-
quirements to ensure the efficient operation and maintenance of the water
supply and sewerage systems to be constructed within their jurisdictions. To
achieve this objective, GOP would be required to cause each MC to:
(1) establish a separate advisory committee with the authority
to recommend policy relating to water supply and sewerage
services;
(2) establish a separate water supply and sewerage department
by March 31, 1979, and require the head of the department to
report directly to the Commissioner or President of such MC;
(3) ensure that the water supply and sewerage department maintain
separate accounts for water supply and sewerage services
and has its own budget and bank account;
(4) ensure that the water supply and sewerage department main-
tains its accounts in accordance with a full public utility
commercial accounting system beginning April 1, 1980;
(5) ensure that key personnel with appropriate qualifications
are appointed in the water supply and sewerage department; and
(6) ensure that its water supply and sewerage department shall
operate and maintain the water supply and sewerage systems
within its jurisdiction in accordance with sound engineering,
administrative, personnel, financial and public utility
practices. For the purpose of the latter, MCs would be
required to adopt by September 30, 1979, technical and
financial performance criteria and indicators on operation
and maintenance to be established by WSSB in consultation
with the Association and MCs (see Section 2.04 of the Punjab
Agreement).



- 15 -
49.        IDA has appraised the water supply and sewerage schemes planned
for the three major towns of Jullundur, Amritsar and Ludhiana, comprising
nearly 80% of total project costs, leaving the schemes proposed for the
remaining five towns to be appraised by WSSB. IDA's review and approval of
the engineering reports would be made a condition of disbursement for each
of the subprojects in the eight towns (see paragraph 4 of Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
50.        The estimated cost of the proposed project is about US$77.6 million
equivalent, including about US$2.5 million of taxes and duties. The principal
components net of contingencies are: water supply schemes (US$15.9 million);
sewerage works (US$31.8 million); engineering costs (US$10.0 million); and
specialized equipment, consultancy services and training (US$1.2 million).
Physical contingencies average about 12% for all items (US$5.7 million), while
price contingencies of US$13.0 million are based on annual price increases of
7% for material and equipment and 8% for civil works.
51.        The proposed Credit of US$38.0 million equivalent would finance
about 50% of project costs, net of taxes and duties. The Credit would
finance all foreign exchange costs (approximately US$5.5 million) and US$32.5
million of local costs. The balance of funds for the project would be pro-
vided by the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), GOP and participating
MCs. LIC is actively involved in lending for State water supply schemes and
will provide US$15.1 million equivalent, representing about 20% of the total
financing required. GOP together with participating MCs would provide the
balance US$24.5 million equivalent (see Section 2.02 of the Punjab Agreement).
The proceeds of the Credit would be channelled through GOI to GOP, on standard
terms, as part of Central assistance provided to State Governments for devel-
opment purposes. GOP will on-lend these funds to WSSB at 8.5% interest, for
a period of 25 years, including three years of grace. Under Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between WSSB and each participating MC these funds would be held by
WSSB to the account of MCs. These Agreements would also make MCs liable for
repayment of the loan to WSSB on the same terms and conditions applicable to
the GOP loan to WSSB. The signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been
made a condition of credit disbursement (para 4(b)(ii) of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement). LIC will provide its loan to WSSB at 8.5%
interest, with the same repayment period as for the GOP loan to WSSB. Con-
tributions from MCs would be in the form of capital grants. GOP would be
required to provide these funds in the event the MCs fail to do so (see
Schedule 2 of the Project AgreemenL and Section 2.02(b) of the Punjab
Agreement).
Cost Recovery
52.       The MCs keep their accounts on a simple cash basis.  This does not
provide financial data adequate to judge their performance. They do not pre-
pare annual reports or annual financial statements. Available information on
past financial performance in the three major towns shows a history of losses
on sewerage operations, although Amritsar and Ludhiana are close to breaking



- 16 -
even in FY1977 and FY1978 on their overall water and sewerage operations.
Jullundur, however, will meet only about 35% of its operating costs during
these two years.
53.       Under the proposed project GOP aims to have the water supply and
sewerage operations in the eight towns generate sufficient revenues to meet
the cost of services provided. Pending a tariff study, the MCs have intro-
duced water charges in the eight towns based on the existing tariffs for
Amritsar and Ludhiana. As a result, a flat rate water charge of Is 8.00
(US$0.94) per month, and a metered water charge of Rs 0.35 per M (US$0.16
per 1,000 US gallons), has been made applicable to all these towns from
July 1, 1978. As of this date, a sewerage charge, equivalent to the water
charge, has also been introduced for all premises which have both a water and
a sewer connection. The present domestic water consumption pattern cannot
be readily established because of the lack of production meters and reliable
customer meters. Projected domestic water consumption, estimated on the basis
that the proposed leak detection program, installation of new meters, and
repair of existing meters would be carried out under the project, ranges
between 90 and 160 1/cd (about 24 to 42 US gallons) in the eight towns.
Standpipe consumption has been projected at 45 1/cd (about 12 US gallons)
for an average of between 40 to 50 families per standpost.
54.       To induce maximum utilization of sewerage facilities, GOP has under-
taken to cause MCs to introduce full sewerage charges from April 1, 1979, for
premises which have access to, and benefit from, the sewerage system regardless
of whether they are connected or not (see Section 2.08 of the Punjab Agreement).
To help the poorer sections of the community meet the costs of connecting to
the water supply and sewerage systems, WSSB has agreed to waive the administra-
tive charge for connections, and to reduce water meter deposits. Additionally,
the project would provide credit on easy terms for water supply and sewerage
connections. The preparation of a credit program and the formulation of
detailed programs for sewerage connections satisfactory to IDA would be
conditions for disbursement in the eight project towns (see para 4 of Schedule
I to the Development Credit Agreement).
55.       The project also provides for a tariff study to be carried out by
consultants employed by WSSB to design tariffs which would seek to maximize
income, minimize wastage of water and at the same time provide a reasonable
level of service to the urban poor at a price they can afford. The latter
objective is expected to be achieved by the provision of free supplies of
water from standposts and by the use of a stepped tariff for metered supplies.
The tariff study is also expected to recommend additional sources of revenue
such as charges for (a) properties connected to the sewers but using private
water supplies; (b) the sale of waste water for irrigation purposes; and
(c) the private extraction of water from the aquifer. Supplementary revenues
from these sources can be expected during the project construction period,
but have not been taken into account in the financial projections.



- 17 -
The Financial Position of Project Entities
56.       With the introduction of the new water charges and a sewerage charge
the three major towns together would attain a positive overall financial rate
of return on net fixed assets during the construction period to FY1981/82.
This will also be true of the three towns individually, except for Jullundur
in the first year FY1978/79. During this period, there should be no need for
any further tariff increases, provided unit costs do not escalate beyond the
forecast level of about 7% to 8% annually. During the construction period GOP
would cause each MC to cover annual operating expenses, working capital and
debt service or depreciation, whichever is the higher (see Section 2.10(a) of
the Punjab Agreement).
57.       With the improvements in service created by the project, a large
increase in tariffs should be possible in FY1982-83 in order to generate cash
to finance a proportion of future investment and to ensure that an adequate
return on capital investment is obtained. The actual size of this increase
will depend upon the level of inflation during the intervening years, on the
ability of the MCs to generate additional sources of revenue as a result of
the tariff study (para 55) and, to a lesser extent, on the level of recoveries
of credits to the poorer sections of the community for connections. GOP would
cause each MC to generate internally sufficient cash to finance a proportion
of the annual investment, taking the average of the investments in the current,
the last preceding and the next following year, at the rate of at least 30%
in FY1982-83, 35% in FY1983-84 and 40% from FY1984-85 onwards (see Section
2.10(b) of the Punjab Agreement). However, for balance sheet purposes, WSSB
also plans to instruct its consultants to properly value and record all
existing assets. This would enable a rate of return calculation to be made as
a further test of financial viability. GOP would also cause the MCs not to
incur any further long-term debt in respect of their water supply and sewerage
services unless their net incomes before interest and depreciation are at
least 1.5 times the maximum debt service in any future year (see Section 2.11
of the Punjab Agreement).
58.       WSSB would carry out the design and supervision of construction in
the eight towns and an engineering charge of 15% of total cost would be in-
cluded in all construction work undertaken on behalf of the MCs. This income
should be adequate to meet the supervisory costs of WSSB operations throughout
the project construction period. GOP would also provide WSSB with an equity
contribution of about Rs 80 million (about US$9.3 million) as working capital
to enable it to finance the high level of expenditure that would be necessary
to sustain the project and other sector work, pending receipt of proceeds of
the loan from GOP and LIC, and funds from MCs (see Section 2.02(a)(i) of the
Punjab Agreement).
59.       Consultants would be appointed by WSSB to establish public utility
commercial accounting systems for both WSSB and the MCs in two phases. In the
first phase, the focus would be on improved billing and collection and basic
accounting records, to be implemented by April 1, 1979, followed by a full
system to be implemented by April 1, 1980. GOP would cause the MCs to imple-
ment a public utility commercial accounting system by April 1, 1980, for



- 18 -
the eight towns; WSSB would also implement a similar system by the same
date (see Sections 2.04(d) of the Punjab Agreement and 4.03 of the Project
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       Contracts for equipment and materials with an estimated value of
US$14.0 million would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. A margin of preference of 15%
or the current import duty, whichever is lower, would be granted to local
manufacturers in evaluating bids for these contracts. Contracts for equip-
ment and materials with an estimated value of US$22.0 million would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. These contracts would
involve either small items (below US$100,000) unlikely to attract bids from
foreign suppliers, or items unsuitable for international bidding because of
high transport costs and/or high risk of damage in transit (e.g., concrete
and stoneware pipes).
61.       The total value of civil works under the project is estimated at
US$21.4 million, excluding contingencies. Because of the dispersed nature
of the project and the limited possibilities of grouping the contracts,
there would be at least 100 distinct civil works contracts involved. One
or two of the contracts could be of the order of US$1.5 million equivalent,
but the rest would be much smaller in value with the average contract size
being about US$250,000 equivalent. The majority of the contracts would
comprise labor intensive pipe laying works. Consequently, all civil works
contracts would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding, or in
exceptional cases be executed by force account. Where force account is used
for civil works, GOP has agreed not to exceed US$30,000 equivalent for any
single contract, without obtaining the prior agreement of IDA (see paragraph
B.3 of Schedule I to the Project Agreement).
62.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against
100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) of
equipment and materials procured through international competitive bidding,
100% of staff training and consultant costs, and 45% of the costs of civil
works and locally procured equipment and materials excluding WSSB's adminis-
trative costs. Disbursements against civil works and material and equipment
contracts for one or more progress payments not exceeding Rs 100,000 (about
US$11,600) and Rs 50,000 (about US$5,800) respectively, would be on the basis
of certificates of expenditure. The supporting documentation would not be
submitted for review but would be retained for inspection by review missions.
There is provision for periodic local auditing of these certificates of ex-
penditure. Disbursements against all other items would be fully documented.
The LIC loan will be disbursed against 22% of the expenditures on locally
procured equipment, materials and civil works excluding WSSB administrative
charges up to Rs 65 million (about US$7.6 million) and 28% thereafter.
Benefits and Risks
63.       It is difficult to use conventional economic rate of return analysis
in water supply projects because benefits are hard to quantify. The financial



- 19 -
rate of return approximates a minimum measure of the likely economic return
to the extent that financial and economic costs are comparable and on the
assumption that the expected revenues accurately measure consumers' valuation
of the benefits derived from the services provided, as established in their
"willingness-to-pay". The financial rate of return for the subprojects in
the three major towns constituting the greater portion of total project costs,
could thus serve as a rough indicator of the economic benefits that are likely
to flow as a result of this project. The overall financial rates of return
for these towns for water and sewerage combined are 15.1% (Jullundur), 19.7%
(Amritsar), and 16.5% (Ludhiana). The weighted average rate of return for
investments in these three towns which account for about 80% of total project
costs is 17.1%. In each case, the project design represents the least cost
alternative from among those considered.
64.        A primary economic benefit of the proposed project would be an
improved water and sewerage service in areas where they are most urgently
needed. Since the major towns are thriving industrial centers as well,
failure to improve and expand the facilities to meet demand would adversely
affect industrial development in these areas.
65.        The rate of return as calculated above tends to understate the con-
siderable health benefits of improved water supply and sewerage services that
accrue to the community as a whole. As with other states in India, Punjab
has a history of water-related diseases, such as dysentery and infectious
hepatitis. In some districts, the incidence of dental and skeletal fluorosis
is severe because of the use of groundwater with a high fluoride content. In
congested urban areas in particular, which are the focus of the proposed
project, the dangers of large scale outbreaks of these water-borne diseases
are ever present due to the lack of safe drinking water and to unhygenic
living conditions. Apart from the direct personal benefits, the community at
large benefits from reduced medical and hospital costs and increased work
productivity along with increases in effective nutrition due to a reduction
in intestinal diseases.
66.       The project would benefit approximately 2.0 million people.  It
would aim at providing the maximum coverage to all sections of society,
particularly the urban poor. The latter would be provided with free supplies
of water from standposts and benefit through the introduction of a stepped
tariff for metered supplies. Also concessional credit would be extended by
WSSB to the economically weaker sections to facilitate connections to the
water supply and sewerage systems. During construction, the project would
provide employment to 10,000 people annually.
67.        The project would also make an important contribution to institu-
tional development. It would build up the organizational capability of the
recently established WSSB. The water supply and sewerage departments to be
established within MCs would similarly benefit through a considerable improve-
ment in works operation in the eight project towns.  it is expected that
ultimately the whole sector in Punjab would benefit from this experience.
WSSB and the participating MCs would also benefit through the training pro-
grams WSSB would initiate with the assistance of consultants for the purpose



- 20 -
of improving the capabilities of the staff engaged in operating and maintain-
ing the works. Additionally, the project would help to impose financial
discipline and improve the financial management of both WSSB and the MCs. The
restructuring and increase of tariffs would provide a cash generating capacity
which would enable the eight towns in the project area to be less dependent on
GOP loans for future capital expenditures, releasing State funds for invest-
ments in other urban and rural areas within the sector.
68.       The establishment of WSSB is an important first step towards re-
solving the complex problems of this sector in Punjab. To perform its role
under the project, WSSB will have to be very much strengthened. There is a
risk that project execution may be slower than now foreseen if WSSB's capa-
bilities are not developed rapidly. Similar risks relate to the water supply
and sewerage departments to be set up within the MCs in the eight project
towns. These risks are however minimized through the provision of technical
assistance to both WSSB and the MCs. A further risk lies in the fact that
the project concentrates on investment in sewerage works against a background
of low connection rates. The project has, however, built-in provisions to
encourage and facilitate connections to sewerage systems. Nevertheless, these
methods are generally untested and the possibility of delays in the achieve-
ment of the expected number of connections cannot be ruled out.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation; the draft Punjab Agreement between the Association and the State of
Punjab; the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the Punjab
Water Supply and Sewerage Board, the draft LIC Agreement between the Associa-
tion and the Life Insurance Corporation of India, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
71.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement
which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III,
the following features are of particular interest:
(a) The following event of suspension has been added, namely that:
(A) (1) the right of WSSB to withdraw the proceeds of
the LIC Loan has been suspended, cancelled or
terminated pursuant to the terms of the LIC-WSSB
Loan Agreement, or
(2) the LIC Loan has become due and payable prior
to its maturity.



- 21 -
(B) However, subparagraph (A) shall not apply if WSSB estab-
lishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(1) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by any default of
WSSB, and
(2) adequate funds for the Project are available
to WSSB from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with those under the LIC-WSSB
Loan Agreement (Section 4.01(g) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
(b) Additional conditions of effectiveness include:
(i)  the execution of the LIC Agreement and the execution
of the LIC-WSSB Loan Agreement have been duly author-
ized or ratified by all necessary corporate action
(Section 5.01(c) and (d) of the Development Credit
Agreement); and
(ii)  the modifications to the institutional framework of
WSSB as agreed between the Association and Punjab
has been made effective (Section 5.01(e) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
72.       The execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between WSSB and
the participating MCs would be a condition of disbursement for expenditures
incurred by the sub-projects in the eight project towns (see paragraph 51).
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
August 23, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (7HOU KM2)                 -----               ------------------------------
INDIA                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TSTAi     32a0.5                                       MOST RECENT
ACRIC.    1797.5                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
---   - -- -- - - - - -- - - ---  --_- -------- _-   --   - ___---_ __----_--_-- _-- -__- ---_-_-_-  - --  _- _- ----
GNP ;R CAPITA (USs)                      60.0      100.0      150.0              130.0        230.0      550.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)          434.9      547.6    620.4  /a             117.6        36.9        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      133.0      167.0     189.0                62.0        123.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       247.0      308.0     345.0                411.0      375.0         49.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         43.2       41.0       37.0                45.9        44.2        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          23.9       19.0       17.0                20.6        13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/TNOU)       139.0/a       ..      130.0                  *-       81.0        110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       41.7       47.2       49.5                  *.       55.6        59.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2        2.9        2.8                 3.2         3.3         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.0        2.3        2.1                 2.0         3.0         2.9
URBAN                                 2.51b      3.2        3.1                 3.7/a       4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULAtION (1 OF tOTAL)           17.9       19.8      20.6                17. 5]      27.6        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.0       41.6       40.1                44.0        45.6        42.o
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.9       55.3       56.7                53.5        51.6        55.o
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.1       3.1        3.2                 2.5         2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.         08        D.                  0.9         0.9         0.8
ECONOmIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1I1        1.1.,/a   1.1: .                          1.5         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)         71.0   14585.0   37858.0                 259.3      320.0        250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..       16.7                  ..         2.0         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       175000.0  218000.0 261000. 0/a                         12400.0    29400.
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)         7110 6. 0             690  ..                         ss.o[       40.4
UNEMPLOYED (x OF LABOR FORCE)           4.8 Id     4.4  lb    4                    .a. 7.6                75
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            26.7       25.0 Jc                                       ,        35.0/a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7       53.1 :                            -       54.0         62.07ia
LO"E5T  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.1        4.7 J3       *        .                     6          3 o1T
LONEST  40S OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.6       13.1  3f ..6                                            11 
DISTRIBUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
X OWNED 8Y TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         .          ..                 ..          ..        45.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                                  ..                 ..          ..         1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             5840.0 L8.e 4890.0    4220.0             26370.0          .       1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        5310.0.&m220.0/d  3660.01e                7630.0/ge        .      3220.0Jjf
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2590.0/h  1610.0          ..              1640.0       850.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         95.0       92.0       89.0                91.0        93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              58.0       53.0      48.0                 43.0        45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.o01     16.0      126                  14.0       22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             44.0        ..          .                   .         6.6
EDUCATION
ADOUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       41.0      63.0       65.0                75.0        113.0        87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     23.0       30.0      29.0                15.0         49.0        68.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECONO LEVEL)             12.0       12.0       11.0                12.0        10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      9.0         .*         ..                29.0         6.0 /b     17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 24.0      33.0       36.0A               59.0          ..        64.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6        2.8         ..                 ..         2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (V)                         ..        ..         ..                  ..        76.0        73.0 /c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..         ..                  ..        23.0        48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                                                                          7.0         8.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           5.0       21.0      25.0               114.0        39.0        60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            0.7        1.0        1.0                2.0         8.0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            46.0    t14.0       143.0                20.0       235.0       491.0
NEWSPR'NT  '^ YR PER CAP)                0.2        0.3        0.3                0.3         2.0         2.7
SEE_NOTES A   DEFINITIONS ON-R-E--RS----
SEE 4DTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unleo otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to eny year between 1959  nd 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Most Recent Etieuote between
19 73 ad 1976. 
*   brasil hoe been eslctd as a  objective co..ury b canse of ite eise  nd casparable problem-  of regIonal inequality.
INDIA          1960    /a  1951-61 average;    /b  1951-60C    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15 and over;
/d  Estimated   by  National Ssple Survey, in terms of tbe averge nunber of peron/wee.k  of unemployment as per-en ctge
of total person/weekb  in the labor force;    /I  1962;    /f  Regietered, not a11 practicitg in the cntry;                   gj  Including
midwives;    /b  1958;    /i  1960-62.
1970    /a  Ratio of population cnder 15 aod 65  nd over to total labor force age 15 and over;    /b  Estimted by National Saple
Survey, in term of the average nasber of peraon/week of unomployment as parcentoge of total pereon/weeka in the tota1
labor foroa;    /c  1967-68;    /d  Including midwives.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  1978 mid-year population and labor force aetimated at 640.4 and 261 millions respectively;                   /b  Ratio of
population under 15 and 65 ed over to cotal labor force;            /c  1977;    /d  Fstiated by National SRple
Survy, in terms of the average number of pereon/week of unemployment as percentage of total person/weeka
in the labor force;   /I  Including midwives;    /f  Population 10 years and over.
TNDLONESIA     1970    /a  1961-71;    /b  1971;    /c  Including midwiv.
PHILIPPIMES   1970    /a  As percentage of employment;    /b  Not including private vocational  choolo.
BRAZIL         1970    /a  Econnoicaly active population;    lb  Hospital personnel;    Ic  Inoide only.
R13, May 2, 1978
D1WNITaNu    OF SOC, INDIICATORS
Land Aras (thou bIn2)                                                                      Poculation per nursing p-rson - Populstion divided by n.-bsr of practicing
Total - Total surface ares comprising land  rea and inland waters                            m.le and fiauls graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
aric. - Mot recast stia-te of gsricultural  rsea  us-d tampar-ily or parin-                  a.ilisry paronmal with trining or esperienc
natly for crops, pastures, market & kitchnn garden  or to lie fallow.                    Population per hospital bed - Popletion divdd by i,.r  f boepita1 beds
available in public and private general sod specilal d hospital and
GNP se  .ca.it. USS1   - GclP per capita astits  t currant mrket prina,                     rehilitation centrer; secludss  ursi.g hown  sod r *tc blis.hent  for
calculted by sam  conv-rsion _thod as World gask Atlee (1974-76 bseia);                    cu todial and preveotiw_ cre.
1960; 1970 sod 1976 data.                                                                Per cesita eunoly of calories ( of raauirnas.ts) - Computed from soergy
a1uiv6C;o  o7f me7t food eupplis availabls in icoutry per capita per dy;
Pouulation and vital  tatintic                                                               available eupplisa cnoprise doosatic production, imports Ioss exports, and
Population (mid-yasr million) - As of July firt:  if not available, -rsag                    chasgas in  tock; net supplies maclode anil feed, seeds, quantities used
of two and-year setimates; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                       in food procssing and loses in diatribotton; rquirv nte war es ctimted
by FAO base.d on phyaLologica1 needs for normal activity and health conald-
Populatlon density - per aqu-re be - Mid-year popultion par aquere kilost-                   aring *nviromtntal tmperature, body weights, age and es distributions of
(100 hactare) of total are.                                                                population,  nd allowing 101 for waste at housahold level.
Pocplatlon dauicy - ne anusrs kb  of anic. land - Compud as sows for                       Pa caPita suply of orotmin (sa    per day) - Protein nontant of per c.pitc
eg,icultural Ilnd only.                                                                     nt upply of food per day; net upply of food is defined as  bove; rtqulrt-
mote for all c..atries established by UlSDA Economic Raeearch Services
vital statistics                                                                              provide for   minisas allonsme of 60 gris of total protain per day, and
Crude birth rats per thowasd, avrag  - Annvul live birth. per thound of                       2t grs of *niml and pulas protain, of which 10 grasa  hould be animl
sid-year population; ten-year arith_sti  averages  nding in 1960 and 1970,                 protein; thee standards are lower than thoa- of 75 gra   of total protein
and five-ysar verage  nding in 1975 for mt recnt  stimte,                                  and 23 grss of animl protein    an soerage for the world, proposed by FAO
Cruds dsath rate per thouand. averate - Annual deatba per thousand of mid-year                in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year aritlatic  avrages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                Per capita protein suppl, fro  animal and plee - Protein supply of food
yaac average ending in 1975 for mat rec nt etimate,                                         derived fras  nimal  end pulses in grsAq  per day.
Infant mortality rats (/,hou.   - Ann.ul dsath  of infants under  one yer of ge            Deth rate (/thou sass 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousnd to age group 1-4
per thousand live birth..                                                                  y.ars, to children in thi   ge go p;  uggeeted           indinstor of
life expectancy at birth (yre) - Average number of years of life ramaining at                malnutrition.
birth; usually -iv-y.r av  r-p  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dsvslop-
ing co-otrie                                                                             Education
Gross reproduction rate - Averge number of live daughtars a woman vill bear                 Adjusted  nrolLent ratio - primry school - terullent of  11 ageS  a  pe-
in her norl reproductive period if ah  separi-nces prea..t ag6-pecific                      e-ntags  f primary school-ag  population; inclod-- children a8gd 6-li years
fertility  ratas; ueually fiv--yat ayvrages *nding in 1960, 1970 sod 1975                  but  djusted for different lengths of primary education; for countris with
for dv.I.ping countri*.                                                                    vuniversal education, enrollmnt my escead 100% since *oe pupils  re below
Poculation grovth rate (71 - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                 or sbov the official  chool age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary chool - Computed as above; -econdery
Population gro-th rate (%) - urban - Computed like grovth rate of total                       education requires  t leat four pests of pprovd primtry inatruction;
populstion; different definitions of urban *reas may  ffect comparability of                pro,idee general, vocational or teecher training instruction  for pupils
data sung countris..                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of ege; cnrrespoodec  coursas ar   enerally excluded.
Urban copulation M% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different               Yrer of schooling Prowided (first ad econd levels; - Total yers of
definition  of urban areas my affect comparability of dsta ang countries,                   schooling; at secondary levl, voctio-al istruction may be partially or
completely     =ccivVded.
Ade tru, tur- (percest) - Children (0-14 y           -ars)  worbing-ege (15-64 Ters)       Vocational asroll_et n of sacondary) - Vocation l institution  include
and retired (65 years aAd ovr) as p .cnntag-- of id-year ppultion.                          technical, indutrial or otber progra-   hinh operatc independently or as
Ae depend-ncy rstio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and or to those                     departments of secondary inatitutions.
of ags 15 through 64.                                                                     Adult literacy rate (2) - Litarate adults (able co read and yrlr.) a, per-
Fconomic dacandenc.  ratio - Ratio of population undsr 15 sod 65 and over to                  centage of total adult population egod 15 y.ara  nd over.
the labor forte c  ag  group of 15-64 ycare.
F_aily clannin _ - acceptorr (cuulative, thou) - Cumulative number of acceptors            Housing
of birch-control device  under auspices of netional family planning progra                Person Per oom  (urban) - Average number of prsons per room in occupied
since inceptIon,                                                                            conventional dellinge in orbsc ares. ; dwellinge  -oclodc non-permanent
Femilv plnnnin& - users (% of married women) - Percentages of   larrid vomen of               struture and unoccupied parts.
child-besring age (15-44 years) shi  ue birth-control devices to a11 mrried              Occupied dvellings witbhut piped water (2) - Occupied conventional dwellngs
iumec n stce age group.                                                                     in urban nd rural *rea without im id  or outside piped water facilities
se prcac..tage of all occupied dwellings
Employ-ent                                                                                  Acces to electricity (2 of a11 dwellings) - Conv-ntional dwellIngs with
Tots1 labor force (thousand) - Economically active perons, including aemd                     electricity in living quarters as percet of total dwellings in uban end
forco and unemployed but scluding hous-eive, st,dnts, etc.  definitions                    rural areas.
in various councrie  are not comparable.                                                 Rural dwellings connected to lectricity (2) - Computed as above for rural
Lahot force in zariculture (2) - Agricultural Ilbor force (in faring, forestry,               dwelling  only.
hunting and fiehing) as p-enentosa of total labor force.
unemployed (7 of labor fore) -  n_aployed are usually defined *a perone who                Consumption
are able  nd willing to take   job, out of a job on a givaen day, reined out             Radio receivera  (per thou pOP) - All type of recaivers for radio broadoe.ts
of a )ob, and .s.iking work for s specified minimum period not esceeding one               to general publir per thonnend of population; excludes ulicned rs.eioere
womk; my not be comparable betwen countri.e d.  to different definitions                    in countries and in yeara whn r. gistration of radio sets w   in effct;
of unmpFloyed snd source of data  .g., g mploymt office stotiatics, smple                   data for recent yars my nut be comparable since  osat countries abolished
-veye, compulsory unamployment insurance,                                                   licensing.
Paseneer care  (Por thou Pop) - Paseenger care compriae motor cars sating
Income distribution - Percstage of private income (both in ca  and kind)                      les than ight persons; *mclude  ambulances, hearrs  and military
-c..- .d     --ott 5%, richest 207., poorc-t 207, and poorest 40% of house-                 vehicle.
holds.                                                                                   Electricity (kwh/yr per sp) - Annu-l conameption of industrial  cnercil,
public aod private electricity in kclowatt h-ur per capita, generally
DS-trihubiuc of land ownership - percent.ges of land ow-nd by weslthisat 10%                  ba sd on producti   data,  ithout allowne for losses in grids ht all-
nd poor--t 10% of land ownr.                                                               ing fr imports and  aperts of e tcuricity.
Naeerimt (ha/yr Der cas) - Pec capita annul conaumption in kilogra
Maelth and Nutrition                                                                          satimted from  do_mtic production plue nt impots of neprint
Pop.lation Per Phyacian - Population divided by omeber of practicing
phyeiclans qualified fri   a mdical school at university leel.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976 A US$ 150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77 @/                                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (N. oonstant Prices) St
usS Bln.       J                                                1960/61-1964/65      1965/66-1969/70      1970/71-1975/76
GNP at Nlarket Prices            86.04       100.0                                                    3.9                  3.8                  2.9
Gross Domestic Investment        16.62        19.3
Gross National Saving            18.18        21.1
Current Account Balance           1.56         1.8
Resource Gap                      0.95         1.1
OUTPTJT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value Added (at factor cost)             Labor Force                 V.A. Per Worker
_Ss Rl.              %                 Mil.                          _i
Agriculture                      30.2                43                 179.0       69                169           63
Industry                         16.7                24                  33.9       13                494         193
Services                         23.4                33                  48.0       18                488          133
Total/average                    70.3               100                 261         100              277          100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                                  Central Government
(RB._Bln)                of GI                                     R. Bln)                 of GDP
1976/77       1976/77    1974/75-1976/77                           1976/77        1976/77    1974775-1976/77
Current Receipts                   147.46          19.1            17.9                                 83.78          10.9          10.4
Current Expenditures               140.18          18.2            16.2                                 84.25          10.9           9.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              7.28           0-9             1.7                                - 0.47            -            0.8
Capital Expenditures  e/            59-05           7.6             7.1                                40.39           5.2            5.0
External Assistance (net)           11.21           1.5             1.7                                 11.21           1.5            1.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES          1970/71      1972/7       1973/74     1974/75      1     6     1976/77       September 1976      September 1977
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period
Money and Quasi Money              105.7        142.2        169.0       186.9        215.0       262.6            238.2              284.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector(net)  56.9          82.5         92.9       102.6        109.1       117.3            112.7              130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector       56.7         76.0         90.1       109.5        127.5        161.0           144.0              170.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                             Januaxy 1977        January 1978
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP  24.3          27.3         26.4        25.5         27.6         31.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                 100.0        116.2       139.7        174.9        173.0       176.6            178.8              183.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7         10.0         20.2        25.2         -1.1          2.1             7.5                2.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  8.6          19.6         12.6        10.4          6.3         7.5              4.7               15.81/
Bank Credit to Private Sector        17.3        18.0         18.5        21.5         16.4        26.3             24.9 A             11.95/
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  Quick Estimates.
q/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
#/  Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
e/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
f/  Net bank credit to Government Sector.
4/ Bank credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 4
BAIANCE OF PAnIWTS                      1974/7S       J9156         iL6T            1977/78  N'HIAuNISz EXPORTS (AVIIOG  1  974/75 - 1976/77)
(05ST Million)                                                                         oSE.             _
Exports of Goods                          4,174         4,665         5,760          6,400                             Engineering Goods           515            11
Imports of Goods                         -5,665        -6,084        -5,950         -6,600                             Sugar                       379             8
Trade Balane                             -1 ,491       -1,419        -  19         -  200                             Tea                         296             6
NiS  (net)                                  215           310           405            500                             Jute Manufactures           294             6
Leather and Leather
Resource GBa                             -1,278        -1,109           215            300                                      Products           268             5
Clothing                   257             5
Intereet Psayiente (net)                 -  198       -  216         -  135            130                             Iron Ore                    238             5
Other Faotor Payments (net)                  -             -              -              -                             Cotton Textiles             223             5
Net Tranefere . /                           257           470           730          1,000                             Othere                     2396           100
Total                     4866           100
Balace on Current Aceount                -1,217       -  855            810          1,170
Official Aid                                                                                                           EUAL  DEBT, NIICP 51. 1977 _/
Disbursnments                         1,761        2,341         1,953           1,840                                                                  us$ Billo
Amortization                           -515         -531          -560          -  630                             Outetanding and Diabureed                 13.6
Transactions with niF                       522           242         -536           -  330                            Oundiabur ied                              3.2
All Other Item                             -589          -403          -292              23                            Outstanding,including Undiebureed         16.8
Increase in Reserves ()                      38          -794       -1,575          -2,073                             DgM  SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77           14.4   percent
Gross Reserves  aend year)                1,378         2,172         3,747           5,820
Net Reserves (end year)   /                                           3758  1,363  3,276  5,670                        IBR7/IDA LENDING. December 11. 1977  (USi lEn.)
FUel and Related Nateriale                                                                                                                                 IBRD         IDA
Ilporte                                   1,451         1,417        1,580         1,800                               Outstanding and Disbureed         489.0      3,560.5
of which: Petroleum                    1,451        1,417         1,580         1,800                               Undiebureed                       674.9      1,257.0
Outstandlinxg, including
Exporte                                      26            43            37         n.a.                                     Undiabursed                1,163.9     4,817.5
of which, Petroleum                       17            22           21          n.a.
RATE OF EXCHIANGE
Prier to nid-Deoesber 1971    I    US$1.00 = Re 7.5                                                                    After end June 1972    ,   Floating Rate
Re 1.00 =USslo.t55553                                                              Spot Rate January 31, 1978
Mid-Deoeober 1971 to            I    US01.00 =Re 7.27927                                                                          approx. US$1.00 = Re 8.063
end June 1972                    Rs 1.00 = u3t0.137376                                                                         approx. Ra 1.00 = UlS0.124
h/ Esti=sted.
4/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans  and
oharges paid to IMP, and major receipt is interest esned on foreign assets.
,1/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, whioh is included
within official aid disbursements.
4/  Excludes net use of IM  credit.
A! imortisation and interest paymnts on foreign lcane as a percentage of mac-handise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of July 31, 1978)
US$ Million-
Loan or                                                                                           (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.       Year       Borrower                  Purpose                             Bank        IDA       Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                               1,100.6
53 Credits fully disbursed                                                                          2,884.6
267-IN           1971        India         Wheat Storage                                   --           5.0          3.2
294-IN           1972        India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                      --          14.0          7.6
312-IN           1972        India         Population                                      __          21.2         4.9
342-IN           1972        India         Education                                       --          12.0         8.4
356-IN           1972        India         IDBI                                            --          25.0         10.0
377-IN           1973        India         Power Transmission III                          --          85.0          1.5
378-IN           1973        India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                     --           8.0          6.8
902-IN           1973        ICICI         Industry DFC X                                  65.6        --            3.9
390-IN           1973        India         Brmbay Water Supply                             --          55.0         19.7
427-IN           1973        India         Calcutta Urban Development                      --          35.0          6.9
440-IN           1973        India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                       --          32.0         13.3
456-IN           1974        India         HP Apple Processing & Marketing                 --          13.0          8.8
481-IN           1974        India         Trombay IV                                      --          50.0         10.0
1011-IN           1974        India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                         52.0        --          32.5
482-IN           1974        India         Karnataka Dairy                                 --          30.0        23.6
502-IN           1974        India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                             --          83.0        46.6
520-IN           1974        India         Sindri Fertilizer                               --          91.0        11.5
521-IN           1974        India         Rajasthan Dairy                                 --          27.7        24.9
522-IN           1974        India         Madhya Pradesh Dairy                            --          16.4         13.3
526-IN           1975        India         Drought Prone Areas                             --          35.0         20.5
1079-IN           1975        IFPCO          IFFCO Fertilizer                              109.0        --           56.7
1097-IN           1975        ICICI         Industry DFC XI                                100.0        --          20.9
532-IN           1975        India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                     --          45.0         19.3
541-IN           1975        India         West Bengal Agricultural Development            --          34.0         23.6
562-IN           1975        India         Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                    --          24.0         14.9
572-IN           1975        India         Rural Electrification                           --          57.0         44.1
582-IN           1975        India         Railways XIII                                   --         110.0          6.2
585-IN           1975        India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                      --          40.0         34.7
598-IN           1975        India         Fertilizer Industry                             --         105.0         84.9
604-IN           1976        India         Power Transmission IV                           --         150.0        128.4
609-IN           1976        India         Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                    --           4.0          3.5
610-IN           1976        India         Integrated Cotton Development                   --          18.0         17.6
1251-IN(TW)       1976        India         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                      145.0        --         136.9
1260-IN           1976        India         IDBI II                                         40.0        --           35.8
1273-IN           1976        India         National Seed                                   25.0        --           25.0
1313-IN           1976        India         Telecommunications VI                           80.0        --           28.4
1335-IN           1976        BMRDA          Bombay Urban Transport                         25.0        --           17.9
680-IN           1977        India         Kerala Agricultural Development                 --          30.0         30.0
682-IN           1977        India         Orissa Agricultural Development                 --          20.0         19.5
685-IN           1977        India          Singrauli Thermal Power                        --         150.0        137.0
687-IN           1977        India         Madras Urban Development                        --          24.0         21.8
695-IN           1977        India         Gujarat Fisheries                               --           4.0          4.0
1394-IN(TW)       1977        India         Gujarat Fisheries                               14.0        --           14.0
690-IN           1977        India         West Bengal Agricultural Development            --          12.0         12.0
712-IN           1977        India         Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development    --               10.0         10.0
715-IN           1977        India          Second AROC Credit                             --         200.0        151.8
720-IN           1977        India         Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                       --          23.0         22.3
728-IN           1977        India         Assam Agricultural Development                  --           8.0          7.8
1473-IN           1977        India          Brmbay Nigh Offshore Development              150.0        --           87.1
736-IN           1977        India         Maharashtra Irrigation                          --          70.0         70.0
737-IN           1977        India         Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                --          13.0         13.0
740-IN           1977        India         Orissa Irrigation                               --          58.0         58.0
1475-IN           1977        ICICI          Industry DFC XII                               80.0        --           74.9
747-IN           1978        India          Second Foodgrain Storage                       --         107.0        105.9
756-IN           1978        India          Second Calcutta Urban Development              --          87.0         79.5
761-IN           1978        India          Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research    --                8.0         8.0
1511-IN           1978        India         IDBI Joint/Public Sector                        25.0        --           25.0
1549-IN*          1978        TEC           Third Trombay Thermal Power                    105.0        --          105.0
788-IN*          1978        India          Karnataka Irrigation                           --         126.0        126.0
793-IN*          1978        India          Korba Thermal Power                            --         200.0        200.0
806-IN*          1978        India         Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                      --          14.0         14.0
808-IN*          1978        India          Gujarat Irrigation                             --          85.0         85.0
815-IN*          1978        India          Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                       --           17.5        17.5
816-IN*          1978        India          Second National Seed                           --           16.0        16.0
1592-IN       .  1978         India         Telecommunications VII                         120.0        --          120.0
824-IN*          1978        India         National Dairy                                  --         150.0        150.0
842-IN*          1978        India          Second Bombay Water Supply & Sewerage          --          196.0       196.0
Total                                                                 2,236.2    5,738.4
of which has been repaid                                              883.8         39.8
Total now outstanding                                                  1,352.4    5,698.6
Amount Sold                                113.3
of which has been repaid                111.5                           21.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                         1,330.6    5,698.6
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                          559.0    1,369.3
* Not yet effective.
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.                                                                               August 1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of July 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8        1.0       12.8
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0        1.2        5.2
TOTAL                               53.6       10.0       63.6
Less:  Sold                                  6.0        1.6        7.6
Repaid                               14.5        -        14.5
Cancelled                            6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                            26.9        7.7       34.6
Undisbursed                          6.5        1.2        7.7



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$496.4 million in FY78 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,928 million
as of July 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loans
902-IN and 1097-IN are fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of
schedule. Disbursements under Loan 1475-IN (US$5.1 million) are also ahead of
schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
This Credit was originally intended to provide three years'
support for a lending program for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower-than-
estimated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs com-
pared with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date and
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
and to extend the project area to cover the whole State of Bihar. Disburse-
ments are expected to accelerate, and the physical targets should be achieved
by the revised closing date.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
This project is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. As of July 31, 1978, disbursements amounted to about
US$48.2 million, of which some 87% have been for minor irrigation and 13% for
diversified lending. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%. Training
programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing satisfactor-
ily. Preparation of a third line of credit is underway and the preparation
report is expected to be submitted to the Association by September 1978.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267-IN, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for Credit 747-IN, which is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date (expected):  October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit 456 includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote oak
mushroom production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 of the 10 packing and grad-
ing sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,
and the equipment is being ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date (expected): September 19,
1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Loan 1313-IN is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements reached
US$51.6 million as of July 31, 1978.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377-IN was slow initially and as a conse-
quence it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date by one year. How-
ever, an amount of US$83.5 million had been disbursed by the end of July 1978
and the balance should be disbursed before the revised Closing Date. Under
Credit 604-IN, contracts aggregating about US$50 million had been awarded by
March 1978 and disbursements as of July 31, 1978 were US$21.6 million. This
Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million to meet increased
costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; all but US$4 million of
this amount has also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily. Mechanical completion of the
entire plant should result in August 1979. Credit 598-IN is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
March 1978, appraisals had been completed for 50, and loans approved for 47
markets. Construction had been completed for 16 and was in progress for 23
markets. Farmers and traders served by the 8 market yards now in operation
report more efficient marketing activities and improved farmers' terms of
trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is improving. As of June 1977,
when the project was last reviewed, construction was underway for 36 of the
39 project markets. Plans and land acquisition are nearing completion at
the remaining sites. Both projects are expected to be completed by their
respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. An initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements, which have been slow because of initial delays, should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date:  June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date:  May 31, 1978; Closi7ng Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed, and disbursements had reached US$15.0 million
by the end of July 1978. In order to continue the Bank Group's involvement
in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260-IN) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$4.2 million by the end of
July. Loan 1511-IN is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of the major



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and it is forecast
that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of additional
water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of water treatment
works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically forecast.
Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has allowed
engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so that
completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for 1980, two years
later than originally forecast.  Financial performance of the project entity
is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by March 1979. Credit 756-IN
is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's administra-
tive authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to rehabilitate
and extend its urban service system.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19, 1978;
Effective Date (expected): September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 600 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 310 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 450 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements stood at US$25.7 million on July 31, 1978.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
mIllion loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:  September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 11, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date (expected):  October 17, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
AXugust 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$13.0
million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects, totalling US$71 million, finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The projects' components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production of steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year in
order to complete implementation of the project.  Disbursements as of July 31,
1978 were 94% of the total credit amount.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date (expected): October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273-IN supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of:  seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now being made since endorsement of the project by the
new Government in September 1977 and is expected to gain further momentum
as GOI has filled the two top posts of the National Seeds Corporation, which
were vacant for several months and adversely affected the project. A project
supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit 816-IN)
was signed July 17, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single deck and 175 double
deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have been delivered. Bids for
an additional 200 buses are being evaluated. Civil works contracts have been
awarded for 8 bus facilities, and 13 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are
expected in implementing some BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST
workshop schemes although steps are being taken to minimize such delays.
Consultants in organization, administration, financial management systems,
accounting and development planning are at work assisting the Borrower, the
Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority. Other beneficiaries of
the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and
Transport Undertaking, have selected consultants in traffic engineering and
operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and        million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date (expected): September 19,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Progress on Gujarat Fisheries project is good. All project imple-
mentation units appear to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is
progressing as anticipated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Ln. No. 1549   Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date (expected): September 19,
1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Credit 685-IN assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793-IN. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbogenerators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549-IN is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements stood at US$62.9 million on July 31, 1978.
.



ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
PUNJAB WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (WSSB)
assisted by IDA.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
June 1976; October 1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 10, 1977.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 10, 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
December 31, 1978
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(1) The modifications to the institutional framework
of WSSB is a condition of credit effectiveness
(para 47).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(2)  WSSB would employ qualified staff in sufficient
numbers to carry out the proposed investment pro-
gram and to assist the MCs to operate and maintain
the works and facilities constructed or improved
on their behalf (para 47).
(3)  WSSB would engage consultants to advise both WSSB
and the MCs on training programs and sewage treatment
works (para 47).
(4)  MCs would establish separate water supply and
sewerage departments (para 48).
(5)  MCs would be required to adopt by September 30, 1979,
technical and financial performance criteria and
indicators on operation and maintenance (para 48).
(6)  IDA's review and approval of the technical reports
for all eight towns would be made a condition of
disbursement for these subprojects (para 49).
(7)  The signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between
WSSB and the MCs would be conditions of credit
disbursement (para 51).
(8)  Contributions from MCs would be in the form of
capital grants. GOP would be required to provide
these funds in the event the MCs fail to do so
(para 51).
(9)  The preparation of a credit program and the formula-
tion of detailed programs for sewer connections
would be conditions of disbursement (para 54).
(10)  GOP has proposed that from April 1, 1979, the MCs
would introduce full sewerage charges for all
premises not connected to the system but which have
access to it (para 54).
(11)  During the construction period, GOP would cause each
MC to cover annual operating expenses, working capital
and debt service or depreciation, whichever is higher
(para 56).
(12)  GOP would cause each MC to generate internal cash
at the rate of at least 30% in FY1982/83, 35% in
FY1983/84, and 40% from FY1984/85 onwards (para 57).
(13)  The MCs shall not incur any long-term debt unless its
net income before interest and depreciation is at
least 1.5 times debt service (para 57).



ANNEX III
Page 3
(14) GOP would provide WSSB with Rs 80 million (US$9.3
million) as working capital (para 58).
(15) MCs would implement a public utility commercial account-
ing system by April 1, 1980, for the eight towns; WSSB
would also implement a similar system by the same date
(para 59).
(16) Force account labor for civil works shall not exceed
US$30,000 equivalent without the prior agreement of
IDA (para 61).



XGuOr  A  MMU  -s  ANDU        )KASHMIR   f               C bo                                                          'nook
/    Doboosie                         ~~~~~~INDIA
PUNJAB WATER SUPPLY
I /  C    s  ot$                   AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
G   Proiect Towns
I0   Oth, To 
-'5   ,<    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                - Mois Roods
<   Sa.           X    0  .    . fiS                          .            .                         . ..p- oRowys
PI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t Jr     \LI'
,  *so         H    A    R  X Y        o   lo~~~~0     20   CQ  40  50  ro  AHAHnAA                 2)0 o
rKL3METEwS SA                       \ J           rr
~~~111~~~~~1;1 ANA8A                                      0)68
rnrSvJpnashnv E ig  d b rh Wod Bas ssesf E.y.#WV B 1h .o25 nse2,          19    19    20    25    30    JO  409    
F."nessh  orxo,mSdoolizzzIM lh r lo( wvId e r,                                 of.ILES0)3                            IN
5,/Jjvlas snn ,ns,n~n n Os "05 ngs>n.,On.,nn5,slr,snsn ,,                                                                                        /I LANKAk
WCL!p/-n  ...  Vt  5dCh boyndaNr. l I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j 



