CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 848 IN
Project Agreement
(Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PUNJAB WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD
Dated October 27, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 848 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
PUNJAB WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD (hereinafter called WSSB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to thirty-eight million dollars ($38,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that WSSB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS WSSB intends to contract from the Life Insurance
Corporation of India (hereinafter called LIC) a loan of
Rsl30,OOO,OOO (hereinafter called the LIC Loan) to assist in the
financing of the Project on terms and conditions, including inter
alia those set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, set forth or
referred to in an agreement to be entered into between LIC and
WSSB (hereinafter called the LIC-WSSB Loan Agreement); and
WHEREAS WSSB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. WSSB shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence


﻿-2-
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist WSSB and the MCs in:
(i) the preparation of management, organization and
staffing proposals and the development and imple-
mentation of project monitoring systems and
administrative procedures;
(ii) the establishment of accounting and financial
management information systems and their imple-
mentation;
(iii) the development of tariff structures and levels
based on appropriate socio-economic research; and
(iv) the design of water treatment works;
WSSB shall retain under its employment managerial, accounting,
financial and engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
(b) In order to assist WSSB and the MCs in:
(i) the identification of training needs and prepara-
tion of a training program; and
(ii) the preparation of preliminary and detailed engi-
neering designs for sewage treatment works;
WSSB shall, by February 1, 1979 or such later date as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, employ training and engineering con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) WSSB undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by Punjab against


﻿-3-
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insur-
ance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
WSSB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, WSSB
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by Punjab to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) WSSB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) WSSB: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost thereof and 'he benefits to be derived from it), and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by Punjab, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its costs and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit so
relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) WSSB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plant installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of WSSB and any relevant records and documents.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and WSSB, WSSB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the


﻿-4-
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Association and WSSB of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. (a) WSSB shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) WSSB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by WSSB of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.07. WSSB shall relend funds equivalent to the pro-
ceeds of the Credit to the MCs on the same terms and conditions as
those of the financial arrangements entered into between Punjab
and WSSB under Section 2.02 (a) (ii) of the Punjab Agreement.
Section 2.08. By February 1, 1979 or such later date as the
Association shall otherwise agree, WSSB shall prepare and furnish
to the Association for its review the consultants' recommendations
on staffing and recruitment proposals for WSSB and the MCs. WSSB
shall, based on these and the Association's recommendations,
employ adequate and qualified staff to carry out the Project and
to assist the MCs in the operation and maintenance of the water
supply and sewerage systems to be constructed or improved under
the Project.
Section 2.09. In order to monitor the progress of the Project
and strengthen its financial management, WSSB shall establish
project monitoring and financial management information systems
within WSSB which shall be functioning by April 1, 1979 or such
later date as the Association shall otherwise agree.
Section 2.10. By July 1, 1979 or such later date as the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, WSSB shall, in conjunction with the
MCs and with the assistance of the training consultants, carry out
the training program included in Part A.1 of the Project which
shall have been reviewed by the Association and Punjab.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of WSSB
Section 3.01. WSSB shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound finan-
cial, administrative, engineering and public utility practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent manage-
ment assisted by adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. (a) WSSB shall at all times maintain its
existence and the right to carry on its operations and to
acquire and retain ownership of all lands and maintain and
renew all interests in land and other properties, and take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business or in the carrying out of the
Project.
(b) WSSB shall at all times operate and maintain its machi-
nery, equipment and other property, and make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering prac-
tices.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
WSSB shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
any of its property or assets required for the efficient opera-
tion of the Project, except in the normal course of business.
Section 3.03. WSSB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association, for insurance against such risk and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. WSSB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropri-
ate accounting practices its operations and financial condi-
tion.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. WSSB shall maintain its accounts in accordance
with a full public utility commercial accounting system starting
on April 1, 1980.
Section 4.03. WSSB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of WSSB and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of WSSB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify WSSB
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or wade under Lthi  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For WSSB:
Managing Director
Punjab Water Supply and
Sewerage Board
SCO 123-124 Sector 17-C
Chandigarh, India
Cable address:
PUNWATER
Chandigarh, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of WSSB may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as WSSB shall


﻿-8-
designate in writing, and WSSB shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
PUNJAB WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD
By /s/ R. L. Misra
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of materials and equipment shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, WSSB shall
prepare and forward to the Association as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods and works in question. WSSB shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works,
including those under Part B of this Schedule, shall be grouped so
as to encourage competition and to permit bulk procurement consis-
tent with appropriate technical and procurement practices.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for purchase of materials and equipment estimated
to cost $100,000 equivalent or less and contracts for purchase of
stoneware and concrete pipes shall be let on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures
of Punjab satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for civil works shall be executed on the basis of:
(i) competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with


﻿- 10
procedures of Punjab satisfactory to the Association, or (ii)
force account, with the prior approval of the Association.
3.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
$30,000 equivalent may be executed through force account.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the purchaser of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of WSSB and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 11 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a r3ult of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for materials and equipment
to be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
and all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, WSSB shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to hid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
toge,her with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and u1holl make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, WSSB
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform


﻿- 12 -
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform WSSB
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
WSSB shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform WSSB and the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms and Conditions
of the LIC-WSSB Loan Agreement
1.   The amount of the LIC Loan shall be Rsl30,OO0,OOO.
2.   Repayment shall be over 25 years including three years of
grace from the date of withdrawal of the first installment of the
LIC Loan.
3.   Interest shall be paid at the rate of 8.5% per annum and
shall be payable half yearly.
4.   The proceeds of the LIC Loan shall be used exclusively to
finance the local expenditures under Sub-projects approved by LIC
and the Association.
5.   The goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the LIC Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement.


