CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 848 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 27, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 848 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 1978, between INDIA, acting by
its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Punjab Agreement) between the Association and the State
of Punjab, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Punjab),
Punjab has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the Project;
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Project Agreement) between the Association and the
Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (hereinafter called WSSB),
WSSB has agreed to carry out the Project and to undertake certain
other obligations in respect of the Project;
(D) WSSB intends to contract from the Life Insurance Cor-
poration of India (hereinafter called LIC) a loan of Rsl30,OO0,OOO
(hereinafter called the LIC Loan) to assist in the financing of
the Project on terms and conditions, including those set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, set forth or referred to in
an agreement (hereinafter called the LIC-WSSB Loan Agreement),
to be entered into between LIC and WSSB;
(E) by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the LIC Agreement) between the Association and LIC, the
parties thereto have agreed to coordinate the withdrawal and use
of proceeds of the loan to be provided by LIC; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, in the Punjab
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Punjab" means the State of Punjab, a State of India
or any successor thereof;
(b) "Punjab Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Punjab, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the Punjab Agreement;
(c) "Act" means the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Act,
1976 of Punjab, as amended;
(d) "WSSB" means the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage
Board established by the Act;
(e) "LIC" means the Life Insurance Corporation of India,
a statutory corporation established by the Life Insurance Cor-
poration Act, 1956 of the Borrower;
(f) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and WSSB of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to
the Project Agreement;
(g) "LIC Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Association and LIC, as the same may be amended
from time to time;


﻿(h) "Sub-project" means a water supply project, a sewerage
project or a water supply and sewerage projeLt carried out or
proposed to be carried out under the Project;
(i) "Three Towns" means the towns of Jullundur, Amritsar
and Ludhiana in Punjab;
(j) "Five Towns" means the towns of Moga, Patiala, Rajpura,
Bhatinda and Pathankot in Punjab;
(k) "Eight Towns" means the eight towns mentioned in para-
graphs (i) and (j) above;
(1) "MCs" means the Municipal Corporations and the Municipal
Committees of the Eight Towns and "MC" means a Municipal Corpor-
ation or a Municipal Committee of said MCs;
(m) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means agreements between
WSSB and the MCs, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and all agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements; and
(n) "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty-eight million dollars ($38,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out


﻿-4-
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1989, and ending
August 1, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Punjab and WSSB to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Punjab Agreement and the
Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Punjab and WSSB to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Punjab in accordance with the Borrower's standard
arrangements for development assistance to the States of India.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Punjab shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Punjab Agreement;
(b) WSSB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(c) LIC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the LIC Agreement;
(d) Punjab shall have taken any action for the dissolution
or disestablishment of WSSB or for the suspension of the operation
of WSSB;
(e) the Act shall have been amended in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of WSSB to carry
out its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(f) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that WSSB will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(g) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of WSSB to withdraw the proceeds
of the LIC Loan shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the LIC-WSSB Loan
Agreement, or
(B) the LIC Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if WSSB establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:


﻿-6-
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
- prematuring is not caused by the failure
of WSSB to perform any of its obligations
under the LIC-WSSB Loan Agreemeht, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to WSSB from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations
of WSSB under the LIC-WSSB Loan Agreement.
Section 4.02 For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) or (g) (i)
(B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Punjab Agreement on behalf of
Punjab has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of WSSB
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
and corporate action;
(c) the execution of the LIC Agreement on behalf of LIC
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(d) the execution of the LIC-WSSB Loan Agreement on behalf
of LIC and WSSB, respectively, has been duly authorized or rati-
fied by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and


﻿-7-
(e) the modifications to the institutional framework of
WSSB as agreed between the Association and Punjab have been
carried out.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Punjab Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Punjab, and is legally binding upon Punjab in
accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by WSSB, and is legally binding upon WSSB in accor-
dance with its terms;
(c) that the LIC Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by LIC, and is legally binding upon LIC in accordance
with its terms; and
(d) that the LIC-WSSB Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by LIC and WSSB, respectively, and is legally
binding upon LIC and WSSB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date January 25, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which this Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of
Finance, Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ R. L. Misra
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              23,000,000
materials
(a) procured by                              100% of foreign
international                           expenditures or
competitive                             100% of local
bidding                                 expenditures
(ex-factory)
(b) procured by                              45%
methods other
than interna-
tional competi-
tive bidding
(2) Civil works                12,500,000         45%
(3) Consultants'                  600,000         100%
services and
training
(4) Unallocated                 1,900,000
TOTAL      38,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods


﻿- 10 -
or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 may be made in respect of
Category (3) on account of expenditures made before that date but
after February 28, 1978; and
(b) payments made for expenditures in a Sub-project in
any of the Eight Towns until:
(i) the Association has approved such Sub-project;
(ii) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between WSSB and
the MC concerned has been executed;
(iii) the Association has approved the recommendations
of WSSB and the MC concerned on credit terms and
conditions for financing water supply and sewerage
connection costs including WCs, and the selection
criteria for credit eligibility of their customers;
and
(iv) the Association has approved the detailed imple-
mentation program in respect thereof.


﻿- 11 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are to assist in the development
of the water supply and sewerage sector in Punjab, to construct
and improve water supply and sewerage services in the Eight Towns
and to introduce a sound public utilities approach to such
services. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A - Sector Development
1.   Provision of technical assistance, training and specialized
equipment for the development and strengthening of WSSB and water
supply and sewerage departments of MCs. Services will be provided
to assist in the preparation of management, organization and
staffing proposals and in the establishment of project monitoring,
accounting and financial management information systems.
2.   Studies of water and sewerage tariffs in the Eight Towns.
Part B - Sub-projects
1.   Construction and improvement of water supply works in the
Eight Towns to serve an additional population of about 800,000
people. These water supply Sub-projects would include the follow-
ing major components: about 28 tubewells, 31 service reservoirs,
2 treatment works and 480 kilometers of transmission and distribu-
tion mains.
2.   Construction and improvement of sewerage and sewage disposal
works in the Eight Towns to serve an additional population of
about 1,200,000 people. These sewerage Sub-projects would include
the following major components: about 120,000 connections and WCs,
600 kilometers of laterals, 140 kilometers of interceptors and
outfalls and 2 pumping stations.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1982.


