Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AA/ 32z  3-MO#t
X    v       3Zq~~ Z 4      °                   Reprt No. 8569-MOR
STAFF APPRAtSAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
NOVEMBER 29, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division.
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Tbi document has a reshicted ditdibtbn and may be used by reints oly i nh perbDYt of
dek officW duts Its contens may not othrie be diclosed wihout Wodd Bank atraga"t.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EOUIVAlENTS
(as of December 31, 1989)
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$1    -    DH 8.25
DH 1   -    US$0.121
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                      British/US System
1 meter (m)                   -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              -    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (kn2)      -    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =    0.984 long ton (lg ton)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CPA       =    Autonomous Profit Center (Centre de Profit Autonome)
COMANAV   -    Compagnie Marocaine de Navigation
DEP       -    Port Operations Directorate (Direction d'Exploitation Portuaire)
DEPP      -    Directorate of Public Enterprises and Participations
,)MM      -    Merchant Marine Directorate (Direction de la Marine Marchande)
DP        -    Directorate of Ports
DPCM      -    Directorate of the Port of Casablanca and Mohammedia
EDP       -    Electronic Data Processing
ITPA      -    Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
MOT       -    Ministry of Transport
MPW       -    Ministry of Public Works (Ministere des Travaux Publics, de la
Formation Professionnelle et de la Formation des Cadres)
PDPN      -    National Port Master Plan (Plan Directeur Portuaire National)
OCP       -    Office Ch6rifien des Phosphates
ODEP      -    Office of Port Operations (Office d'Exploitation des Ports)
ONCF      m   National Railway Authority (Office National des Chemins de Fer)
ONE       -    National Electricity Board (Office National de l'Electricit6)
ONICL     -    Cereals Board (Office National Interprofessionnel des Cereales
et des Legumineuses)
ONT            Office National du Transport
PERL      -    Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan
RAPC      -    Regie d'Acconage du Port de Casablanca
SIPROMAR  -    National  Commission  for  Simplification  of  Foreign  Trade
Procedures
(This report uses the acronyms of the French titles in those cases where the
Moroccan practice is to refer to the agency In question by its acronyms).
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loans and Project Summary ...................... .   iii
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR . . . . .                                           1
A. Transport and the Economy .1
B. Transport Organization.                                             2
C. Transport Investments.                                              3
D. Sector Issues and Strategy.                                         5
E.   Bank Experience in the Transport Sector   . . . . . . . . . . .   6
II. THE PORT AND MARITIME SUBSECTORS.                                       7
A. Port Faciiities and Traffic.                                        7
B.  Maritime Transport and Shipping   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
C.  Trade Facilitation and Logistics  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
D. Port Organization .11
E.  Port Operations and Maintenance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
F.  Port Planning and Investment Program  ... .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
G.  Accounting and Auditing   ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   18
H.   Tariffs and Cost Recovery   ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
III. THE PROJECT  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   22
A. Project Origin and Objectives .22
B. Project Description .23
C. Cost Estimates .27
D. Financing Plan .28
E.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
F. Procurement .30
G. Disbursements .32
H. Project Monitoring and Reporting .33
I. Environmental Aspects .33
J. Impact on Employment .35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Morocco in March
1990 composed of Jean-Francois Maquet (Senior Port Engineer), Pathi Ben Slimane
(Financial Analyst), Roy Knighton (Senior Economist).   Christian Brossard
(Environment Specialist) participated in the pre-appraisal mission.
This Document has a restted distribution and may be used by reipien only in the peformance of their
oMchtduses 1X contents may not otherwise be didosed wkhout World Bank authorizatio



- ii -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
A. General .36
B. Traffic Forecasts .36
C. Economic Analysis .40
D. Project Risks .44
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION .45
A.  Past and Present Financial Performance .45
B.  Future Financial Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMNENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  51
ANNEXES
1.  Action Plan  .........  ..   ..............  ..   .   55
2.  ODEP's Organization, Staffing and Training   . . . . . . . . . . . .  65
3.  Port Investment Program: 1990-93   .....  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .   .   70
4.  Projected Tariff Structure and Level   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  76
5.  Procedures and Criteria for Economic Evaluation of Subprojects   . .  78
6.  Detailed Program for Project Execution   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  83
7.  Review of Local Competitive Bidding Procedures   . . . . . . . . . .  89
8.  Estimated Schedules of Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  90
9.  Project Monitoring   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  91
10.  Performance Indicators and Targets   ... .  .  .    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  94
11.  Environmental Impact   ....  .  .  .  .  .   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  97
12.  Economic Evaluation  ....  .  .  .  .   . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 105
13.  Past Financial Statements  ....  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 118
14.  Assumptions and Financial Projections  ... .   ..... .  .  .  .  .   . 122
15.  List of Project File Documents   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
TABLES
1.  Port Facilities  .... .  .  .  .  .   . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  133
2.  Distribution of Traffic by Port: 1988 .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
3.  Division of Responsibility between DP and ODEP .      . . . . . . . . . 135
4.  Productivity Data  ....  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  136
5.  Key Elements for the Contract Plan   ... .  .  .   .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 138
6.  Technical Assistance and Consulting Services .      . . . . . . . . . . 139
7.  Initial Allocation of the Two Bank Loans .       . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
CHARTS
1. DP Organization Chart    ..142
2. DPCM Organization Chart    ..143
3.  ODEP Headquarters Organization Chart   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 144
4.  DEPC Organization of Casablanca Port Operations Unit   . . . . . . . 145
IBRD 22288 Morocco Port System
IBRD 22287 Casablanca Port Layout
IBRD 22286 Jorf Lasfar Port Layout
IBRD 22285 Tangier Port Layout



- iii -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Loans and Project Summary
BORROVERS:          Kingdom of Morocco, and
Office d'Exploitation des Ports (ODEP)
Kingdom of Morocco (for the loan to ODEP)
BENKFICIARIES:      Ministry of Public Works (MPW), Ministry of Fisheries and
Merchant Marine, and ODEP
AIOUNTS:             Loan to the Kingdom of Morocco: US$33 million
Loan to ODEP: US$99 million
TRlW:               Both loans will be repayable in 20 years including five
years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
PRJET
OBJECTIUES:.        The project would support Government's efforts to liberalize
trade and promote exports through increasing efficiency and
financial viability of the port subsector.   The main
objectives of the project are to : (a) improve operational
efficiency in the ports to cope with the growth and changing
structure of foreign trade; (b) assist the Government in
strengthening the economic viability of its investments in
the port subsector generally and increasing the recovery of
infrastructure costs; and (c) encourage policies and
institutional measures aiming at better planning and
coordination of port activities in relation to its promotion
of foreign trade.
P!ROECT
DESCRIPTION:        The project consists of an investment component to be
financed under the two loans, and an institutional
development component addressing identified issues in the
port sector. The investment component would finance: (a)
selected subprojects of ODEP's investment program for the
period 1991-1993; (b) a portion of the investment and
maintenance program of the Ministry of "14blic Works (MPW)
in the port sector for the period 1991-1993; and (c)
construction of a radar control tower for marine security.
Selected subprojects for ODEP would specifically include:
(i) a new container terminal at Casablanca; (ii) a coal
handling facility at Jorf Lasfar;  (iii) improved Ro-Ro
facilities at Tangier; (iv) equipment for port security;



- iv -
and (iv) technical assistance and training. MPW's program
focuses entirely on rehabilitation of breakwaters and
dredging. The Development Programs of the port subsector
and of ODEP provide a comprehensive time-bound framework for
monitoring the key institutional development objectives
under the project with particular reference to: (a) quality
and efficiency of port services; (b) trade facilitation,
particularly in respect of port procedures and information
systems; (c) investment planning; (d) environment and
safety; and (e) finance, including cost recovery and fixed
assets management.
BENEFITS:           Port efficiency is an important element in stimulating
trade. Modernization of port facilities under the country's
port development program will also ensure foreign exchange
savings on sea freight rates for both exports and imports.
The ongoing Port Project, though limited in scope, has
helped improve operational efficiency in the port of
Casablanca and the management and financial viability of
ODEP. Continued Bank involvement would help further improve
investment planning, operational efficiency and cost
recovery policies. Moreover, the project would assist in
developing environmental capability and awareness in the
agencies  of  the  sector.   Finally  the  project would
contribute to marine security in heavily trafficked areas.
RlISKtS:            The main project risk is the uncertainty regarding future
traffic levels and distribution between containerized
cargoes and Ro-Ro. To minimize this risk, the new container
terminal is designed to cope with both types of cargoes.
Moreover, close control will be maintained on the overall
port investment program through a process of anrr .' reviews.
There is also some risk that delays would be encountered in
the implementation of the institutional changes required in
terms of trade  facilitation  and  logistics.   Although
progress is now being made in improving documents and
procedures related to trade flows, trade facilitation and
logistics aspects will be closely monitored in the framework
of the next phase of trade reforms being undertaken by the
Government. It is not anticipated that slow implementation
of related measures would frustrate the needed container and
Ro-Ro investments proposed under the project. The risk of
a possible shortfall in budgetary allocations for the
program has been considerably reduced vith (i) the inclusion
in the project of the essential core of the sector
investment program, and (ii) the periodic reviews of the
public investment program under the project.  This risk
affects primarily the Government component of the project.



Estimated Costs: V
Local          Foreign         Total
--- US$ million -
Civil Works                              74.2            78.2           152.4
Equipment                                24.8            37.5            62.3
Training                                   1.0            1.1             2.1
Construction Supervision                  1.0             1.1             2.1
Studies                                   2.0             3.0 _Q50
Sub-total                  103.0          120.9           223.9
Physical Contingencies                    9.0             9.3            18.3
Price Contingencies                      19.0              .39.
Total Project Cost "       131.0           151.0          282.e
Financing Plan V
Local          Foreign         Total
---------_-- US$ million ----------
IBRD                                     21.1           110.9           132.0
Ongoing IBRD                                              4.4             4.4
Ongoing African Development Bank           -              5.9             5.9
ODEP                                     75.1            15.7 9          90.8
Government                               34.41                           489
Total                      131.0          151.0           282.0
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD FY         1991    1992    1993   124    1995    1996
Loan to the Kingdom of Morocco
Annual                           0.5     4.7    10.3    12.0      4.9      0.6
Cumulative                       0.5     5.2    15.5    27.5    32.4    33.0
Loan to ODEP
Annual                           1.6    25.1    25.3    29.6    14.2       3.2
Cumulative                       1.6    26.7    52.0    81.6    95.8    99.0
Economic Rate of Return
Overall Port Investment Program: About 25%
Container Terminal:                       19%
Tangier Ro-Ro Improvements:               50%
Coal Handling Facility:                   50X
1/ Identifiable taxes and duties amount to US$ 79 million. Total project costs,
net of taxes and duties, is about US$ 203 million equivalent.
Z/ Discussions have been initiated for a Japan Ex-Im Bank contribution of US$38
million.   Bilateral sources are also expected to contribute for about US$11
million.
2/ Mainly indirect foreign exchange on locally procured civil works.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Transport and the Economy
General
1.01      Over the past six years, Morocco has undertaken import..nt structural
reforms which have succeeded in achieving a modest growth rate with low
inflation.  In the recent past, the Moroccan economy has grown at an annual
average of about 3.3%, slightly more than the increase in population.   The
proposed medium-term adjustment program, which is being supported by the Bank,
seeks to reinvigorate the economy to achieve a growth rate of 4 to 5% per year.
This program is based on the implementation of several policy tools including
fiscal reform, trade liberalization, Public Enterprise reform, agricultural
sector deregulation, and an increase in the level and efficiency of public
investment expenditures (para. 1.06). In effect, while taking much of the brunt
of fiscal adjustment in the recent past, a continued reduced level in public
investment expenditures could constitute a major constraint to maintaining a
high level of economic growth in the future. The project is consistent with the
Bank's overall program for structural adjustment, and will provide support for
a key phase in the modernization of Morocco's ports aimed at removing
bottlenecks to export growth and facilitating continued growth in foreign trade.
Transport and the Economy
1.02      The Moroccan  transport  sector plays  an  important  role  in  the
development of the economy.   It provides direct support to industrial and
agricultural development, plays a key role in encouraging exports, and reducing
the cost of imports, -nd supports the growth of tourism. The land transport
system is well-developed and includes some 28,000 km of paved roads out of a
total network of some 58,000 km, and a railway network of about 1,800 km, of
which about 970 km are electrified, and 240 km are double-track.   There are
11 commercial ports, and about 20 airports handling scheduled flights.
1.03      Total interurban passengers and freight traffic are estimated at about
30 million passenger-kms and 15 billion ton-kms, of which about 93% and 70%
respectively are carried by road transport. Although road transport dominates
interurban passenger traffic, the share of the railway is much more important
in the main rail corridor between Marrakech, Casablanca, Rabat, and Kenitra with
its extension northward to Tangier, and eastward to Fes and Oujda (Map
IBRD 22288). These routes account for about one-third of interurban traffic,
with the railway handling about 25% of the total (33% for freight traffic other
than phosphates, and 20% for passenger traffic). As a whole, rail passenger
traffic increased at about 4% per year over the last decade, mainly as a result
of the introduction of improved passenger services, particularly the high-speed
trains between Casablanca and Rabat. During the same period road traffic also
increased at about 4% per year. About 3 billion ton-kms of rail traffic, or
65X of the total, represent captive phosphate traffic, which moves towards the



- 2 -
ports of Casablanca, Jorf Lasfar, and Safi for export. The port system, like
the railways, was also developed to serve phosphate exports, which have
stabilized in recent years at 14 million tons annually. Total port traffic in
1988 amounted to 38 million tons of which 18 million tons were minerals, mainly
exports of phosphates, and 10 milli,n tons were liquid bulk commodi.ies of which
crude oil accounted for 5 million tons. of the eleven commercial ports, four
ports - Casablanca, Jorf Lasfar, Safi and Mohammedia - handle about 90X of total
traffic (Map IBRD 22288). The main port of Casablanca handled 17 million tons
in 1988 including 10 million tons of minerals as well as imports and exports of
industrial goods totallir.g 3.5 million tons. About 30X of general cargo traffic
was containerized or handled as Roll-on Roll-off traffic. Further details on
the port subsector are given in Chapter II.
B. Transport Organization
1.04      The  Government  agencies  involved  in the  administration  of the
transport system are: (a) the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), which is
responsible for the construction and maintenance of roads and ports
infrastructure through its Road and Port Directorates; it also oversees cargo
handling and port operations which is the responsibility of the Office for Port
Operations (ODEP); (b) the Ministry of Transport (MOT), which regulates road
transport, and supervises the railways, civil aviation, the state-owned bus
company, and the state-owned freight forwarding agency; (c) the Ministry of
Fisheries and Merchant Marine which supervises shipping and marine security
trough its Merchant Marine Directorate; and (d) the Ministry of Interior as the
supervising body for local authorities, which are increasingly involved in the
planning and maintenance of local road networks.
1.05      Given the large number of agencies involved in the management of the
sector, there is sometimes an overlap of responsibilities between different
aZencies. In the ports subsector, both ODEP and the Ports Directorate (DP) of
MPW have responsibilities for planning port infrastructure and for overseeing
port operations. The project will help improve coordination in these matters
and will clarify the role of ODEP in overall port planning (para. 2.31).
Similarly, with increasing decentralization and the mobilization of resources
at the local authority level following the recent introduction of a value-added
tax, newly defined responsibilities are required between central and local
government. This has lead to a redefinition of responsibilities for the road
network between MNPW and local authorities, provision for which is included under
the  recent  Highway  Sector  Project  (FY90).    In  parallel  to  increasing
decentralization, there is also a move to introduce more autonomy for public
enterprises in the transport sector.  The financial restructuring of a number
of public enterprises and the implementation of contract plans clearly defining
the respective responsibilities of the Government and the enterprises, were part
of the Bank supported Public Enterprises Restructuring Loan (PERL). A proposed
PERL II will further strengthen the institutional framework for the management
of public enterprises.   The main elements of a Contract Plan to be agreed
between the Government and ODEP are included in an Action Plan prepared for the
purpose of facilitating project monitoring (para. 3.13 and Annex 1).



C. Transilort Investments
1.06      Table 1.1 shows transport sector public investments broken down into
road, rail, sea, and air transport modes, for the current 1988-92 Plan as well
as the two previous Plan periods. Total transport sector investments have been
relatively stable in real terms over the past decade amounting to about
DH 2.5 billion (US$300 million) annually in 1987 prices.   Generally, about
one-third of investments have been allocated to highways, one-third to ports and
shipping, and about one-fourth to railways. Although investment levels have
recently fallen due to budgetary constraints, overall expenditures in the sector
are likely to return to their former levels, in line with a need to provide the
necessary support to the adjustment process and renewed economic growth.
However, this increase in investment levels will be accompanied by a shift in
priorities with much greater emphasis being given to the highway sector, which
in turn will be compensated by a sharp decrease in expenditures on port
infrastructure, the latter being limited to a high priority modernization
program and to maintenance  and rehabilitation.    Since  1985,  Government
investments in port infrastructure have declined from around DH 450 million
(US$53 million) to a current level of around DH 150 million (US$18 million)
annually.   At the same time, and in line with the Government's policy to
increase the financial autonomy of its public enterprises, the transfer of
government funds to the railway sector has been limited annually to
DH 200 million (US$23 million) Fz'vce 1988. In all sectors, priority Is being
given to the completion of ongoing projects, and to the optimal utilization of
existing facilities. Under a Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), agreement
was reached with the Government on a target investment program in the public
sector for the period 1988-90.  Details of the proposed port investment program
during the period 1990-93, which is in line with agreement reached ui.der the
SAL, are given in Chapter III.



- 4 -
Table 1.1  Transport Sector Public Investments
A. Expenditures
(DH millior. at current prices)
Actual       Actual       ilanned
1973-19_LO    1981-1987    1988-1992
Road
Highways a                        1,781        4,133         6,526 1,
Local roads '                       700        1,300         3,660
Road transport f                    220          486           750
Subtotal            2,701         5,919       10,936
Rail
Infrastructure E                  1,344        2,350         2,044
Rolling Stock F                     620        1.634         2.115
Subtotal            1,964         3,984        4,159
Maritime
Ports
Infrastructure V               1,764         4,464           700
Equipment V                    _ 379         1.118         1.600
Subtotal            2,143         5,582        2,300
Shipping '                      1.211          450        2.180
Total               3,354         6,032        4,480
Air
Airports and navigation aids g    476             502        1,657
Air carrier RAM V                   666        1.581         22377
Subtotal            1,142         2,083        4,034
GRAND TOTAL         9.161        18.018       23,609
B. Allocations in oercentage
Actual       Actual       Planned
1973-1980    1981-1987    1988-1992
Road                                 29.5          32.8         46.3
Rail                                 21.4          22.1         17.6
Maritime                             36.6          33.5         19.0
Air                                   2.5                       17.1
100.0        100.0         100.0
I/   Sum of the initial Plan allocation (4,950) and of the Road Fund allocation
(1,576) created in December 1988.
2.! Central Government financing
i_   Local Government financing
A/   Public Enterprises financing
2/   Mixed financing
Source: Transport Sector Public Investment Review, World Bank, December 1987,
and mission estimates.



D. Sector Issues and Strategy
1.07      Bank dialogue with the Government on general sector issues and
recommendations to solve them, concentrate on the following:
(a) Improvement in the planning of investments and their coordination
among modes and across sectors;
(b) better use of existing facilities and services through trade
facilitation and logistics, improved management of public enterprises,
stepped-up deregulation, greater accountability of resources, and
decentralization of decisions;
(c)  gradual elimination of subsidies by the Government and cross-subsidies
among users through a more flexible tariff system, and correct pricing
of resources used; and
(d) increased budgetary allocations for the rehabilitation and waintenarnce
of infrab.tructure.
1.08      In recent years the Government has made substantial efforts to improve
planning and coordination of investments in the road subsector by submitting
maintenance and construction programs to prior economic analysis (Third and
Fourth Highway Projects). Further progress is now expected with the
clarification of the maintenance responsibilities between central and local
government and by building on the existing pavement management system under the
recent Highway Sector Project.   In parallel with these developments,  the
Government has also recently completed a road user charge study with the
objectives of imrroving equity in the recovery of road user costs and, through
the creation of a Road Fund, ensuring adequate resources for highway
rehabilitation and maintenance. Although much progress has been made in the
ports subsector, the planning functions within ODEP and DP need to be
strengthened and greater coordination is requ4.red in order to ensure that due
account is taken of operational considerations in planning infrastructure
investments (para. 2.31). The project will address this issue and will also
promote improved coordination with major ports users, particularly for bulk
imports of coal.
1.09      Some of the key issues at the present time relate to the need to
establish a planned program of investments in the main transport corridors as
well as to the need for greater liberalization in the road transport market.
In particular, the regulatory framework for the road transport industry needs
to be improved, in order to promote greater efficiency and to ensure freer
access to the market. These issues have recently been analyzed as part- of a
National Transport Master Plan Study, which was financed under the Fourth
Highway Project. On the basis of the study recommendations, an action plan for
road transport reform is being finalized in the context of the Highway Sector
Project and implementation would be followed up under the proposed SAL II.
Attention is also being given to improving intermodal linkages with a particular
emphasis on streamlining documentation and procedures related to the
handling/management of Morocco's foreign trade transactions (para. 2.10).
Assistance is currently being provided in this area through a UNDP Trade



-6-
Facilitation Project. Complementary analyses would be provided in the form of
a trade logistics study focusing on the movement of key export and import
cargoes (para. 2.11).
1.10      Overall, government policy towards public enterprises is changing
with the emphasis on reducing budget dependence, increasing managerial
efficiency, and transferring some of their operations to the private sector.
In effect, the Government is now realizing that excessive control and
interference in the management of the public enterprises, support for low
priority or premature investments, limitations on market entry and below-cost
tariffs have created distortions in the transport market, and excessive costs
to the economy.   In 1985, the Government took an initial step to reduce its
intervention on the road transport market by raising the limit of trucks under
route and freight assignment control by the Office National des Transports (ONT)
from 5.5 to 8 tons. Further progress is now contemplated with a gradual change
in ONT's role away from control of regulations towards freight forwarding and
the provision of information on the road transport market on an optional basis.
In the railway subsector, the Government intends establishing a Contract Plan
with  ONCF  defining respective  responsibilities  and  objectives.    Railway
restructuring is being followed under the Bank's Public Enterprise Restructuring
Loan (PERL) operations.  In the port subsector, in 1984, the monopoly of the
cargo handling company was abolished. A reorganization study was carried out
with Bank financing under the Ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia Project (Loan
2657-MOR) and has made recommendations for decentralization of port operations
and streamlining of ODEP's organization  (para.  2.20).   In addition,  the
preparation of a Contract Plan between ODEP and the Government is currently
underway and a draft Contract Plan, incorporating earlier Bank comments, was
reviewed during negotiations (para. 3.13).
E. Bank ExDperience in the TransDort Sector
1.11      The Bank has provided loans totalling US$337 million equivalent to
the Moroccan Government from 1969 to 1990 for tl,e construction, improvement, and
rehabilitation of main roads under five highway projects, and of rural feeder
roads under ten agricultural projects. The first port project became effective
in 1986 and provided a loan of US$22 million to improve institutions in the port
subsector and help maintain infrastructure in the ports of Casablanca and
Mohammedia (Loan 2657-MOR). Despite minor problems, the project is expected to
be completed in 1991.   Loan covenants are generally complied with.   Most
technical assistance and studies financed under the project have resulted in
significant improvements in port management and operational performance.
Rehabilitation of civil works in the port of Casablanca is underway with some
delays due to a slow procurement process. With those improvements, the port of
Casablanca has been able  to handle  increasing general  cargo  traffic at
reasonable cost and efficiency.   However,  wit}- the rapid development of
containerized and Ro-Ro traffic in recent years, it has now become vital to
develop new handling facilities and modern procedures to support exports and to
reduce costs of imported goods.
1.12      Although no railway operation has been financed by the Bank, ONCF was
included under the Public Enterprise Restructuring Loan (PERL). The highway
projects were designed to encourage investments with high returns to the



economy, particularly maintenance and rehabilitation, and to help build ulu the
staffing and organization of the agencies responsible for road construction and
maintenance, and for transport coordination. The rural roads projects have met
specific needs as part of agricultural development packages, and were designed
as transport and agriculture integrated investments.  The recently approved
Highway Sector Project provides support for a priority program of road
rehabilitation and maintenance, the strengthening of road maintenance planning
in order to make best use of scarce resources, and the implementation of a
sector wide action plan dealing with the regulatory framework for road
transport, including road safety matters. The Project Performance Audit Reports
for the First, Second, and Third Highway Projects, respectively Loan 642-MOR,
Credit 167-MOR, Loan 955-MOR, and Loan 1830-MOR, which were designed to improve
traffic conditions, highway maintenance, and transport planning outline their
successful implementation, with rates of return above appraisal estimates
despite cost overruns. Loan covenants have been generally complied with, but
progress expected on transport planning did not materialize to the extent
desirable, in particular because of split responsibilities and limited
cooperation between MOT and MPW. Disbursement lagged considerably behind the
physic:l implementation of the projects because of shortages of local funds.
The situation has started to improve following implementation of the SAL, which
addressed the budget execution issue at the country level.
II. THE PORT AND MARITIME SUBSECTORS
A. Port Facilities and Traffic
Port Facilities
2.01      Morocco's port infrastructure has been rapidly expanded to cope with
increasing demands on maritime transport and maritime activities. Until 1961
Morocco had only nine ports. It has now a total of 20 ports along its coast
line of 3,500 km. There are 11 commercial ports forming three main groups: a
northern group comprising Tangier and Nador; a central group comprising Kenitra,
Mohammedia, Casablanca, and Jorf Lasfar; and a southern group comprising Safi,
Agadir, Tan-Tan, Laayoune, and Dakhla (Map IBRD 22288). Agadir, Nador, and the
main port,  Casablanca,  are well  diversified.    Some ports  are  somewhat
specialized: petroleum products are handled essentially at Mohammedia, phosphate
products at Jorf Lasfar and Safi, and passenger traffic at Tangier. Commercial
ports also provide facilities for the Navy. In addition, there are nine small
ports devoted to fishing activities and pleasure navigation. These ports are:
Ras Kabdana, Al Hoceima, Jebha, M'Diq, Larache, El Jadida, Essaouira, Tarfaya,
and Sidi Ifni.   Recently,  four ports have been developed exclusively for
pleasure navigation. These ports are: Asilah, Restinga, Smir, and Sables d'Or.
2.02      The 11 commercial ports have a total of 150 berths with an overall
length of about 21,500 meters and an average length per berth of 150 meters
(Table 1). All ports use either mobile or fixed cranes (about 160) for vertical
lifting of general cargo. Specialized equipment is available for solid bulk
commodities, such as minerals and cereals (nine gantry cranes). Miscellaneous



- 8 -
cargo handling equipment comprises 548 tractors and forklifts, 70 loaders
including portable belt loaders, 30 grain loaders, and 29 units of container
handling equipment.
2.03      Whereas requirements for port expansion are expected to be minimal
during the period 1991-1993, adaptation of existing port facilities to modern
handling techniques is urgently needed. In effect, the major program of port
infrastructure investments pursued by the Government in recent years has
resulted in the provision of adequate general infrastructure.   However, the
rapid growth of container and roll-on roll-off traffic has increased the
pressure on conventional berths that lack sufficient yard space and adequate
access to handle containers and trucks. The situation is particularly critical
at the container terminal of the port of Casablanca where congestion places a
considerable strain on handling equipment.  Similarly, congestion occurs at
Tangier during the summer months when a steady flow of trucks conflicts with the
peak period of passenger traffic.   As a result, ferries call at the Ro-Ro
platforms, thus delaying Ro-Ro ships. Moroccan ports are also ill-equipped to
handle and store large volumes of grain, despite a steady volume of cereals
imports. In addition, a planned thermal power plant at Jorf-Lasfar will require
the upgrading of an existing berth to handle large coal carriers.   These
limitations, if not corrected, would increase the cost of foreign trade and, as
such, there is considerable scope for substantial savings in foreign exchange
through appropriate investments in upgrading and modernizing port facilities.
2.04      The port sector investment program for the period 1991-1993, to be
supported by the project, will address the immediate problems of container,
roll-on roll-off (including ferries), and coal handling facilities.   Grain
storage facilities are to be provided at Agadir through the Cereals Board
(ONICL), the enterprise which currently handles all grain traffic. A study of
future improvements of grain storage and handling facilities will be part of the
updating of the National Port Master Plan to be supported by the project
(para. 2.31).
Traffic
2.05      Total Moroccani import-export port traffic was 36 million tons in 1988,
of which 15 million tons (42%) were imported and 21 million tons (58%) were
exported. This total traffic volume includes about 24 million tons of solid
bulk cargo, 7 million tons of liquid bulk products, and 5 million tons of
general cargo (Table 2). Four major ports handle 86% of the total import/export
traffic. These are: Casablanca (42% of total traffic), Mohammedia (12%), Safi
(15%), and Jorf-Lasfar (17%).    While total port traffic has increased by just
over 5% per annum during the period 1983-1987, it increased by 13% in 1988
mainly as a result of a jump in export traffic.   Imports increased fairly
steadily at a rate of 6 to 7% per annum over the period 1983-88, whereas exports
increased at a lower rate of just over 4% per annum. The growth of unitized
traffic is quite significant. Unitized traffic has increased by 6 to 7% per
annum since the early 1980s.   In 1988, container traffic at the port of
Casablanca passed the 1 million tons mark--a 14% increase over 1987--while Ro-
Ro traffic reached 454,000 tons--a 35% increase over 1987 traffic figures. The
port of Tangier, which is second to Casablanca for unitized cargoes handled only



- 9 -
41,000 tons of container traffic in 1988. TIR I traffic at Tangier, however,
peaked at 370,330 tons in 1988, an increase of 40% over the previous year. On
the other hand, cereals imports have remained steady at about 2 million tons per
annum on average. Coal imports amount to 1 million tons, mostly through the
port of Casablanca.   Phosphate and mineral traffic has recently increased,
reaching 19 million tons in 1988, a 14% increase over 1987. While the port of
Casablanca's share in this traffic still exceeds 50%, the port of Jorf Lasfar
is rapidly catching up due to its specialization in bulk traffic; it handled 3.7
million tons in 1988, a 295% increase over 1987, thus exceeding the 3.1 million
tons handled through the port of Safi.
2.06      While future traffic growth is expected to be moderate,  traffic
distribution among ports and handling techniques will change. The development
of the new port of Jorf Lasfar has already altered the distribution pattern of
phosphate related traffic. A portion of this traffic is gradually shifting from
Casablanca and Safi to Jorf Lasfar. Grain traffic distribution will also change
as a result of the construction of new storage facilities.   General cargo
volumes are expected to increase at about 3% per annum in average over the next
decade.   Unitized traffic growth, however,  is expected to be higher.   The
provision of adequate facilities in the ports of Casablanca and Tangier would
allow unitized traffic to increase in these ports at a rate of 5% per annum and
7% per annum respectively.  Barring these improvements, unitized traffic would
increase at a lower rate, thus inducing increased transport costs.   Further
details of traffic patterns and forecasts of traffic are given in Chapter IV.
B. Maritime Transport and Shiggins
2.07      Maritime transport accounts for 98% of Morocco's volume of foreign
trade. Trade with Europe dominates, reaching about 50% of total foreign trade.
The trade pattern of bulk traffic is quite contrasted.  Whereas 70% of coal
traffic originates from Colombia, about 75% of phosphate traffic goes to Europe.
Most grain cargoes originate from USA and France. The origin and destination
of Moroccan general cargo traffic is mostly Europe (66%) and North America
(27%). Traffic with Europe is split between the Atlantic area (70%) and the
Mediterranean area (30%).
2.08      Maritime shipping is largely based on two major public shipping
companies in Morocco: COMANAV and MARPHOCEAN. COMANAV operates 20 liner vessels
of less than 8,000 dwt, of which it owns 15. These consist of seven container
vessels, two Ro-Ro vessels, four fruit carriers, and two ferries. MARPHOCEAN,
a joint venture of COMANAV, the Moroccan Phosphate Office (OCP) and GAZOCEAN,
operates 15 phosphate rock ships and chemical products carriers. Two public
companies are specialized in the maritime transport of petroleum products
(Petrocab) and citrus (Sofruma).   There are also several Moroccan private
shipping lines: Gen6rale Maritime, Navimar, Cogimade, Cotrama, UMM, Atlas
Navigation, Conade, Comarit, and Limadet.   These lines operate on specific
trades, such as citrus products and ferries.   Altogether, Moroccan shipping
lines control about 20% of the total volume (33% of the total value) of Moroccan
freight and about 50% of general cargo traffic. A number of foreign shipping
I/ TIR: International Road Transport (Transport International Routier)



- 10 -
lines are quite active in liner shipping in Morocco. Major ones are: O.P.D.R.
(Federal Republic of Germany), CGM and Chargeurs Delmas (France), and S.I.U.S.
(Italy).  Accordingly, there is some degree of competition in general cargo
trade. The provision of a modern container terminal, to be financed under the
project, will further stimulate competition by allowing a wider range of vessels
to call at the port of Casablanca.
2.09      Maritime shipping is under the control of the Ministry of Fisheries
and Merchant Marine acting through the Merchant Marine Directorate (DMM).
Although DMM promotes local shipping lines through cargo sharing schemes, it has
also promoted development of joint ventures with foreign partners. As a result,
liner shipping and container services are relatively diversified and offer
frequent calls by small vessels.   The Moroccan merchant fleet includes 63
vessels with a total dead weight tonnage (DWT) of about 540,000.   Moroccan
shipowners will need prudent modernization and adaptation of their fleet,
primarily through leasing arrangements, to keep it competitive in the changing
environment of Europe and Maghreb.
C. Trade Facilitation and Logistics
2.10      The efficiency of shipping and port services in meeting demands of
trade and industry depends on the facilitation of information flows.   In
particular, the conduct of customs clearance services and harmonized
documentation are critical elements of trade facilitation. In Morocco, there
is an urgent need to simplify, rationalize, and standardize essential documents
are procedures involved in the transit of cargoes through the ports. Although
the transit time of import cargoes through the port of Casablanca has been
reduced, it is still more than 15 days. To correct this, the Government has
established a National Commission for Simplification of Foreign Trade Procedures
(SIPROMAR) under the adjustment program supported by the Bank's Second
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPA II).  Until recently, the
objectives of SIPROMAR were far from being met. This should now change. In
November 1989, a Customs expert was finally appointed to work full time for
SIPROMAR.   His activities will focus on four areas: (a) preparing a unified
Customs declaration aligned with the UN layout key; (b) preparing a nationally
aligned series of international trade documents; (c) recommending specific
measures to reduce dwell times in the ports, particularly for containers at
Casablanca; and (d) promoting the adoption of international standards for data
elements and interchange, based on UN-ISO norms in general, and EDIFACT in
particular. A draft initial customs document has already been prepared for
review by all members of SIPROMAR. In addition, a study of the efficiency of
current customs inspection practices has just been initiated, which would also
seek to identify, with the Customs Cooperation Council, alternative modern and
efficient  customs  inspection procedures.    Issues  raised by  the  customs
inspection study are cross-sectorial in nature and thus would be addressed as
part of the next phase of trade reform being undertaken by the Government. The
Facilitation Project will monitor progress in applying procedural and
documentary reforms, particularly through appropriate port performance
indicators (para. 3.37), some of which are included in ODEP's Development
Program for the project (para. 3.12).



- 11 -
2.11      Improving information flows is but one vital element in the rapidly
changing international tradirg environment. In addition, there is an increasing
need to address other elements of trade logistics management. The efficiency
of the whole logistic chain is important to the competitive position of
Morocco's exports and to the domestic price of imports. The Government plans
to undertake a trade logistic study which would analyze costs and identify
existing constraints affecting Moroccan foreign trade logistics.   The study
would be coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Trade.   During project
preparation, the Bank assisted in preparing terms of reference for the study.
The investigations would cover typical logistics chains affecting Ro-Ro traffic,
perishable goods and import and export of containerized goods. The main focus
of the logistics study would be on the provision of shipping and
freight-forwarder  services.    This  would ensure  complementarity  with  the
activities and studies which have already begun under the Facilitation Project
and the Highway Sector Project. The Government has confirmed its intention to
launch the study under these terms of reference. The study would assist in
defining appropriate measures to be implemented under future trade reforms.
D. Port Organization
2.12      In December 1984, the Government carried out a reorganization of the
port sector. The prominent feature of the new organization was to transfer all
commercial port activities from the civil service to an autonomous enterprise.
However, MPN retained overall responsibility for port administration, planning,
construction, maintenance, dredging as well as safety of port operations. Since
1985, MPW discharges its responsibilities through the Ports Directorate (DP) in
Rabat and the Office for Port Operations (ODEP). DP is under the civil service.
DP is in charge of port planning and port policies.   It also oversees port
investment programs, coordinates non-commercial port activities, and regulates
port operations (para. 2.14). ODEP is a financially autonomous enterprise with
an industrial and commercial character which took over cargo handling from the
former R6gie d'Acconage du Port de Casablanca (RAPC).   Its responsibilities
encompass a wide spectrum of port operations, especially cargo handling, and
maintenance (para. 2.18). A Technical Committee of each port, chaired by the
local port representative of the MPW is consulted on all matters connected with
port operations and maintenance. Representatives of local administrations and
users participate in the Technical Committees.
2.13      So far, the new sector organization has substantially achieved its
objectives. These were: (a) to raise port efficiency; (b) to reduce subsidies;
and  (c) to restore the financial viability of the sector.   First, most
performance indicators for port operations are markedly better than before 1985
(para. 2.23).   Second, although the Government still finances dredging and
breakwater maintenance, maintenance of port facilities has improved without
increasing the financial burden on the budget (para. 5.11). However, current
plans foresee that ODEP will be responsible in the future for the construction
and maintenance of port infrastructure, except for breakwaters and jetties which
will remain the responsibility of the Government, along with maintenance
dredging.   Transfer of fixed assets (except breakwaters, jetties and other
infrastructure belonging to public property) to ODEP will take place before
December 31, 1991. These provisions are included in ODEP's Development Program
(para. 3.12) and are to be reflected in the Contract Plan (para. 3.13).



- 12 -
Finally, ODEP's financial performance is satisfactory (para. 5.01).   As a
result, ODEP is able to finance the construction of the new container terminal
with no Government funding. The division of responsibility between DP and ODEP
is further detailed in the following paragraphs, and in Table 3. The role of
the private sector is discussed in para. 2.21.
Ports Directorate
2.14.     The Ports Directorate (DP) is in charge of maintenance of breakwaters,
dredging, and all harbor master functions: control and safety of ship movements,
berth allocation, coordination of users toward maximizing port productivity,
goods security,  and leasing of port facilities to users.   DP also plans
investments in new port infrastructure, m-stly breakwaters and quays.   DP
carries its maintenance responsibilities either with its own staff, or through
contracting out , e.g. for dredging. DP discharges its activities through local
representatives of MPW at the port level. However, at Casablanca, the local
representative of MPW is a directorate, the Casablanca and Mohammedia Port
Directorate (DPCM{). This special status is warranted by the size and importance
of the port of Casablanca and the proximity of the specialized oil port of
Mohammedia (para. 2.17).
2.15.     DP's current organization is shown on Chart No. 1.   DP has four
departments: operations, engineering, studies and planning, and lighthouses and
beacons. While DP staff is of good quality, it should play a more active role
in setting port development priorities, coordinating port planning and
controlling environmental impacts. The project will help strengthen DP in this
regard through the updating of the National Ports Plan (para. 2.31) and an
environmental study (para. 3.40).
2.16.     The  local  representatives  of MPW  and DPCM have  the  following
responsibilities: security of ships and goods movements, maintenance of the
breakwaters and control towers, and dredging.  They also have a supervisory role
over the other entities licensed to operate in ths ports areas, in particular:
(a) ODEP; (b) the towage companies; (c) the pilots stations; (d) the grain silo
operator, ONICL, which l-ases areas for its facilities; (e) OCP, the phosphate
exporting enterprise, operating berths or piers which are leased on a long-term
basis; and (f) the customs office which operates under the control of the
Ministry of Finance.
2.17.     The current organization of DPCM is shown on Chart No. 2.  DPCM has
four Departments: administrative services, engineering, Casablanca port
operations, and Mohammedia port operations. Overall, its staffing is adequate
and of good quality. The ongoing port project provides support to training and
technical assistance of DPCM staff in port operations and port safety. This has
helped strengthen the department of port operations in the areas of supervision
of cargo handling and port safety.   Fellowships and training to be provided
under the project will help raise the awareness and skills of DPCM staff in the
area of environmental protection.



- 13 -
ODEP
2.18      ODEP's principal functions are:
(a) to operate the following 11 commercial ports: Casablanca and
Mohammedia, Agadir, Dakhla, Jorf Lasfar, Kenitra, LaAyoune, Nador,
Safi, Tangier, and Tan-Tan;
(b) to handle cargo without exercising a monopoly; concessionary
arrangements with other entities including private operators can be
made by the Government;
(c) to maintain all port infrastructure except for: breakwaters and
dredging which is done by the Ports Directorate; and other
infrastructure operated by specialized users such as the phosphates
operator, OCP, and the grain silo operator, ONICL;
(d) to collect revenues from cargo-handling tariffs as well as the port
dues; and
(e) to undertake, at Government's request, and for its account:
(i) construction of new port infrastructure with proven financial
viability, such as the oil berths at Mohammedia and the future
container terminal at Casablanca; (ii) maintenance and repair of port
facilities in the ports of Al Hoceima, El-Jadida and Essaouira; and
(iii) maintenance and repair of lighthouses and beacons in ports
operated by ODEP.
2.19      ODEP is managed by a Board of Directors with a strong ministerial
representation. The Board, chaired by the Minister of Public Works, on behalf
of the Prime Minister, includes representatives from nine other ministries,
customs, DP, and DPCM. Users, such as ship operators, freight forwarders and
prominent shippers, are also represented by six directors having the right to
vote. The Board meets twice a year; between sessions, authority is delegated
to the Management Committee, which meets once a month, and to the General
Manager of ODEP, who is appointed by the Government. The Management Committee
is chaired by the Secretary General of MPW. It includes representatives of the
Ministries of Finance, Interior, Merchant Marine, Commerce, and Industry.
2.20      ODEP's present organization is generally very satisfactory, and no
major changes are required. ODEP was reorganized in October 1987 following a
reorganization study which was financed under the Ports of Casablanca and
Mohammedia Project. ODEP has offices and personnel on duty in each of the ports
where it operates, but its headquarters are located at Casablanca. Decisions
on policy  matters  including planning,  pricing,  personnel management  and
procurement, and supervision of both finances and operations are carried out
from headquarters.  Local Port Operations Directorates (DEPs) are responsible
for the day-to-day planning and execution of port operations.  The result is a
clear delineation of responsibilities.  Chart No. 3 shows the organization of
ODEP's headquarters.   Chart No. 4 shows the organization of the DEP of
Casablanca. Further details on ODEP's organization, staffing and training are
given in Anmex 2.



- 14 -
2.21      An area for future action is the role of the private sector. Although
there is no de lure monopoly limiting private sector participation in port
activities,  such participation remains modest.   Only a few activities are
performed by private companies: pilotage and towage at Casablanca and Jorf
Lasfar; line handling at Safi; stevedoring on board the ships at Casablanca,
Agadir, Tangier, Safi, and Nador; and cargo handling and warehousing at Kenitra.
Although the Government is willing to increase private sector participation in
port activities, previous attempts to do so have met with little success. On
the contrary, users have asked ODEP to take over from the private sector in a
few instances, such as cargo handling at Kenitra. This is because the users
see the positive results of ODEP's efforts to modernize port equipment and
maintain port facilities.   On the other hand, private port operators are of
small size. Accordingly, they contribute only marginally to port investment.
2.22      In fact, the case for privatization is relatively weak as long as ODEP
remains efficiently managed and financially sound. Still, a few positive steps
could be taken to foster participation of dynamic and efficient private
companies in port operations. First, ODEP should concentrate its investments
in activities that fit in with its mandate, thus refraining from excessive
diversification. Second, the Government and ODEP should aim at progressively
eliminating price distortions, direct subsidies, and cross-subsidization among
ports and between activities.  Finally, the Government should identify which
activities could most benefit from an increased participation of the private
sector. For these activities, the Government and ODEP should define performance
targets and investment criteria for private companies to avoid granting special
privileges. While no specific action plan regarding privatization is deemed
necessary at this stage, the situation will be revisited periodically during
project implementation in the light of ODEP's actual performance.
E.  Port Operations and Naintenance
port Operations
2.23      Port operations have substantially improved over the past five years,
but there remains a need to hasten cargo documentation and clearance procedures
(paras 2.10 and 2.25).   Technical assistance financed under the Ports of
Casablanca and Mohammedia Project helped streamline general cargo and container
terminal operations. Although divided responsibilities between cargo handling
on board the ship and on shore still prevail, better coordination of port
operators has contributed to increasing productivity.   There are several
instances of significant improvements: in 1988, palletized fruits and vegetables
reached 152 metric tons per gang per shift of eight hours; packaged woods
reached 154 metric tons per gang per shift; steel products reached 572 metric
tons per gang per shift. Overall, the average productivity per gang per shift
has increased by 44.5% at Casablanca over 1984 figures.  Similarly, average
productivity gains at other ports over the period 1984-1988 range from 12% at
Safi to 40% at Nador. Table 4 give more details on productivity figures.
2.24      On the other hand, handling of containers and grain still needs
improvement. Container handling productivity reaches 14 boxes per hour per ship
for imports and 9 boxes per hour per ship for exports.   ODEP is currently



- 15 -
renewing its run-down fleet of yard equipment and one ship-to-shore container
gantry crane has also been ordered. While provision of modern and reliable
equipment is likely to boost productivity, it will not cure the problems
resulting from the scarcity and inadequacy of storage areas. The construction
of a modern container terminal at Casablanca, to be financed under the project,
will provide adequate facilities to cope with the growing flow of containers.
Productivity figures for grain handling range from 254 to 320 metric tons per
gang per shift. Productivity would be four to five times higher with modern
handling equipment and adequate storage facilities. ONICL plans to erect a silo
and modern grain handling equipment at Agadir, with bilateral financing. The
new facilities would be put in operation in 1993.  A previous plan to erect
similar facility at Tangier has been shelved because ONICL sees a decreasing
need for cereals imports through Tangier.
2.25      Provision of modern equipment and construction of a new container
terminal will not suffice to bring container operations up to European s£ondards
of performance. Simplification of Customs documents and procedures re,ires a
parallel effort in the port itself. ODEP plans to use the ongoing Port Project
to finance a Port Expert to assist SIPROMAR in its work, particularly as far as
port information systems and procedures are concerned.   ODEP also plans to
appoint a short-term computer expert. The computer expert's task would be to
help ODEP commission the SIPOR project (computerized management information
system) and to integrate the data elements requirements of EDIFACT norms in the
ongoing  computerization process.    This would  eventually  facilitate  data
interchange between Customs, ODEP, and port users. At negotiations, assurances
were obtained that ODEP would, as part of its Development Program (para. 3.12):
(a) complete a study of the incidence and causes of delays in the transit of
containers through the port of Casablanca by Maroh 31, 1991; (b) simplify trade
procedures and do_umentation related to its activities by October 31, 1991; and
(c) take measures to ensure that its computerized information system (SIPOR)
interface effectively with the computer systems of the Moroccan customs
authorities (SADOC) by the end of 1991 and with port users' computerized systems
by the end of 1992.
2.26      Additional gains in port productivity are also possible through
institutional improvements and training. First, the construction of a modern
container terminal provides a uniqui opportunity to establish a single operator
for its operations. In addition to being responsible for all container handling
operations on the container berth and in its stacking area, the single operator
would be responsible for the provision and maintenance of the needed mobile
container handling equipment. Second, actual performance indicators for ca.go
handling productivity should be compared to targets in addition to being
compared to previous achievements. ODEP has established a comprehensive set of
performance indicators which serve to monitor progress. A further step would
be to monitor gaps between current achievements and targets. The targets would
be established, and periodically revised, after review of similar operations in
the most performing ports. Third, there is a need to update and develop port
regulations in parallel with the ongoing modernization of port facilities.
Finally, ODEP's efforts to train port staff should be intensified.   ODEP's
Development Program includes measures to monitor operations against defined
targets and to prepare the future organization of the new cortainer terminal



- 16 -
(para. 3.12). In addition, the project would finance technical assi&xance and
training to address these needs.
For  Mintenance
2.27      While port infrastructure maintenance is generally satisfactory, there
is currently a backlog of breakwater rehabilitation and dredging. In the past,
infrastructure maintenance was neglected, particularly in the port of
Casablanca. Since January 1985, ODEP has been responsible for maintenance of
port infrastructure, except -or breakwaters and dredging.  ODEP is currently
implementing a comprehensive program of rehabilitation of port infrastructure.
This includes roads, storage areas, water supply, transit sheds, drainage, and
electrical systems. Funding for this program comes from ODEP's own resources
and Bank financing under the ongoing Port Project. However, more needs to be
done to rehabilitate breakwaters and to cope with the dredging requirements in
continuation of the programs currently supported by the African Development Bank
(AfDB) and the Bank.   The project will include a component to that effect
(para. 3.09). Dredging and equipment maintenance are further discussed in the
following paragraphs.
2.28      Dredging work is particularly critical for continued access to the
ports by the larger vessels.   The existing backlog of needed dredging has
resulted from deferred maintenance dredging in several ports. It is estimated
that annual maintenance dredging will amount to k.5 million me by 1992. DRAPOR,
a wholly-owned subsidiary of ODEP, carries out dredging in all ports on behalf
of the Government. While DRAPOR charges less than private companies, it cannot
renew its equipment from its own resources. In fact, the Government provides
most of the equipment used since it can obtain better financial conditions for
its acquisi.-ion. Overall, DRAPOR's equipment is adequate. No major acquisition
is required, at least in the near term. However, there has been little effort
to determine the true cost of dredging and to pass these costs on to the users
and beneficiaries. DRAPOR organizes dredging operations in a distorted cost
framework, thus resorting to a low number of working hours for the dredges.
Hence, there is a need for optimizing the operation and deployment of DRAPOR's
fleet, and determining the cost of maintenance dredging. At negotiations, it
was agreed that ODEP woule carry out a study to strengthen the maintenance
dredging operations and furnish its results to the Bank for review and comments
by December 31, 1991.  Thereafter, ODEP would implement the recommendations
based on this study as agraed with the Bank.
2.29      Mainten. rce of cargo handling equipment is adequately carried out by
ODE2's workshops, supported by private companies. Qualified staff and effective
use of computers have contributed to improving the quality and efficiency of
equipment maintenanee. Equipment demand availability ratios range from 94X for
forklift trucks tn 99.6% for cranes at Casablanca, which is satisfactory.
Still, OEP w-nts to further rationalize equipment management and maintenance.
This is no     given .he size of the fleet and the importance of its efficient
deploymen      To this effect,  ODEP is currently developing a maintenance
management program including organization, performance indicators and targets,
strategy and policies, and maintenance procedures. ODEP also strives to renew
its equipment in a timely fashion. The project will assist ODEP in optimizing
and financing its equipment investment plan.



- 17 -
2.30      The Loan Agreement for the ongoing Port Project (Loan 2657-MOR) calls
for ODEP to prepare a report for Bank review at the end of each calendar year
on maintenance works carried out during the year and their costs, as well as
works scheduled for each of the following calendar year.   Although this
requirement has been only partially fulfilled, maintenance management has
gradually  improved.    Further progress  on maintenance management will be
monitored under the project through the normal supervision mechanism.
P.  Port Plannina and Investment Program
Port Planning
2.31      Port planning needs to be strengthened and better coordinated.  The
recent port reorganization has weakened the port sector's capability to prepare
a coherent and comprehensive ports development plan. The principal reason for
this is the insufficient coordination among the agencies which are responsible
for different parts of the planning process. Theoretically, DP is ultimately
responsible for coordinating overall port investment planning.  In practice,
however, DP tends to focus on basic infrastructure needs and long-term plans
with little operational analysis. In 1983, DP completed a 20-year National Port
Master Plan (PDPN) to define port investment needs.  The PDPN was partially
updated in 1985 and 1987. On the other hand, ODEP prepares five-year rolling
detailed port investment plans focusing on programs of immediate practical
improvements for the use of existing facilities.   ODEP's plans make little
reference, if any, to the PDPN. Moreover, ODEP is not yet equipped with the
specialized skills required for detailed port planning. As a result, medium-
term planning of specific projects is being neglected. There is a need for a
total planning approach by which all planning activities --rehabilitation, master
planning  and  port  operations  and  management  review--are  carried  out
concurrently, with the objective of achieving the full potential of the existing
ports before resorting to the addition of new berths and related facilities.
To improve the planning process, the project includes a study to update the PDPN
giving special emphasis to its linkages with medium-term plans and operational
analysis at the level of each port.   While the study will be under the
responsibility of DP, close cooperation with ODEP will be required. Training
would also be provided to ODEP staff to strengthen ODEP's port planning
capability.
Investment Program
2.32      Since the creation of ODEP in 1985, its investments have varied from
DH 300 million (US$35 million) to over DH 400 million (US$47 million) annually,
with the main focus on modernization of facilities and the rehabilitation of
storage areas and warehouses.   During the same period, investments in port
infrastructure have ranged from around DH 450 million (US$53 million) to over
DH 600 million (US$71 million) annually. This high level of investment in basic
infrastructure was accounted for by the completion of the new port of Jorf
Lasfar in 1985 and by the construction of new berth facilities at Agadir during
the period 1984-1988. However, the Agadir port extension was financed through
extra-budgetary sources amounting to about DH 850 million (US$ 100 million)
during the period 1985-1988. As such, port infrastructure investments financed



- 18 -
under the general budget averaged about DH 250 million (US$29 million) annually
during the period 1985-1988.   This level of investment is now expected to
decrease substantially and will be limited overall to about DH 190 million (US$23
million) through the end of the current 1988-1992 Plan. Similarly, expenditures
by ODEP are unlikely to exceed DH 450 million (US$55 million) annually during
the same period, a level which would be in line with expected revenues,
requirements for debt servicing, revaluation of the maintenance fee (para. 2.45)
and the limits placed on future tariff increases. As a whole, this program
reflects the current emphasis given to the modernization of the port s^-tor and
to the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure. The overall
port investment program for the period 1990-1993 is discussed in Chapter III and
further details are given in Annex 3.
G. Accounting and Auditing
Ports Directorate
2.33      DP keeps separate accounts which follow the Government system of
budget accounting. In the general budget, the accounts are broken down into
chapters and articles for recurrent expenditures, and lines and subsections for
capital expenditures with no organic link between revenues and expenses. The
budget is approved by the parliament and its execution is closely controlled.
DP keeps two separate accounts for commitments and for payments, which at end
of year show similar amounts, because outstanding commitments and related credits
are cancelled in accordance with Gvernment practice. Only unused credits for
capftal expenditures can be carried over with the approval of the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). Accounting for the payroll is kept at ministerial level.
2.34      The Director of DP can commit funds within a DH 30,000 limit; above
this limit the Financial Controller's clearance is required. Funds are w'thdrawn
based on applications submitted by the director and disbursed by the Treasurer's
representatives.   The Ministry of Finance and the Cours des Comptes are
responsible for auditing these accounts. While this system is commonly used in
public accounting, it does not produce appropriate information for assets
management.  Data are recorded on a monthly basis at their historical value
without reference to total cost and without application of any depreciation.
ODEP
2.35      ODEP follows accounting rules applicable to all public enterprises in
Morocco. A new national accounting chart has been published but it has not been
yet approved by parliament.   The current system is decentralized and fully
computerized in all DEPs. The accounting system is kept in line with current
rules derived from the French chart of accounts, dated 1957. It includes two
sub-systems, manager's and budget accounts, kept at the port level and
consolidated at ODEP's financial department. The accounting system has improved
over the last years, but still shows weaknesses in analytical potential, cost
accounting and budgeting, which will be addressed by ODEP's financial department
assisted by consultants as appropriate. Further improvement will result from
the implementation of the computerized management system SIPOR. A subcomponent
of SIPOR, the COFI project, which deals with accounting consolidation and
integration of sub-systems, is expected to be fully implemented within two years.



- 19 -
2.36      The  methodology  for  revaluation  of  government  financed  assets
transferred te ODEP Las been reviewed with the Bank and is satisfactory. The
Government financed assets to be carried in ODEP books will show depreciation
and additions. Assets remaining with the Government, revalued from time to time
as appropriate, will serve as a basis to calculate the fee that ODEP will pay
to the Government for their use (para. 2.45).
2.37      The current budget follows a standard classification by chapter,
article and paragraph.   The capital budget lists expenses by article and
paragraphs which are integrated in a rolling five-year plan. Draft budgets are
prepared by each port manager and reviewed at Headquarters, based on the general
corporate strategy and governmental guidance regarding port policy and overall
economic development.   The draft consolidated budget  is reviewed by the
Management Committee (para. 2.19). The final budget is submitted annually to
ODEP's Board for approval.
2.38      The General Manager has extensive power to execute the budget and
commit funds, sutject to the clearance by the Financial Controller for
expenditures  above  DH  100,000  (US$12,000).    The  Financial  Controller  is
permanently assigned to ODEP by the Ministry of Finance to ensure that government
legislation is fully enforced, especially concerning bidding and salary policies;
the Financial Controller also has authority to reallocate funds between articles,
whereas their allocation between chapters must be authorized at ministerial
level. The principle of a priori control is very constraining in accomplishing
day to day management, while a posteriori control based on an approved budget
execution would be more efficient. The intervention of the Financial Controller
at each step of the management process makes the day to day financial management
very cumbersome and constitutes a major bottleneck in ODEP's management. Aware
of this situation, the Government and its public enterprises are increasingly
using contract plans as a vehicle to improve the control procedures. The new
principle will involve a posteriori control based on budget execution and review
of expense limits requiring clearance of the Financial Controller. Consequently,
budget preparation must be rationalized to ensure that authorized spending is
fully justified economically and financially. Technical assistance under the
project will provide additional expertise to strengthen and streamline budgeting
system implemented recently under the first project, to set an internal audit
function (para. 2.39) recommended by the organizational study, and to ensure that
investment spending is financially justified.
2.39      The internal audit department at managerial level has not yet been
established due to difficulties in hiring appropriate high level staff. The
internal audit unit currently in charge of auditing accounting systems and
related procedures is attached to the financial department. Its main objectives
are to ascertain consistency and accuracy of financial data provided and
financial statements presented to ODEP management. Internal audit is oriented
towards control of financial data and procedures at DEP level, including billing
and collections of port dues, operating expenses, capital expenditures, payroll
and wages and liquidity management.   ODEP's management plans to set up an
internal audit department and to hire appropriate high level staff by the end
of FY91. The internal audit department will be attached to ODEP General Manager
and will focus on: (a) implementation and updating of the oveiall organization



- 20 -
principles, str,. ture and procedures; (b) budget execution; (c) human resources
management; ar  (d) control of overall financial equilibrium at ODEP's level.
These activities will be monitored during project implementation.
2.40      Each pox,: produces monthly financial statements showing management
accounts and budget execution. The accounts are consolidated at the end of each
year and submitted to the board for approval. ODEP accounts have been audited
by an independent local auditor since its creation in 1985. The first two audits
were limited to identifying deficiencies in the accounting systems and
procedures. ODEP's management has succeeded in solving some of the deficiencies
identified by its auditors. Despite ODEP's commitment and improvement of its
accounts, the 1987, 1988 and 1989 audit reports did not give a clean opinion on
ODEP's financial statements for the following reasons: (a) lack of consistency
in accounting principles, bad debts write-off and provision policy for
uncollectible accounts receivable; (b) lack of information on the previous RAPC's
accounts in ODEP's books; (c) absence of lenders' confirmation of the status of
the ongoing loans; (d) absence of information on a contract that ODEP manages
on behalf of the Government; and (e) restriction in the scope of auditors
investigation. Items (a) and (c) above have been tackled by ODEP's financial
department and should be resolved during fiscal year 1990. Items (b) and (d)
above will be included in the terms of the proposed Contract Plan. Discussions
between the Ministry of Finance and ODEP to solve these two problems are
currently going on. Regarding the scope of auditors' investigations, new terms
of reference have been proposed to ODEP to review the auditor's contract for
FY 1990 and thereafter.  The auditors' comments on ODEP financial statements
have been taken into consideration ih the financial analysis in Chapter V.
2.41      At negotiations, it was agreed that ODEP and the Government would
maintain appropriate accounts, including separate project accounts and would
have their accounts and financial statements audited on the basis of appropriate
terms of reference by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that
audit reports would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months following
the end of each fiscal year.
H. Tariffs and Cost Recovery
2.42      Current port tariffs, which were modified in August 1985 and September
1987, have enabled ODEP to reach an overall financial balance and generate a
positive operating income over i.he period 1985-1989.   However,  the tariff
structure is still inadequate and few tariffs are cost based.   Actually,
substantial cross-subsidies occur between port activities and traffics
(para. 2.43).  Conscious of this situation, ODEP has developed a new pricing
policy aiming at four main objectives namely: (a) overall financial equilibrium
at sector level; (b) balanced financial performance in each port; (c) balanced
financial performance for each activity, or group of activities and traffic;
and (d) uniform rates to be applied to all ports. Objective (d) is a short-term
objective to be kept while every effort is made to reduce the costs of
loss-making activities. In the longer term, the other three objectives will take
precedence.



- 21 -
2.43      In order to set up the appropriate tariff structure to meet the above
objectives, provisions were made in Loan 2657-MOR for a tariff study which has
been substantially completed. The main findings of the tariff study show that:
(a) the port of Casablanca and more recently, Tangier are making profits which
compensate for losses incurred in other ports; (b) port dues on and services to
ships are undercharged; they are subsidized by port dues on goods and cargo
handling charges; (c) some commodities, in particular ore and phosphate, do not
cover their costs; (d) the ad-valorem portion of charges on goods is
proportionally too large, blurring the relation between cost and service; and
(e) containerized goods are sometimes penalized when compared to conventionally
packed goods.   The study recommends a simplified, more cost-related tariff
structure and level, to be implemented progressively, starting in 1990. The new
tariff structure, which will be introduced in early 1991, involves a
simplification of tariffs for container handling as well as an increase in port
dues on ships.  The financial forecast in Chapter V makes allowance for such
adjustments.  ODEP is currently testing the proposed tariff to determine its
impact on ODEP activities and on users of port facilities. ODEP has developed
in selected ports a double accounting system to record simultaneously the
proceeds of the existing tariff and those which result from the new tariff. If
required, appropriate amendments will be introduced before generalizing the
tariffs to the other regional ports, which is expected before the end of
September 1991 (para. 5.08).   Details of the projected tariff structure and
level, particularly for container and Ro-Ro traffic are in Annex 4.
2.44      Although the tariff study covers a large spectrum of ODEP activities,
further investigations are needed to establish: (a) appropriate fees for use of
fishing ports facilities; (b) charges to private port operators; and (c) a tariff
applicable to coastal traffic. Consultants could also be requested to assist
ODEP in analyzing the results of the test runs referred to above. In addition,
ODEP will need to improve: (a) investment planning; (b) accounting for fixed
assets; and (c) cost accounting and budgetary systems.   The project makes
provisiorn for consulting services to assist ODEP in this regard.
2.45      Cost recovery of Government investments is based on a fee paid to the
Government by ODEP and currently evaluated at about DH 45 million per annum.
The current port dues which are paid by the port users have to generate
sufficient revenues to pay the fee.   By linking the fee to the value of
Government assets used, non economic port expansion is discouraged. The fee has
been revised, particularly in view of the transfer of assets from the Government
to ODEP (para. 2.13). Its computation is based on fixed assets which will remain
in the public domain.  The fee should c.mpensate the Government for ODEP's share
of expenditures on rehabilitation and maintenance of the assets remaining with
the Government. Accordingly, ODEP should improve its assets accounting systems
by preparing a revaluation of its fixed assets outside the existing accounting
system. This would cover: (a) Government-owned assets in various ports valued
at their historical and current values; and (b) maintenance and rehabilitation
costs of the said assets.   The system will apportion the expenditures on
rehabilitation and maintenance among the various users in an equitable manner.
These measures are included in ODEP's Development Program and are to be reflected
in the Contract Plan (para. 3.13).



- 22 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Origin and Objectives
3.01      In 1985, the Bank had originally identified a possible transport
sector operation covering all transport modes. However, in late 1987 it was
realized that the preparation of a sector operation would take considerably
longer then originally anticipated, given the time needed to (a) develop an
integrated strategy for the sector; (b) begin implementation of some policy
actions; and (c) reach a conclusion on some of the key investments under the
1988-1992 Plan. In the meantime, the railway enterprise, ONCF, had been included
in the PERL (FY87) and the Government requested continued assistance with its
priority program of road rehabilitation and maintenance which culminated in the
recently approved Highway Sector Project (FY90). Subsequently, in early 1989,
the Government and ODEP showed interest in Bank involvement in a port project
focusing on the construction of a new container terminal to relieve congestion
of the existing facilities at Casablanca. Given the recently improved capability
of the agencies involved in the port subsector, the Bank suggested that a broader
approach wfould be warranted. Accordingly, discussions opened in February 1989
on the prospects for a port sector project, oriented toward rehabilitation and
modernization of the commercial port system, which would also address broader
issues in the port subsector.
3.02      While the project takes a broad perspective on the interdependent
issues in the transport sector, it confines its support to those actions and
investments that are within the purview of the Ministry in charge of ports (MPWN)
and the administration in charge of marine security  (DMM).   It includes
institutional Development Programs providing the framework for an investment
component. The Development Programs will support the strengthening of ODEP and
Port Administration initiated under the Ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia
Project, covering investment planning, cost recovery and assets valuation, trade
facilitation and port procedures, port operations, and environmental aspects
(para. 3.12). The loans will finance selected and appraised components of the
port subsector's pluriannual investment and maintenance program during the period
1991-1993.
3.03      The project forms an integral part of the Bank's strategy to support
Government's efforts to liberalize trade and to promote exports. Port efficiency
is an important element in stimulating trade. Assistance in the country's port
investment program will ensure foreign exchange savings on sea freight rates for
both exports and imports.   The project also supports the country's current
economic policies with specific emphasis on increasing public enterprise
efficiency, rationalizing public investment programs and facilitating trade.
The ongoing Port Project, though limited in scope, has helped improve the
operational efficiency of the port of Casablanca and the management and financial
viability of ODEP.   Continued Bank involvement would help further improve
investment planning, operational efficiency and cost recovery policies in the
port subsector as a whole.



- 23 -
3.04      The objectives of the project are to:
(a)  improve operational efficiency in the potts to cope with the growth
and changing structure of foreign trade, especially through provision
of adequate facilities for unitized cargo;
(b)  assist the Government in strengthening the economic viability of its
investments in the port subsector and increasing the recovery of
infrastructure costs through inter alia appropriate changes in port
tariffs; and
(c)  encourage  policies  and  institutional  measures  aiming at better
planning and coordination of port activities in relation with
Government efforts to promote foreign trade.
B. Proiect Description
3.05      The project includes the following:
(a)  ODEP's investment program covering the period 1991-1993, subject to
annual updating;
(b)  Government's port investment and maintenance program covering the
period 1991-1993, subject to annual updating; and
(c)  appropriate institutional measures to address selected sectoral issues
concerning port planning, preparation and implementation of sub-
projects, cost recovery, port operations and management, environmental
protection, and trade facilitation.
3.06      During negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Government and
ODEP on the project objectives and description.
ODEP Investment Program
3.07      Evaluation of ODEP's estimated feasible expenditure levels from 1990
through 1993 is central to defining ODEP's investment program. During project
preparation, ODEP and the Bank confirmed that annual expenditure levels of about
DH 450 million (US$55 million equivalent) throughout the period are feasible and
realistic. This takes into account ODEP's previous work programs implementation,
NOFF's views on the current level of port dues and the need to reevaluate the
fee paid by ODEP to the Government. On this basis, ODEP established a priority
program which provides an adequate framework to project the financing
requirements. At negotiations, ODEP agreed to furnish its annual investment
program to the Bank by September 30 of each year for review and comments, and
to implement a finalized program taking into consideration Bank comments.
3.08      Table 3.1 below summarizes the expected capital expenditures budgeted
by ODEP for 1990 and estimated for 1991-1993. A more detailed breakdown is
given in Table 1 of Annex 3. Any subproject concerning commercial ports under
this program would be a potential candidate for Bank financing.   Specific
subprojects to be financed under the project will be identified on the basis of



- 24 -
agreed upon criteria and procedures for selection and implementation
(para. 3.11).   At appraisal,  it was established that the following major
subproject would be eligible for Bank financing under the loan to ODEP: a new
container terminal at Casablanca, including the provision of equipment. The
following would, subject to detailed appraisal demonstrating their economic and
technical justification, also be suitable candidates for financing under the
Loan: (a) a coal handling facility at Jorf Lasfar; (b) improved Ro-Ro facilities
at Tangier; and (c) technical assistance and training.
Table 3.1: ODEP's Rolling Plan of Capital Expenditures 1990-1993
(DH million)
Total
1990     1991     1992     1993         1990-93
DUm    USSm
ODEP
Infrastructure           85       300      235      255       875     106
Equipment               145        45       90      235       515      62
Other Programs             5       20       20        5        50       6
Studies/Training                   20       15       20        55       7
Total Base Costs          235       385      360      515    1,495      181
Contingencies              21        65       86      144       316      38
Total                     256       450      446      259    1.811       19
Government Port Investment and Maintenance Prop-ram
3.09      Government  investments  in  the  port  subsector  include  planned
expenditures by MPW on infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance and by DNM
for the provision of vessel traffic services along the Moroccan coast.  The
Government port investment program for the period 1990-1993 is presented in
Tables 2 and 3 of Annex 3, and summarized in Table 3.2 hereafter.   Planned
expenditures under the program are estimated at about DH 190 million (US$23
million) annually, representing a substantial 60X reduction over expenditures
during the period 1981-1987 which was associated with expansion of port
infrastructure  (para.  2.32).    The proposed program  focuses  entirely  on
rehabilitation of breakwaters, dredging and marine security.   Appropriate
maintenance of breakwaters is critical to the operation of Moroccan ports,
particularly because of the exposure of the Atlantic coast to powerful storms.
MPW's breakwater rehabilitation program is designed to reduce the backlog that
has accumulated over the years. The project will provide financing for priority
subprojects of this program. In addition, financing would be provided for a
time slice of dredging in Moroccan ports, subject to a satisfactory review of
operational and environmental aspects of dredging (para. 3.11). An addition
subproject consisting of providing a radar control tower on the Moroccan coast
will assist navigation and its safety in the heavily trafficked area at the
junction of the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea. The control tower
will provide vessel traffic services facilitating an efficient maritime traffic
flow to and from Moroccan ports.   The cost is estimated at DH 108 million
(US$13 million). At negotiations, the Government agreed to furnish its port



- 25 -
subsector investment program to the Bank by September 30 of each year for review
and comments, and to implement a finalized program taking into consideration
Bank comments.
Table 3.2: Government Port Investment and Maintenance Program 1990-1993
(DH million)
Total
1990     1991     1992      1993         1990-93
DP - DPCM                                                        D_Hm    USSm
Casablanca-Mohammedia    13         8        18       36       75        9
Other Brkw. Rehab.        30       35       47        59      171       21
Dredging                  44       36        54       37      171       21
Other Programs            66       35       45        69      215       26
Studies/Training           2       10         5        6       23        3
Total DP-DPCM              155      124       169      207       655      80
3NMM
Infrastructure             -        -        9        18       27        3
Equipmeat                  -       _          5       57       62        8
Total DMM                    0        0        14       75        89      11
Total Base Costs           155      124       183      282      744       91
Contingencies               14       21        43       79      157       19
Total                      169      145       226      361      901      110
Subi,roiects Eligible for Bank Financing
3.10      The Bank loans will finance subprojects related to: (a) civil works
for eligible subprojects; and (b) purchase of coal handling, computer, radar,
and telecommunications equipment. In addition, the Bank will finance equipment
related to the container terminal and to the environment and training components
as well as studies and technical assistance in support of subsector objectives.
3.11      For a subproject to be eligible for financing under the loans, it
will have to be technically feasible, economically justified and designed in
accordance with appropriate safety, health and environmental standard
satisfactory to the Bank.  For each subproject, an evaluation sheet will be
prepared on which the key technical, design, cost, economic and tentative tender
information is summarized. Eligible subprojects under ODEP's investment program
should also have an economic rate of return of at least 12%, and a first year
benefit exceeding 10%, calculated in accordance with a methodology satisfactory
to the Bank. Details of the evaluation methodology and the eligibility criteria
are given in Annex 5.   Bank missions will review these data and confirm
eligibility for inclusion in the project.   At negotiations,  agreement was
obtained on the procedures and criteria related to eligibility of subprojects
to be proposed for Bank financing. In addition, the execution of maintenance
and rehabilitation dredging in selected ports will be subject to agreement with
the Bank on environmentally sound disposal measures on the basis of the findings
of a specific environmental assessment (para. 3.40).



- 26 -
Institutional Improvements
3.12      Development Proorams.  To ensure smooth execution of the program and
efficient management of the port subsector, a Port Subsector Development Program
and an ODEP Development Program have been developed respectively with the
Government and ODEP to include key measures drawn from the Action Plan
(para. 3.35 and Annex 1).  The Port Subsector Development Program refers to
specific measures in the following areas: (a) trade facilitation; (b) investment
planning; and (c) fixed assets management. ODEP's Development Program consists
of measures in the following areas: (i) port operations, particularly on the new
container terminal; (ii) trade facilitation including port procedures and
information systems; (iii) investment planning; (iv) environment and safety; (v)
cost recovery; and (vi) fixed assets management. ODEP's Development Program
also refers to targets to be achieved by ODEP and indicators that can be
monitored  during  project  implementation  (para. 3.37).    At  negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Government and ODEP would carry out their
respective Development Programs with due diligence and efficiency.
3.13      Contract Plan.  ODEP's good management and sound financial situation
provide a suitable basis for establishing a Contract Plan. Its main objectives
would be to clarify goals and in2rease managerial autonomy. Table 5 includes
a list of items to be covered in the Contract Plan. Some of the Contract Plan
issues, particularly the one regarding the "contr6le a priori" of expenditures
will be difficult to solve on a case by case basis.  Other issues, such as
increased enterprise autonomy and setting of port tariffs, require intensive
consultations between the parties. As a result, signature of the Contract Plan
is unlikely to occur before 1991. During appraisal, the Bank commented on a
first draft prepared by ODEP. This draft has been revised in consultation with
the Directorate for Public Enterprises and Participations (DEPP), which is the
supervisory agency of the Ministry of Finance for contract plans. A second
draft Contract Plan was reviewed by the Bank during negotiations to ensure
consistency with sector objectives and with the reform of the public enterprises
sector being supported by PERL operations. At negotiations, it was agreed that
a Contract Plan satisfactory to the Bank would be signed by June 30, 1991.
3.14      Training Program.  Training needs have been identified for DP, DPCM,
and ODEP.   ODEP has prepared a three-year training program (1991-1993) for
training of its staff (Annex 2). Training programs to be implemented locally
make the fullest use of existing vocational and technical institutions and
facilities in Morocco.  In addition, the project will provide about US$2.2
million for: (a) purchase of training equipment, furniture and materials; (b)
on-the-job training in project supervision to be provided by consultants who
will also assist in the supervision of construction of the new container terminal
at Casablanca; (c) training and fellowships abroad for port planners and
managers; and (d) visiting experts to organize workshops and seminars in
specialized areas (Table 6).
3.15      Consultant Services.  About 410 man-months of consultant's services
are included in the project to assist DP, DPCM, and ODEP (Table 6). For ODEP,
these services would include 300 man-month of assistance in the areas of:
(a) detailed design of subprojects; (b) civil works supervision; (c) information
systems; (d) maintenance dredging study; and (e) supplementary cost accounting



- 27 -
studies. For the Government, about 110 man-month of assistance would be provided
for: (i) updating of the National Port Master Plan; (ii) development of criteria
for environmentally sound disposal of dredging materials; and (iii) detailed
design of subprojects. Terms of reference for studies (b), (d), (i) and (ii)
above have been drafted by the concerned agencies with Bank assistance. As in
the ongoing project, consultants will provide the required services with a mix
of local (about 190 man-months) and expatriate personnel (about 220 man-months).
C. Cost Estimates
3.16      Total capital expenditures for the port subsector during the 1991-1993
period are estimated at about DH 2,329 million equivalent to US$282 million,
with a foreign exchange cost of US$151 million. The local cost component amounts
to DH 1,085 million equivalent to US$131 million, including DH 652 million
equivalent to US$79 million in taxes and duties. The total project cost net of
taxes is therefore US$203 million equivalent. Table 3.3 below shows the total
project cost in summary form. At negotiations, the cost estimates were confirmed
by the Government and ODEP.
3.17      Cost estimates for civil works are based on unit prices for similar
works in Morocco, adjusted to March 1990 level. Equipment costs are based on
recent price experience for similar types of equipment provided by foreign
manufacturers in Morocco and in Bank-financed projects in other countries.
Technical assistance costs are based on man-month rates for consulting services
in Morocco. They include salaries, fees, international travel, and subsistence.
Duties and taxes are estimated to amount to about 28% of total costs. Physical
contingencies of 10% have been included for civil works, except for those
included in ODEP's program for which physical contingencies are estimated at 15%.
This is considered appropriate coverage given the status of design work of most
subprojects and the assessed risks which include those for difficult terrain,
especially dredging in hard materials. Price contingencies are based on local
cost increases of 6.2% in 1990, 5.6% in 1991, 5.4X in 1992, 4.4% in 1993, 4.9%
in 1994, and 5.5% in 1995, and on foreign cost increases of 4.1% in 1990, 5.3%
in 1991, 5.4% in 1992, 5.4% in 1993, 5.2% in 1994, and 5.3% in 1995. The foreign
exchange component of the civil works has been estimated at 50%. It assumes that
local contractors will carry out a sizeable portion of the works, as has been
the case in the ongoing Port Project.



- 28 -
Table 3.3: Summary of Project Costs
(base costs March 1990)
DH million                 USS million
Local    Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign  Total
ODEP
Infrastructure            395       395        790      48      48       96
Equipment                 148       222        370      18      27       45
Other Programs             18        27         45       2        3       5
Studies/Training           28        27         55       3      -A 4     l
Subtotal ODEP               589       671      1,260      71      82      153
DP - DPCM
Casablanca-Mohammedia      36        35         71       4       4        8
Other Brkw. Rehab.        104       104        208      12      13       25
Dredging                   51        76        127       6        9      15
Other Programs             29        44         73       4       5        9
Studies/Training            6        15      .21         1       2       l
Subtotal DP - DPCM          226       274        500      27      33       60
DMK                          38        51         89       5        6      11
Total Base Costs            853       996      1849      103     121      224
Physical Contingencies       74        77        15i       9        9      18
Price Contingencies         158       171        329      19       21      40
Total                     1.085    218244      22329     ILl     JU        X
D.  Financinz Plan
3.18      Table 3.4 below summarizes the expected financing sources for the port
subsector development program during 1991-1993. External funding will include
IBRD and African Development Bank (AfDB). Bank financing will amount to US$132
million, thus providing funds covering 87X of the foreign exchange costs of the
program through 1993.  Discussions between the Government and Ex-Im Bank of
Japan for a contribution of US$38 million to the project have been initiated.
Should an agreement between those parties be reached in the near future on co-
financing, the Bank intends to cancel an amount equivalent to Japanese
participation. The Bank financing will meet the foreign exchange costs of the
selected activities, plus a small amount of local costs which will partially
offset the foreign exchange cost of the non-selected components. The selected
components represent about 81X of ODEP's overall program and 471 of the
Government program. Ongoing loans from IBRD and AfDB will provide financing for
71 of the foreign costs. Bilateral financing is being considered for floating
equipment and the renewal requirements for conventional handling equipment.



- 29 -
Should bilateral financing materialize, it would reduce the contribution of the
Government and ODEP by US$3.8 million and US$6.8 million, respectively.
Table 3.4: Financing Plan
Local         Foreign          Total
----------- US$ million  ----------
IBRD                                     21.1          110.9           132.0
Ongoing IBRD                              -              4.4             4.4
Ongoing African Development Bank                          5.9            5.9
ODEP                                     75.1           15.7 1/         90.8
Government                               34.8           14.1            48.9
Total                     12L.            151.0        2HIMU
Mainly indirect foreign exchange on locally procured civil works.
Lending Arrangements
3.19      The Bank will provide two separate loans: one to ODEP for US$99
million with guarantee by the Kingdom of Morocco, and one to the Kingdom of
Morocco for US$33 million. Both loans will be made on standard Bank terms and
conditions for Morocco: 20 years' maturity, including five years of grace, at
a variable interest rate. Table 7 represents an initial allocation of the two
Bank loans of US$99 million and US$33 million to ODEP and the Government
respectively. Cross-effectiveness conditions have been introduced in both Loan
Agreements in view of the integrated nature of the Government's and ODEP's
activities under the project.
3.20      Should the Government or ODEP, in the future, have to meet the port
requirements with fewer resources than those presently foreseen, a reduction in
the overall size of the program would first be made by reducing the components
concerning lower priority activities, such as regional development, through
postponement or scaling down of subprojects.
E. Proiect Imvlementation
3.21      Each agency will be responsible for implementing its own component.
MPW will be responsible for the implementation of its component through DPCM for
the rehabilitation of the breakwater of the port of Casablanca, and through DP
for rehabilitation of breakwaters in ports other than Casablanca and Mohammedia,
dredging works, master plan studies, environmental assessment for dredging, and
related institution building. ODEP will be responsible for the execution of its
program. The Ministry of Fisheries and Merchant Marine will be responsible
through DMM for the implementation of the marine security component consisting
of a radar control tower and related vessel traffic services.
3.22      Design work is substantially completed for one major component, i.e.
the new container terminal at Casablanca. Local consultants are preparing the
bidding documents. Prequalification of civil contractors has been completed.
Bids for the container terminal have been invited; they are due early 1991.



- 30 -
Final engineering of other subprojects will be prepared by qualified engineers
of ODEP, DPCM, and DP, assisted, as appropriate, by independent engineering
consultants acceptable to the Bank under agreed terms of reference. Technical
assistance will also be provided to ODEP for supervision of construction of the
new container terminal at Casablanca. Such technical assistance will include
training of ODEP counterpart staff to enable ODEP to efficiently supervise all
other cubprojects. Specifications are already available for container handling
equipment.  Experienced consultants are carrying out a detailed study of the
radar control tower.
3.23      The project implementation period is expected to be about four years.
A detailed prograu for project execution has been prepared (Annex 6). During
negotiations, ODEP and the Government confirmed the program for project execution
and the project implementation schedule attached thereto.
F. Procurement
3.24      General.  A General Procuremenc Notice for the Project has been issued
on October 31, 1989. It will be updated periodically. Procurement for the Bank
financed components of the project will be as follows:
Table 3.5: Procurement Methods V
Project Elements                          ICB        LCB     Other    Total
-------- US$ million V-
1.   Civil Works                         148         50                  198
(85)       (4)                 (89)
2.   Cargo-handling equipment             44                    S        49
(26)                  (0)      (26)
3.   Miscellaneous equipment              13                   11         24
(7)                 (1)        (8)
4.   Consultant Services for
Training/technical assistance                              11'       11
(9)       (9)
Total                          205        50         27       282
(118)       (4)      (10)      (132)
1/ Amount in brackets show the allocations from the proceeds of the Bank loans
/ Costs include estimated contingencies
lJ/ Includes amounts for items expected to be financed by bilateral sources
i/ Limited international bidding or international shopping
i. Employment of consultants
3.25      Civil Works.  Three separate civil works contracts will be awarded
after ICB to prequalified firms for the container terminal at Casablanca, the
coal terminal at Jorf Lasfar, and the Ro-Ro terminal at Tangier.   However,



- 31 -
dredging works in Moroccan ports and miscellaneous rehabilitation subprojects
are scattered throughout the country, are of small magnitude, and are therefore
unlikely to attract foreign bidders. Nevertheless, contracts for civil works
estimated to cost US$2 million or more will be awarded on the basis of ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement. Contracts estimated to cost
less than US$2 million will be awarded following LCB procedures satisfactory to
the Bank, which are, in any case, open to foreign bidders.
3.26      Eguipment.  Container handling equipment, coal handling equipment,
radar equipment, and packages of equipment iith a combined value of US$1 million
or more, totalling US$57 million, will be procured through ICB in accordance
with Bank guidelines. For procurement of goods through ICB, local suppliers
will be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs
duty applicable to non-exempt importers or 15X of the cost-insurance-freight
(c.i.f.) price, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous items of equipment estimated
to cost less than US$1 million, but more than US$100,000, or packages having a
combined cost between these thresholds, will be purchased through limited
international bidding on the basis of comparison of bids invited from at least
five qualified suppliers. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000,
procurement will be through shopping involving at least three quotations obtained
from foreign or local suppliers, subject to an aggregate value not exceeding US$1
million per loan.  Conventional cargo handling equipment (US$5 million), and
floating equipment (US$10 millior.) are expected to be financed by bilateral
sources and procured under their own procedures.
3.27      Consulting Services. Consulting services for training, studies, final
design of subprojects, and supervision of constructior., amount to approximately
US$ll million. These services will be provided by either consulting firms or
individual experts, both selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants. The qualification and experience of consulting firms
and individual experts, as well as terms of reference and conditions of contract,
should be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.28      Prior Review.  The Bank will conduct a prior review of the first set
of bidding documents for civil works and equipment to ensure that a satisfactory
procurement process will be followed. Thereafter, a US$1 million threshold for
civil works, and a US$600,000 threshold for equipment, will be applied for prior
review, resulting in a coverage of about 90% of the contracts. Contracts that
are not subject to prior review will be subject to random post review by the
Bank after contract award. The Bank will have the right to reject the financing
of any contract for which agreed-upon bidding procedures have not been followed.
The consultants' terms of reference, their suitability for the specific
assignment and the draft contract for all assignments will be subject to prior
review and approval by the Bank.
3.29      LCB Procedures.  Although Moroccan competitive bidding procedures are
generally acceptable to the Bank, a few procedures are inconsistent with Bank
procurement policy. These procedures and proposals to improve them are detailed
in Annex 7. During negotiations, the Bank explained to the Government and ODEP
the procedures required to be compatible with the Bank's objectives of ensuring
economy, efficiency, and overall project soundness.



- 32 -
3.30      During negotiations,  all the above procurement arrangements were
agreed upon with the Government and ODEP.
G. Disbursements
3.31      Disbursements of the two Bank loans will be made on the following
basis:
(a)  civil works:              64X of total expenditures;
(b)  equipment:                100l   of foreign expenditures or ex-factory
cost, and 70X of local expenditures for items
procured locally;
(c) consulting services
and training:             100% of total expenditures.
3.32      Advance procurement of the civil works for the new container terminal
at Casablanca is in progress. Retroactive financing up to a total of US$5.0
million is recommended for payments made by ODEP after July 31, 1990, but before
the date of loan signature. This will allow an early start on some critical
project items consisting of the new container terminal and consultants' services.
3.33      A Special Account, covering all categories of disbursement for the
loan to the Kingdom of Morocco, will be established on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation will be US$2 million (four-
month average of eligible expenditures). Disbursement requests will be fully
documented except for expenditures under contracts valued below US$100,000
equivalent, which will be made on the basis of certified statement of
expenditures  (SOEs).    The  Government  and  ODEP  will  retain  supporting
documentation for at least one year after the audit for the year in which the
last disbursement from the loan account is made. This documentation will be
made available to Bank staff during supervision as well as independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The annual audits of the project accounts will include
a separate opinion on the disbursements made under the SOE procedure. Agreement
was obtained, during negotiations, on the establishment and operation of the
Special Account, and on satisfactory procedures for disbursements under SOEs.
3.34      The closing date of the Bank Loans will be June 30, 1996.  In the
past, it has taken an average of seven years to complete disbursement of loans
or credits to Morocco (all sectors), and transport project in the EMENA region
have taken equally long.   In the case of the ongoing Port Project,  the
disbursement period is likely to be five and half years. There is no standard
Bank disbursement curve for a project based on a three-year investment program.
This appraisal sets a disbursement period of five years on the basis of the time
frame of the program (1991-1993) and the arrangements for project monitoring and
supervision. The estimated disbursement schedules for the two loans are given
in Annex 8.They are based on the assumption that the loans would become
effective by March 31, 1991.



- 33 -
H.  Project Monitoring and Reporting
3.35      The project will be supervised and monitored by the Bank through the
normal supervision mechanism, and through provision of regular reports to the
Bank on all phases of the project. The Bank has prepared a monitoring tool in
the form of a detailed time-bound Action Plan which will serve as an indicative
reference for Bank supervision missions (Annex 1). Key actions drawn from the
Action Plan were agreed at negotiations and are included in the Loan Documents
and in the Development Programs (para. 3.12). Project supervision will require
about 50 staff-weeks over the four years of project implementation. The basic
staff required will include a port engineer, a financial analyst, an environment
specialist,  and  an  economist.    The  Government  and  ODEP  will  prepare:
(a) quarterly reports to the Bank on project implementation and expenditures
together with key indicators for monitoring progress made in pursuing the
objectives of the project; (b) semiannual reports on financial and operational
results of port operations and on selected port performance data; and (c) a
project completion report to be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
closing date of their respective loans. The format, content and schedule of
reports was confirmed at negotiations.   Annex 9 provides details concerning
project monitoring.
3.36      MPW and ODEP will meet at least annually with the Bank to: (a) assess
the status of the project and the progress of institutional developments using
the agreed Development Programs, targets and monitoring indicators established
under the project (para. 3.37); (b) discuss and resolve outstanding issues and
implementation problems; and (c) review the pluriannual investment and
maintenance program for the port subsector, particularly for ODEP (paras 3.07
and 3.09).
Performance Indicators. Targets and Monitoring
3.37      ODEP's Development Program provides targets and monitoring performance
indicators. Accordingly, ODEP has established selected productivity targets of
key activities based upon a detailed analysis of current port operations. ODEP
will also continue to monitor operational indicators relating to the quality and
efficiency of the maintenance operations.   ODEP's project coordinator will
include in the semiannual reports a set of comparative data, showing the actual
values of the monitoring indicators compared to targets. Performance indicators
and targets are presented in Annex 10.
I. Environmental Asnects
3.38      The project is not subject to the provisions of OD 4.00, Annex A
"Environmental Assessment" as the IEPS was issued prior to October 15, 1989.
Environmental issues were assessed by Bank technical specialists in the course
of project pre-appraisal and potential impacts were identified. Based on this
assessment, an analysis of its potential environmental impact will be carried
out and the necessary measures will be taken against any possible negative
environmental effects. Potential impacts likely to result from the project are
related to the following: (a) excavation of fill and disposal of dredging
materials associated with the construction of a container terminal at Casablanca;
(b) disposal of dredging materials associated with maintenance and rehabilitation



- 34 -
dredging in Moroccan ports; and (c) dust release during handling and storage of
dry bulk cargoes.   These impacts are discussed briefly in the following
paragraphs and covered in greater detail in Annex 11.
3.39      Construction of the new container terminal at Casablanca involves the
following quantities of materials to be moved: 3 million m3 of fill to be placed
within the boundaries of the existing port, 0.75 million m3 of soft materials and
about 50,000 m3 of hard materials to be dredged from the port area. The impact
of heavy truck traffic associated with fill work could be mitigated through
providing a portion of the required volumes through dredging of the sea bed.
ODEP is currently investigating appropriate souices of sand in areas where no
significant damage to marine ecology is to be expected.  Concerning the dredging
work, analyses of sediments have been carried out to identify any toxic or
hazardous materials and define appropriate measures for their disposal in
compliance with the London Dumping Convention.  These measures show that the
toxicity of the sediments is generally well under critical levels. Accordingly,
disposal over a selected site in deep open-water is acceptable. The authorized
site will be imposed on the contractor for civil works through adequate
provisions in the bidding documents.
3.40      The maintenance and rehabilitation dredging program is a longer-term
operation for which an environmental assessment is deemed appropriate.   The
annual volume of maintenance dredging in Moroccan ports is about 3 million i3,
consisting mostly of sand, and a limited amount of mud (50,000 in), s-attered all
along the coast. The environmental assessment will be prepared by DP with the
assistance of a local laboratory and international consultants as appropriate.
This environmental assessment will focus on the following analyses: (a)
determination of the extent and potential impact of contamination of sediments
to be dredged from the ports; (b) characterization of all the sediments in the
ports where pollution effects could be potentially serious; (c) identification
of measures likely to eliminate the sources of the contaminants; (d) selection
of disposal methods; and (e) recommendation of long term monitoring procedures
of the dredging and disposal systems. The detail and sophistication of analysis
and recommended mitigative measures should be commensurate with the potential
impact in each particular port. Accordingly, it was confirmed, at negotiations,
that the environmental assessment would cover the ports of Agadir, Kenitra,
Larache, and Safi.   It was also agreed that the environment study would be
completed by December 31, 1991 and that maintenance and rehabilitation dredging
activities in the selected ports would be carried out in accordance with the
recommendations agreed with the Bank on the basis of the results of the study.
3.41      The problem of reducing dust release is typically associated with
activities involving bulk handling of coal and cereals. Controlling cereal dust
in silos is particularly important to prevent the danger of explosion. These
problems and specific environmental impacts of other activities will be dealt
with during the design of the facilities involved. Assurances were obtaftaed,
at negotiations, that all facilities to be financed as subprojects would be
designed in accordance with environmental health and safety standards acceptable
to the Bank. This requirement will be made part of the consultants' terms of
reference for any design study.



- 35 -
3.42      In addition to the above environmental analyses, the project will
provide technical assistance and training to Government and ODEP staff to
strengthen environmental capabilities and raise environmental awareness in the
port subsector.  ODEP has already undertaken a number of actions to improve
employee health and safety of operations. Safety studies carried out in the
major ports have analyzed the risks of port operations and identified measures
to increase safety.  ODEP is currently developing training programs for port
employees in accident avoidance and handling procedures for hazardous cargoes.
The storage facilities for hazardous cargoes in the port of Casablanca will be
upgraded under the project. Furthermore, ODEP's Development Program (para. 3.12)
identifies actions aiming at: (a) defining additional investments which would
be required for compliance with international conventions in Moroccan ports
regarding the prevention of pollution and the collection of ship generated sewage
and garbage; and (b) establishing environment standards for port users,
particularly future waterfront industries. These actions will contribute to the
positive impacts which will result from the project. Moreover, the new container
terminal will reduce movements of both vessels and vehicles in relative terms,
which in turn will reduce water and air pollution as well as urban traffic
congestion. Increased containerization will also reduce the risk of spillage,
spoilage, and fire.
J. Impact on Employment
3.43      Although the development of modern cargo handling techniques reduces
the need for labor in ports, no major problem is foreseen in this area,
particularly as containerization and Ro-Ro traffic are already well developed.
ODEP's prudent personnel policy has already anticipated the reduction of the
work force. More than 20% of ODEP staff are due to retire in the next five
years. In addition, ODEP is currently preparing a study for estimating future
staff requirements.   The situation of employment in ODEP will be reviewed
periodically by Bank supervision missions. This will allow early identification
of problems if a change of external conditions were to negatively affect
employment in the port subsector.



- 36 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01      The  project  provides  for  a  continuation  of  Morocco's  port
modernization program with the main emphasis on improved handling for unitized
cargoes and for bulk imports of coal. As the project is concerned primarily
with container and roll-on roll-off traffic, the focus of the traffic analysis
is on general cargo traffic and the impact of unitization on this traffic. A
specific economic evaluation has been undertaken for the key items of the port
investment program, namely the new container terminal at Casablanca, improvements
to roll-on roll-off facilities in Tangier, and the coal berth at Jorf Lasfar.
An economic evaluation has also been undertaken for the cereals silo which will
is planned by ONICL at Agadir. These priority items represent close to 60X of
the total port investment program while a further 20% represents the completion
of ongoing projects. Of ODEP's program, the key items which have been evaluated
represent over 70% of the total. The Government program, which represents about
30% of the overall investment program, is concerned mainly with the maintenance
of existing facilities and with marine security, as such no specific economic
evaluation has been made. However, the overall feasibility of the program has
been reviewed, the main components focussing on the ports of Casablanca, Tangier,
and Agadir.  Other items of the investment program will be evaluated during
implementation of the project according to criteria agreed with the Bank
(para. 3.11). In this respect, particular attention will be given by ODEP to
establishing the needs for renewal of conventional handling equipment which is
the single most important item after the priority components listed above. An
outline of the general methodology and criteria to be used in the evaluation of
the program components is given in Annex 5.
B. Traffic Forecasts
Recent Trends
4.02      Total traffic handled by Moroccan ports has increased from 29 million
tons in 1983 to 36 million torts in 1988 of which 19 million tons were exports
of phosphates, phosphoric acid and other minerals, while 12 million tons were
imports of bulk traffic including crude oil (5 million tons), coal (1.1 million
tons), cereals (1.9 million tons) and sulphur (2.9 million tons). Exports of
phosphates and related traffic have generally been on the order of 17 to
18 million tons per year although this traffic increased to 19 million tons in
1988. However, phosphate exports subsequently declined in 1989 due to the loss
of a single major market. The contract is being re-established in 1990. Bulk
imports are mainly oil products which increased from 4.4 million tons in 1983
to 5.2 million tons in 1988 and cereals traffic which has ranged between 1.5 and
2.1 million tons since 1983. Imports of coal began to reach significr.nt levels
in the mid 1980s, with the conversion in 1986 of the coal-fired Mohammedia power
plant, the latter now requiring some 800,000 tons annually out of a total import
volume of about 1 million tons.   General cargo traffic has increased from
3.6 million tons in 1983 to 4 million tons in 1987 and 4.8 million tons in 1988.
The substantial 20% increase in traffic in 1988, which affected both imports and



- 37 -
exports, reflected the Government's recent efforts towards trade liberalization
and to unusually high demand for fruits and vegetables in Western Europe.
Table 4.1: Growth of Foreign Trade: 1983-88
(thousand tons)
Growth Rate %
1983     1985     1987      1988     1983-87  1983-88
Imports
Oil products   4,379    5,233    5,049    5,197          3.6     3.5
Coal             244       451    1,059    1,051        44.3    33.9
Sulphur        1,349    1,469    2,093    2,925         11.6    16.7
Cereals        1,858    2,042    2,065    1,515          2.7    -4.0
Other bulk       698       788      829       906        4.4     5.4
General cargo  2.084    2.437    2.617    3.063          5.9     8.0
Sub-total     10,612   12,420   13,712   14,657          6.6     6.6
Exoports
Phosphates    13,976   14,790   13,060   14,260         -1.7     0.4
Other bulk     3,125    3,415    3,609    5,240          3.7    10.9
General cargo  1.455    1.351    1,.454    l.754         0.0     3.8
Sub-total     18,556   19,556   18,123   21,254         -0.6     2.8
Total         29168                       35.911 
Source: Office des Changes
General Cargo/Unitized Traffic
4.03      Although imports of capital and intermediate goods rose steadily
between 1983 and 1987 at about 5.5% per year, this traffic jumped by 17X in
1988, partly as a result of pent-up demand following the Government's trade
liberalization program. However, the growth of imports of unitizable cargoes
followed a more regular pattern of between 7% and 8% per year between 1983 and
1988. During the same period, exports of manufactured goods declined by some
4% per year in tonnage terms, this decline being offset by continued growth in
exports of fruits and vegetables and particularly by a substantial 40% increase
in this traffic to Western Europe in 1988 V.
2/ In value terms, exports of manufactured goods have increased at about 12%
per year since 1983.



- 38 -
Table 4.2: Growth of General Cargo: 1983-88
(thousand tons)
Growth Rate X
1983     1985     1987     1988      1293-87  1983-88
Imports
Non-Unitizable 1,024    1,142    1,180    1,450          3.6     7.2
Unitizable     1.060    1.295    1.437    1.613          7.9     8.8
Sub-total      2,084    2,437    2,617    3,063         5.6      7.8
Exports
Fruits & Veg.    662       717      762    1,116        3.6    11.0
Non-Unitizable    63        61       81       90         6.5     7.3
Unitizable       730    _ 573     _ 611      548        A.4    -5.5
Sub-total      1,455    1,351    1,454    1,754         0.0      3.8
Total          I=53     IM        4071    4.817         IA       64
Source: Office des Changes
4.04      In the longer term, it is expected that the growth of general cargo
imports will be attenuated somewhat, a rate of 3.5X per year being retained for
the period 1987-2000.   However,  for unitizable cargo imports,  which are
essentially capital goods, a growth rate of about 4X per year is expected. For
exports of general cargo traffic, a modest growth rate of around 2% per year is
forecast until the year 2000. A higher rate of increase, at least in the medium
and longer term, is unlikely in view of the increasing difficulties Morocco is
expected to experience in placing its products in the EEC market. Compared to
1988 traffic levels, these forecasts imply growth rates for unitizable cargo
imports of 3.5Z per year and for unitizable exports of 2.6X per year up to the
year 2000. Detailed forecasts by type of commodity are given in Table 1 in
Amaex 12.
4.05      With a recent growth rate of about 71 per year, unitized cargoes have
increased at a higher rate than for general cargo traffic as a whole. Currently
about 601 of unitizable cargo in Moroccan ports is handled in containers or Ro-
Ro trailers, this figure being about 651 for Casablanca, and about 801 for
Tangier.   Based on an analysis of the degree of unitization for various
categories of traffic, Table 4.3 shows forecasts of unitized traffic for the
ports of Casablanca and Tangier in 1994 and 2000. These forecasts imply growth
rates for unitized cargoes of just over 51 per year for Casablanca and 71 per
year for Tangier. In the absence of improved facilities, much lower growth
rates would be expected, probably around 2.51 per year at Casablanca, and 51 per
year at Tangier. With the planned improvements in facilities at Casablanca, the
number of containers handled would increase from 94,000 TEU in 1987 to
190,000 TEU in the year 2000, while the number of Ro-Ro trailers would increase



- 39 -
from 10,000 units to 14,000 units. Further details of these forecasts are given
in Annex 12.
Table 4.3: Forecasts of Unitized Traffic
(thousand tons)
Annual rate
1987     1994     2000 _
A. General Cargo
Total General Cargo g                       3,309    4,000    4,890       3.1X
Unitizable                                  2,048    2,590    3,172      3.8X
B. Unitized Traffic Forecasts - Casablanca
a) With Project
Unitizable                             1,538    1,938    2,370      3.4X
Unitized                               1,007    1,443    1,924      5.11
X                                   65X       731      811
Total residual                        1,543    1,710    1,961       1.91
b) Without Project
Unitizable                             1,538    1,938    2,370      3.41
Unitized                               1,007    1,230    1,400      2.61
X                                   651       641      591
Total residual                         1,543    1,923    2,485      3.81
C. Unitized Traffic Forecasts - Tangier
a) With Project
Unitizable                               189      300      444      6.81
Unitized                                 150      255      400      6.9X
X                                   791       851      901
Total residual                            69      115      171      7.21
b) Without Project
Unitizable                               189      300      444      6.8X
Unitized                                 150      200      300      5.51
%                                   791       671      681
Total residual                            69      130      230      9.7X
L/ Excluding fruits and vegetables.
Other Traffic
4.06      Forecasts of coal traffic depend on the policy adopted by the National
Electricity Board (ONE) for the future thermal power plant at Jorf Lasfar and
the relative costs of coal and fuel oil. Where freight costs can be reduced,
coal appears a viable alternative to energy sources such as gas and imported
oil. According to ONE, the power plant would need imports of about 1.5 million



- 40 -
tons beginning in 1995. To this would be added some 800,000 tons of coal for
the Mohammedia power plant which are currently imported through the port of
Casablanca and carried by road to Mohammedia. As a result, the traffic estimates
which have been used for the economic and financial analyses of the proposed coal
handling berth at Jorf Lasfar assume imports of 1.5 million tons in 1995
increasing to 2.3 million tons in 2000.
4.07      Morocco has been a net importer of cereals since 1971 and over the
past decade imports have averaged just over 2 million tons (Annex 12, Table 2).
Only 60X of the traffic is handled through port silos, namely about 1 million
tons at Casablanca and 200,000 tons at Safi, the remainder of the traffic being
spread among the ports of Tangier, Agadir, Jorf Lasfar, and Nador.   Local
production of cereals is generally around 5 million tons annually although this
increased in 1988 to an all time high of 7.5 million tons, partly as a result
of good weather and partly through efforts made during the 1980s to liberalize
the sector and increase producer prices.    As a re'sult,  imports fell to
1.5 million tons in 1988 and will probably remain at a low level in 1989.
However, with a population growth rate of about 2.6X per year, increased
production is unlikely to offset the deficit in cereals supply.  Imports of
cereals are therefore expected to continue in the range of 1.5 co 2 million tons
annually.
C. Economic Analysis
General
4.08      The main benefits accruing to port users resulting from improved
container handling facilities and services are savings in ship waiting time, in
ship service time and reductions in overall cargo handling costs. These savings
are ultimately passed to producers and consumers in the form of lower freight
rates. The project will have a marked effect on cargo handling productivity
due to improved efficiency in handling container traffic as well as substantially
higher productivity on cargoes otherwise handled as general cargo. This improved
cargo handling productivity translates into reduced ship waiting and ship service
times. The provision of improved berth facilities at Jorf Lasfar for bulk coal
imports will ensure access to large 80,000 ton bulk carriers bringing substantial
savings in sea freight rates. Similar freight rate savings will accrue to the
cereals silo to be constructed at Agadir as well as savings in berth handling
costs. Other benefits such as net reductions in cargo losses for general cargo
and for cereals traffic, savings in packaging costs and other reductions in
distribution costs have not been assessed.   Moreover, the implications for
Morocco's export trade of not continuing to improve facilities for unitized
traffic cannot be realistically assessed. With many consignees now insisting
or. containerized goods, Morocco would start to lose some of its export markets
in the absence of an ongoing program of port modernization and trade
facilitation.
Container Terminal
4.09      On the basis of the forecast distribution of general cargo traffic
among containers, Ro-Ro trailers and conventional general cargo for the with and
without project scenarios (Annex 12, Table 3), an economic evaluation has been



- 41 -
undertaken of the proposed improvements to container handling facilities in the
port of Casablanca. Details of the evaluation are given in Project File Document
No. C.1 and a summary is provided in Annex 12. Tables 5 and 6 in Annex 12 show
the calculation of benefits in the key years of the benefit stream, i.e. in 1994
and 2000, as well as the complete cost/benefit stream during a 20-year evaluation
period. Benefits have been held constant from the year 2000 which is considered
to be the capacity of the new berth facilities provided under the project.
Investment costs are estimated in the first phase during the period 1991-93 at
DH 462 million net-of-tax of which DH 109 million is for equipment.  The first
phase involves the creation of two berths with a length of 350 meters and a
20-hectare storage area. Provision of equipment includes two gantry cranes, one
mobile crane and s xpporting yard equipment based on the use of straddle carriers.
A second phase of infrastructure development involving the paving of an
additional 10 h of storage area is scheduled for 1997 at a net-of-tax cost of
DH 26 million. Provision is made in the cost stream for additional equipment
to handle traffic up to the year 2000 as well as for appropriate renewal of
equipment and for residual values on civil works.
4.10      Four major categories of benefits have been estimated as follows:
(a) Ship Service Time. Savings in ship service time will follow from the
increase in throughput with the improved facilities provided under
the project. For container traffic the throughput will range from
2,300 tons to 4,500 tons per day according to type of container
vessel, 2,000 tons to 2,300 tons for Ro-Ro vessels and around 500 tons
for conventional general cargo vessels. For the latter, throughput
would normally increase to around 700 tons per day in the year 2000.
Details of the distribution of traffic by ship type, the associated
cargo handling rates, and estimates of ship service time in the with
and without project scenarios are given in Annex 12.   Total ship
service time benefits are estimated in 1994 at about DH 12 million
(US$1.5 million).
(b)  ShiR Waiting Time.   Savings in ship waiting time will also accrue
primarily from reduced congestion for conventional general cargo
traffic as two, and ultimately three, of the existing general cargo
berths would have to be assigned to container traffic in the without
project scenario.  Ship waiting time is estimated as a function of
total ship service time, taking into account the number of berths
available and the related berth occupancy rate. Details are given in
Annex  12.   Total  ship waiting  time benefits  are estimated at
DH 24 million (US$2.8 million) in 1994.
(c)  Cargo Handling Costs.  Savings in cargo handling costs will result
from improvements in efficiency for container and Ro-Ro traffic in the
with project scenario. Savings will also occur from reduced handling
costs on estimated incremental unitized cargo, the latter representing
traffic which in the absence of improvements to the container
terminal, would remain as conventional break-bulk traffic.   These
savings are estimated at DH 9 per ton for Lo-Lo containers and DH 1.5
per ton for Ro-Ro containers and trailers, while the handling cost for
conventional general cargo is estimated at DH 120 per ton. Details



- 42 -
of these costs, which exclude equipment depreciation, are given in
Annex 12.   Total cargo handling costs savings are estimated at
DH 26 million (US$3.2 million) in 1994.
(;)  Cargo Handling Costs in Foreign Ports.   Savings in cargo handling
costs will also accrue from foreign ports through reduced handling
rates applied to the estimated incremental unitized traffic in the
with project scenario.   The unit cost saving for this traffic is
estimated at DH 50 per ton and the total benefits are estimated at
DH 11 million (US$1.3 million) in 1994 (Annex 12).
4.11      A portion of the above benefits would not accrue to the Moroccan
economy and would remain with foreign shipping lines and shipping agents. Given
that about half of Morocco's general cargo maritime traffic is carried out in
Moroccan vessels, it is estimated that about 75% of the savings in ship service
and ship waiting will ultimately accrue to the Moroccan economy, both d.rectly
and through reductions in freight rates. For savings in cargo handling costs,
it is assumed that the full savings on handling costs in Moroccan ports will
accrue to the Moroccan economy while only half of the savings from foreign ports
will be reflected in reduced freight rates. On this basis, total benefits in
1994 are estimated at DH 59 million (US$7.2 million) and DH 134 million (US$16.2
million) in the year 2000. The estimated ER is about 19% with ship service time
accounting for 16% of benefits, ship waiting time 30% and handling cost savings
54%. The first year benefit (FYB) is in excess of 10%.
Tanrgier Ro-Ro Improvements
4.12      A preliminary analysis has been undertaken of the requirements for
additional Ro-Ro facilities in the port of Tangier.   Based on forecasts of
unitized traffic which are expected to increase from the current level of about
150,000 tons to 255,000 tons in 1994 and 400,000 in 2000, two additional Ro-Ro
ramps would be required in 1994 along with an additional storage area of about
three hectares. These facilities would increase the efficiency of cargo handling
and provide savings in ship service and ship waiting time.   Based on a
preliminary cost estimate of DH 50 million (US$6 million), the estimated ER is
over 50%.  However several technical alternatives need to be examined before
detailed preparation can begin. These alternatives are currently being examined
as part of an ongoing study for the port of Tangier.   Detailed feasibility
studies, prepared according to agreed procedures and criteria, will be presented
to the Bank by the end of 1990 and the proposed improvements will be considered
for financing under the project.
Coal Handline Facility
4.13      The existing berth facilities in the port of Jorf Lasfar, completed
in the mid-1980s, would only be able to handle bulk coal carriers of up to about
40,000 tons. However, by extending an existing berth by 50 meters and deepening
the berth to 15.5 meters, bulk coal carriers of up to 80,000 tons could be
handled with substantial savings ir. sea freight rates.   The cost of these
modifications is estimated at DH 110 million (US$13.3 million). However, in
order to guarantee a rapid turnaround of the 80,000 ton bulk carriers and hence
a reasonable level of sea freight savings, it will be necessary to provide higher



- 43 -
rated unloading equipment than the equipment previously envisaged.   This
equipment would require an overall rating of 2,000 tons per hour and would cost
about DH 130 million (US$15.8 million) as opposed to DH 100 million (US$12.1
million) for the lower-rated equipment.
4.14      The expected savings in sea freight rates are estimated to be about
US$3.50 per ton which on an annual traffic of 1.5 million tons of coal in 1994
increasing to about 2.3 million tons in 2000 will provide an incremental rate
of return over a 20-year period of about 50%. Various alternative scenarios
have been conducted to test the sensitivity of the results to the traffic
forecasts.   For instance, with coal imports of 1.5 million tons in 1994
increasing to 2.3 million tons in 2000, but ceasing completely thereafter, the
berth facility would still provide an ER of about 20%. Similarly, the facility
would still show an ER of about 10% with coal exports of only one million tons
annually during a 20-year period, which would correspond to the current needs.
Cereals Silo
4.15      The construction of a cereals silo which is planned by ONICL in a new
extension at the port of Agadir would represent the first major investment for
cereals import traffic in over a decade. The silo at Agadir at cost of about
DH 120 million (US$14.5 million) would have a capacity of 50,000 tons and would
be able to accommodate the large 60,000 ton bulk carriers. Annual throughput
would ultimately rise to about 500,000 tons, an increase of some 280,000 tons
over the existing traffic. The main benefits would be savings in sea freight
rates estimated at about US$ 8 per ton, handling cost savings on existing traffic
and traffic diverted from Jorf Lasfar, and distribution cost savings on part of
the traffic diverted from Jorf Lasfar and Safi. The estimated ER is about 35%,
although it should be noted that the ER would be lower if the apportioned costs
for the recently completed berth infrastructure are included in the evaluation.
Details of the evaluation are given in Annex 12.
4.16      The construction of a silo at Agadir would provide modern facilities
for about one third of Morocco's cereals imports.   The next step in the
modernization of cereals handling would be to provide improved facilities for
the remainder of the cereals traffic, particularly that part using the port of
Casablanca. With access possible for only medium-sized vessels at Casablanca,
and with related congestion problems, the provision of a new silo either in the
deepwater port of Mohammedia or at Jorf Lasfar is being considered. The project
provides for a the preparation of a medium term plan for port subsector
development which will include the study of future improvements to grain storage
and handling facilities in Moroccan ports (para. 2.04).
Summary of Evaluation
4.17      The components of the port investment program evaluated above show ERs
ranging from about 20% for the Casablanca container terminal to over 30% for
investments in bulk facilities such as coal and cereals traffic.   As these
investments represent over half of the total port investment program and as the
remainder of the program is related essentially to rehabilitation and maintenance
of existing infrastructure and to renewal of conventional handling equipment,
the overall ER for the port investment program is likely to be around 25%.



- 44 -
4.18      The proposed port investment program will generate substantial savings
in foreign exchange primarily through reductions in sea freight rates applied
to Morocco's foreign trade. For the container port program, these savings are
estimated at DH 50 million (US$6 million) in 1994 and DH 110 million (US$13
million) in the year 2000. Similar savings will accrue to the investments in
coal and cereals handling facilities, the estimated savings in foreign exchange
being around DH 25 million (US$3 million) and DH 50 million (US$6 million),
respectively in 1994 and 2000. Overall, the port investment program will provide
annual foreign exchange savings of at least DH 130 million (US$16 million) during
the 1993-97 Plan, increasing thereafter as the full impact of the program is felt
on foreign trade flows.
D. Project Risks
4.19      Forecast traffic levels constitute the main risk for the viability of
the port investment program.   Conservative estimates have been used for the
analysis and design of the proposed container terminal in the port of Casablanca.
These forecasts imply an increase in unitized cargoes in the port of Casablanca
of just over 5% per year through the year 2000 compared to a growth rate in the
recent past of about 7% per year.  Moreover, the design of the new terminal
provides sufficient flexibility to accommodate higher increases in traffic should
these materialize in the short-to-medium term. Traffic volumes will be closely
monitored and should growth exceed the current forecasts, additional equipment
can be provided at relatively short notice.   There is also considerable
flexibility in the phased implementation of the terminal's civil works, as the
need for a second phase of storage areas can always be advanced if warranted by
traffic growth. There is also some risk that the Government may lack commitment
to the institutional changes required in terms of trade facilitation and
logistics.   While progress  is now being made in improving documents and
procedures related to trade flows, trade facilitation and logistic aspects will
be closely monitored in the framework of the next phase of trade reforms being
undertaken by the Government. However, slow implementation of related measures
will not detract from the importance of undertaking the proposed container and
Ro-Ro investments under the project.
4.20      There is a somewhat greater risk related to the forecasts for coal
traffic, particularly as the latter depend on the policy adopted by ONE for the
power plants. However, to the extent that ONE will benefit from a part of the
sea freight savings brought about by the proposed Jorf Lasfar coal terminal, the
use of coal-fired plants for generating electricity is likely to far outweigh
the advantages of other energy sources such as oil and gas.  However, even
without the increase in coal traffic which is expected with the development of
the Jorf Lasfar power plant, the proposed coal handling facility would still be
justified even if it only handled the existing level of coal imports,
particularly those required for the Mohammedia power plant.



- 45 -
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Past and Present Financial Performance
5.01      The financial performance of ODEP during the period 1985-1989 has
been satisfactory, as shown in ODEP's summary consolidated financial statements
in the following Tables 5.1, 5.2, and 5.3, and detailed in Annex 13. ODEP's
working ratio is about 70% and the operating ratio is about 90%. Its operating
income has improved from DH 61 million in 1985 to DH 76 million in 1989.
Similarly, its rate of return on revalued fixed assets in operation has been
satisfactory (para. 5.04).
Table 5.1: ODEP - Income Statements for 1985-1989
(in current DU million)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Total Revenues                   590     684      772     916      957
Working Expenses                 407      524     538     592      642
Depreciation/Provisions          122     126      j 171   243      239
Operating Income             61      34       63      81      76
Interest                          11      20       34      27       36
Non Operating Expenses           _43       4       23      24       55
Income before Taxes           7      10        6      30     -15
Income after Taxes          _|
Ratios
Working Ratio (%)                 69       77      70      65       67
Operating Ratio (X)               90       95      92      91       92
Operating Inc/Rev.(%)             10        5       8       9        8
5.02      Operating revenues consist of cargo handling (about 65%) wharfage and
port dues (about 27%).  The two components increased respectively from DH 373
million in 1985 to DH 509 million in 1989 corresponding to an average increase
of 8% per year, and from DH 101 million to DH 223 million or an increase of 20%
per year. During the period under review, overall revenues increased by 12% per
year reflecting a combination of tariff increases implemented in late 1987 and
increases in traffic of about 7% per year.
5.03      Salaries and wages, and maintenance represent ODEP's major expenses.
They increased from DH 334 million in 1985 to DH 415 million in 1989 or 5% per
year. These expenses decreased from 63% of total revenues in 1985 to 51% in
1989.   However, considering the nature and composition of its assets, ODEP
charges a relatively high depreciation rate on its fixed assets--about 12% of
gross fixed assets base on average compared to an average of about 7% applied
in the financial forecasts.



- 46 -
Table 5.2: ODEP - Balance Sheet for 1985-1989
(in current DH million)
1985    186    1987    1988    1989
Net Fixed Assets in Operation   547       490     885      859     940
Other Assets                     120      260     320      471     621
Currents Assets                  480      480     361      449     447
Cash                             129      112   __51        38      go
Total Assets              a.M    1.342   I61   1AL7   £2U8
Equity                           730      787     833      879     958
Long Term Debt (L.T.D.)          144       94     293      382     413
Current Liabilities              305      433     461      521     676
Short Term Debt                   97       28   , Q30       35      41
Total Equity & Liab.         7             1, 4 617 21Z   2088
Ratios
Current Ratio                       1.5     1.3     0.8      0.9     0.7
Collection Ratio                 112      111     101       54      54
L. T. D./(Equity.+L.T.D.)         24.8    13.5    27.9    32.2    32.2
Rate of Return on Net             13.3    12.1    11.3    10.6       8.8
Fixed Assets
Rate of Return on Net              13.3    11.5    10.0      9.1     7.2
Revalued Fixed Assets
Table 5.3: ODEP - Sources & ApDlication of Funds for 1985-1989
(in current DH million)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Total Cash Generation            115      136     189      231     188
Working Capital(+/-)             -175     128     147      -28    -156
Debt Service                      -23    .57      -53      -56     -70
Net Cash Generation               -83     207     283      147     274
Equity Variation                 727       54      45       27     110
Borrowings                       252      -86     219    125        72
Available Funds                  896      175     547      299     456
Capital Expenditures             767      192     608      311     414
Cash Increase (Dec.)             129      (17)    (61)    (12)      42
,Ratio
Debt Service Ratio                (1)     4.9     5.9      2.6     4.2
5.04      Financial ratios indicate that ODEP meets its obligations under Loan
Agreement 2657-MOR.  Rates of return on unrevalued fixe-d assets in operation



- 47 -
range between 13.3X and 8.8X. Based on revalued net fixed assets, the rates of
return range between 13.3X and 7.22, which is still satisfactory compared to the
required 7.5X.  ODEP's debt service coverage ratio has been around 3.0, far
beyond the 1.4 target set under the ongoing project. The debt/equity ratio and
the ratio of debt to total capitalization range respectively between 292 and 482,
and 252 and 322; both are expected to increase due to new borrowing for
investment financing but the ratio of debt to total capitalization will be kept
within the acceptable limit of less than 502.
B. Future Financial Performance
Overall Financial Proiections
5.05      Financial projections assume that, with the exception of breakwaters
and jetties, port infrastructure currently in the public domain will be
transferred to ODEP as equity (para. 2.13) and that ODEP will continue to pay
the fee to the Government for using port infrastructure remaining in the public
domain, based on ODEP's share of the corresponding total revalued assets
(para. 2.45).    The projections also assume the implementation of a revised
tariff structure from 1991 (para. 2.43) and take into account the auditor's
recommendations (para. 2.40).
5.06      ODEP's financial forecasts are summarized below in Tables 5.4, 5.5,
and 5.6 and detailed in Annex 14. Annex 14 also includes the assumptions made
for financial projections. Table 5.4 below shows that profitability of ODEP's
o-perations will remain satisfactory. Its working and operating ratios steadily
improve from 672 in 1989 to 60% in 1995 and from 92X in 1989 to 852 in 1995
respectively, reflecting traffic trends in the coming years and the
implementation of new tariff policy.   Salaries and wages, maintenance and
depreciation represent the major operating expenses.  Salaries level reflect
ODEP's willingne3s to improve staff efficiuncy.  Salary expenses will decrease
from 262 of operating revenues in 1989 to 192 in 1995 as a result of the
retirement of 1,000 staff during the forecast period and a prudent recruitment
policy. The average salary is expected to increase at the local inflation rate.
Depreciation increases steadily due to transfer of public proper:y to ODEP and
duie to ODEP's greater involvement in financing basic infrastructure such as the
container terminal. The 72 average depreciation is appropriate and reflects
ODEP's assets structure.



- 48 -
Table 5.4: ODEP - Income Statements for 1990-1995
(in current DH million)
1990    1991    1922    1993    1994    1995
Total Revenues                969   1,074   1,176   1,281   1,326   1,376
Working Expenses              652     724      780     777     817      837
Depreciation/Provisions       185     2Z      23I      269     31       333
Operating Income         132     143     159      235     208     206
Interest                       22      22       23      30      47       70
Income before Taxes           117     123     137      208     167      140
Income after Taxes        J8 1t                                   -6-29
Working Ratio X                67      67       66      61      62       61
Operating Ratio Z              86      87       86      82      84       85
Operating Income/Revenues X   14       13       14      18      16       15
Table 5.5: ODEP - Balance Shee for 1990-1995
(in current DH million)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Net Fixed Assets              908     950   1,252   1,462   1,737   2,045
Other Assets                  554     658      837     922     957      639
Currents Assets               395     450     454      352     310      332
Cash                           55      17       31      92      83   _  63
Total Assets           1.912 I A   2,O   J      2.2   1AQ8 37079
Equity                        982   1,024   1,324   1,406   1,474   1,519
Long Term Debt (L.T.D.)       488     627      765     940   1,072   1,118
Current Liabilities           397     380     445      443     444      348
Short Term Debt                45      44   .   40      39      97       94
Total Equity & Liab.  1.912   Q 7  2.5                   a038079
Current Ratio                  1.02    1.10    1.00    0.92    0.73    0.90
Debt/Debt & Equity %           33      38       37      40      42       42
Rate of Return on Net Fix. Ass.9.6    10.4    10.0    11.6       9.4      8.6
Rate of Return on Revalued      7.8     8.5      7.0     9.4     7.5      6.4
Fixed Assets



- 49 -
Table 5.6: ODEP - Sources & AiRlication of Funds for 1990-1995
(in current DH million)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Internal Cash Generation      217     223      253     311     343      371
Working Capital(+/-)          226      72      -61    -100      -42     118
Debt Service                  -83     -97    -104    -108    -118    -185
Net Cash Generation           -91      53      211     304     268       68
Equity Variation              -35      -4      248       5       5        8
Borrowings                    119     183      178     214     229      140
Available Funds                -7     232      636     523     502      216
Capital Expenditures           18     270      623     462     511      236
Cash Increase (Dec.)          (25)    (38)      14      61      (9)    (20)
Debt Service Ratio            0.0     1.5      2.9     3.5     2.1      1.4
5.07      The forecasts show that a 7% rate of return and a debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1.5 can be achieved provided that current plans to
establish a new tariff structure beginning of 1991 for port dues on ships and
mid-year 1991 for container handling charges are implemented (para. 2.43).
However, a sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of return is particularly
sensitive to traffic fluctuations (Annex 14). Therefore, the financial situation
will be closely monitored during project implementation. In addition, current
estimates show th. t a tariff increase may be required in 1992 and 1995 in order
to maintain a satisfactory rate of return. The rate of return is based on net
fixed assets in operation revalued from time to time using the inflation rate
of the forecast period.   ODEP should also maintain a satisfactory financial
performance as measured by a debt/equity ratio of less than 50X, and a positive
current ratio; it should also maintain an acceptable internal net cash generation
of at least 40% for its development program.
5.08      At negotiations, it was agreed that ODEP would: (a) implement the new
tariff structure for port dues related to container handling and Ro-Ro traffic
by September 30, 1991; (b) achieve an annual rate of return on its revalued
assets in operation of at least 71 per year; and (c) maintain a debt service
ratio of not less than 1.5.
Container Terminal and Coal Handling Facilities
5.09      The financial viability of the Casablanca container terminal and coal
handling facilities in Jorf Lasfar has been assessed based on a rate of return
on fixed assets in operation for the container terminal and cost recovery for
coal handling facilities. The financial forecasts are summarized respectively
in tables 5.7 and 5.8 and detailed in Annex 14. Assuming the new container
tariff will be effective in mid-1991 and traffic growth of unitized goods of 5X
a year, additional tariff adjustment for local inflation rate beginning in 1995
will maintain for the container terminal a rate of return on revalued fixed
assets in operation during 1994-1999 of 91.   Container terminal financial
performance will be monitored during the project (see Action Plan, Annex 1).



- 50 -
Table 5.7: Container Terminal - Income Statements for 1993-1999
(in current DH million)
Income Accounts         1993    1994    1995      1996    1997     1998    1999
Total Revenues           155     169     152       213     232       257     281
Working Expenses          23      32       37       40      38        42      43
Depreciation              12      23      29        32      32        37      37
Interest                  28      37      39        36      33        30      40
Net Income                55      47      52        63      77        89      96
Net Income (Revalued)    52       42      47        57      72        82      87
Net Fixed Assets         296     552     842    1,047   1,134    1,227   1,336
Rate of Return %        26.7    14.3    10.2       8.9     9.3       9.1     9.6
5.10      The coal handling facility at Jorf Lasfar will be built for ONE in
order to supply coal to its proposed power plant at rate of 1.5 million tons a
year. ODEP will enter into an agreement with ONE which will govern recovery of
the investment cost, operating expenses and financial charges. The average fee
that ONE will pay to ODEP is based on the long run average cost which is expected
to be about US$ 3.4 per ton. The financial viability could be further increased
by transferring coal imports currently handled through Casablanca to the new
facility at Jorf Lasfar. At negotiations, it was agreed that ODEP would not
begin procurement of the coal terminal until an agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank, has been concluded with ONE.
Table 5.8: Coal facility - Income Statements: 1994-2000
(in current DH million)
Income Accounts          1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Total Revenues             13       36      43       44       44       44      44
Working Expenses            3       14      16       16       16       16      16
Depreciation                2        9      11       12       12       12      12
Interest                    7      13       16       16       16       16      16
Net Income                  0        0       0        0        0        0       0
Import (million tons)   0.75    0.75       1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5
Revenue/ton (DH)         17.1    48.4    28.4    29.2    29.2    29.1    29.1
Revenue/ton ($)           2.0      5.7     3.3      3.4      3.4      3.4     3.4
Overall Impact of the Project on the Government Budget
5.11      Table 5.9 below summarizes expected income in the port sector from
1990 to 1995. Overall, the situation is satisfactory because of the positive
net contribution of the sector to the national budget. Moreover, indirect taxes
earned by the Government on port activities are not taken into account, thus
underestimating the real revenues earned by the Government through sector
activities.



- 51 -
Table 5.9: Income in the Port Sector
(in current DH million)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Govern. Revenues           88      161     175      226      203    _163
From ODEP                  81     154      168      219      196      156
Others                      7        7       7        7        7        7
Govern. Expenses           67       67      77       86       87       85
Operations                 41      41       41       41       41       41
Debt Service               26       26      36       45       46       44
Net Inc. from/Op           21       94      98      140      116       77
Sector Net Inc.            79      141     151      216      178      114
Government                 21       94      99      139      116       77
ODEP                       58      47       52       77       62       37
5.12.     Over the forecast period, sector net income amounts to DH 879 million
of which DH 546 million represent net revenue to the Government budget.
Compared to the Government investments in the sector, net revenue to the budget
will represent 63X of the investments in the 1991-1993 period and 841 of
investments in the 1991-1995 period.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01.     During loan negotiations, the Bank and the Borrowers agreed on the
project objectives and description (para. 3.06), and auditing requirements
(para. 2.41), and confirmed the program for project execution (para. 3.23), and
the project monitoring and reporting procedures (para. 3.35).
6.02.     During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following points of particular significance:
(a) transmission of the Government port subsector's investment programs
to the Bank by September 30 of each year for review and comments and
implementation of a finalized program taking into consideration Bank
comments (para. 3.09);
(b) procedures and criteria related to eligibility of subprojects to be
proposed for Bank financing (para. 3.11);
(c) carrying out of the Port Subsector Development Program with due
diligence and efficiency (para. 3.12);
(d) signature of a Contract Plan between ODEP and the Government by June
30, 1991 (para. 3.13);



- 52 -
(e)  completion  of  an  environmental  assessment  of  maintenance  and
rehabilitation dredging in four selected ports by December 31, 1991,
and implementation of dredging activities in the selected ports in
accordance with the recommendations agreed with the Bank on the basis
of the results of the study (para. 3.40); and
(f)  design of all facilities to be financed as subprojects in accordance
with environmental health and safety standards acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.41).
6.03.     During loan negotiations, assurances were also obtained from ODEP on
the following point of particular significance:
(a)  completion  of  a  dredging  study  by  December  31,  1991,  and
implementation of the recommendations based on this study as agreed
with the Bank (para. 2.28);
(b)  transmission of ODEP's investment programs to the Bank by September 30
of each year for review and comments and implementation of a finalized
program taking into consideration Bank comments (para. 3.07);
(c)  procedures and criteria related to eligibility of subprojects to be
proposed for Bank financing (para. 3.11);
(d)  carrying out of ODEP's Development Program with due diligence and
efficiency (para. 3.12);
(e)  signature of a Contract Plan between ODEP and the Government by June
30, 1991 (para. 3.13);
(f)  design of all facilities to be financed as subprojects in accordance
with environmental health and safety standards acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.41);
(g)  appropriate measures to be taken by ODEP to: (i) implement the new
tariff structure for port dues related to container handling and Ro-
Ro traffic by September 30, 1991; (ii) achieve an annual rate of
return on its revalued assets in operation of at least 7X; and
(iii) maintain a debt service ratio of not less than 1.5 (para. 5.08);
and
(h)  conclusion of an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between ODEP and
ONE before beginning procurement of the coal terminal at Jorf Lasfar
(para. 5.10).
6.04.     Retroactive financing of up to a total of US$5.0 million should be
provided for payments, incurred by ODEP under the project after July 31, 1990
for engineering services, civil works for the Casablanca container terminal,
technical assistance and training (para. 3.32).



- 53 -
6.05      With the agreements on the above, the project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of 1;S$99 million to be made to ODE? with the Guarantee of
the Government of Morocco and a Bank loan of US$33 million to the Government of
Morocco. The loans would have a repayment period of 20 years, including a grace
period of five years, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 55 -
Annex 
Page 1 of 10
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DRT SECTOR PROJECT
Actiou Plan



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORM SeCTOr PROJECT
cston FLan
ACTIVITIES                   PRESET SITUATIO                        OBJECTIVES                       ACTIONS to OE TAKEN                "WM I8M
A.   WMUT? OF URlEI                                                                                 Establish  internatfonal  standards
E_  3      LATIOUS                                                                             for Moroccan ports.   Ensure hish
quality of service and improve
external relations
(a) Port Operations         Recent  actions  have  brought    Reach   productivity   levels    Monitor   physical    performance    ODEP, Anumal review
substantlat  improvements  in    cc-parable to efficient foreign    indicators compared to targets and    ulth Sank
productivity but ship service    ports (see Amex 10)                  analyze reasons for variation
time and cargo dwell time need
to be iwproved, particularly for
containers
Red4ce  cargo  d&tlI  time,    Collect and analyze data on dwell    ODEP
particularly for containers in    time for contalners at Casablanca.        arch 31t 199t
Casablanca                        Identify and implement measures to
reduce dwell time
Encourage    development    of    Maintain list of activities open to    Governnet ODEP
selected   effieient  private    prfvatesector. Establishguidelines
sector activities in port oper-    for participation in port sector
ations
(b) Trade Facilitati0n      ODEP participates in the work    Ensure that port procedures are    Uith assistanceof short-termexpert,    COEP
of the National Commission for    adapted  to  requirements  of    simplify   trade   procedures   and    October 31, 1991
Trade Simplification and action    foreign trade                      documentatfon related to ODEP, in
has been initiated under UNDP                                          Line with improvements to customs
project. ODEP has started data                                        procedures and doucments
exchange with foreign ports.
0al 
0 



Action Plan
ACTIVITIES                    PRESENT SITUATION                      OBJECTIVES                       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                 RESPONSIBILITYI
TIMING
QUALITY OF SERVICE
ELTEN3AL RELATIONS
Trade Facilitation
(continued)
When  SIPOR  and  SADOC  are    Ensure optimal exploitation of    with assistance of data processing    ODEP
installed  good  communications    SIPOR  and  SADOC  and  full    experts,  establish  efficient  and    by December 31. 1991
and   cooperation   vith   user    facilitfes for easy linkage to    rapid interface between SIPOR and
systems will  be essential  to    commercial systems                    SADoC systems and ensure facilities
port efficiency                                                         for similar links to other retevant
systems. Implement use of EDIFACT
interchange standards and check
quality of common data capture
Cc) Marketing and            Marketing  activities  to  be    Improve contacts with users            Strengthen marketing contacts with    ODEP 1991-93
Conmmnications          further developed at ODEP                                               users (shipping lines and agents)
with   objective   of    improving
operations and forecasting traffic
Training in marketing techniques        ODEP 1991
-4
In early years, ODEP's efforts    Focus improved communications    Continue action initiated by ODEP    ODEP - Users -
focussed    on    internal           And marketing actions on port    particularly : port user matnl, port    Shipping agents
comnunications                      users rather thangeneral pubkic    brochure for truck drivers, traffic    1991
signs within port areas
Develop external links giving    Establish systems providing quick    ODEP
priority   to   existing   and    access to data by users                   End 1991
potential commercial partners
(d) Multimodal               Action by ODEP to improve its    Develop   coordinated   action    The logistics study will focus on    Ministry  of  Foreign
Transport and Trade    operations is only part of a    programforiimprovementintrade    three logistic chains affecting Ro-    Trade
Logistics               wider program involving other    logistics management.   Ensure    Ro  traffic, perishable goods and
links in the transport chain.    complementarity   between    import .and export of containerized
Reform   program   for   road    logistics study and facilitation    goods
transport    currently    being    activities/studies fotlowed up
prepared   by   Ministry   of    by SIPROMAR
Transport.   Study taunched on
international   road   freight
traffic.  A study will identify
and analyze existing constraints
affecting Moroccan foreign trade
togistics
0



Action Plan
CTIVITIES                    PRESENT SITUATION                      08JECTIVES                      eCTIONS TO BE TAKEN                 RESPONSIBILITYI
TIMING
B.   JUTM IOt OF                                                 Pursue implementation of most    Strengthen capabilities to identify
1U  llETHODS TO                                             appropriate  techniques   for    new requirements and to adopt to new
OiEET tWUICti6                                              handling port traffic             developments
TRAFFIC  sEIS
(a) Growth of               Project  includes construction    Ensureappropriateorganization    Prepare organization of new terminal    ODEP
Containerization        of a new Casablanca container    of   rw    terminal   thereby    and define key performance targets          by December 31. 1992
terminal.        Implementation    encouraging maximum efficiency
supported   by   institutional
measures designed to make best                                        Devetop for atl cormercial ports a    ODEP
use of facilities for container                                       monitoring system for container and
and Ro-Ro traffic                                                     Ro-Ro traffic
(b) Sulk Traffic            Modern  bulk  handling  methods    Promote development of modern    An analysis of cereals storage and    DP
need to be further developed in    hand inc  methods  for cereal    handling in Moroccan ports will be    1991 - 92
Moroccan ports. particularly for    traffic                            included in the Ports Master Plan
cereals tratfic                                                       Study (see E(a) below) Study will
identify  further  silo  needs and
required institutional measures for
their implementation and operation
(c) Maintenance             Eauiarent:   ODEP maintenance    Optimize equipment fleet given    Monitor  ratios  for  availability    ODEP
Management              function    is   fairly    well    performance    and    quality    utilizationandefficiency. Prepare
developed, spare  part supply    objectivs                             a  rolling   investment  plan  for
need to be improved                                                   equipment
Infrastructure:        ongoing    Sustain the benefits of recent    Prepare an anmual maintenance plan    ODEP
rehabilitation effort (financed    rehabilitation programs            for   infrastructure   identifying
by ODEP and the 8ank)                                                 objectives and costs
Dredgina: maintenance dredging    Optimize operation and cost of    Establish a modernization plan for    ODEP - DRAPOR
financed by the Government and    maintenance dredging in Moroccan    dredging    operation    Including    by December 31, 1991
performed  by  a  fully  owned    ports                               organization, size, composition and
subsidiary of ODEP                                                    deployment of dredging fleet, and
costs
(d) Telecoucnications       Rapid    development   of    Efficient   use   of   modern    Prepare   with   assistance   from    ODEP
telecommunications    in    teleconnmmication  methods  to    consultants  a  Master  Plan  for    June 1991
international          trade,    enhance support given by port    Telecomunications related to ODEP    Review with Sank                ea
particularly in relation to port    sector   to   development  of    needs taking into account user needs    December 1991
operations,  requires  ODEP  to    Morocco's foreign trade            and  the  cost  effectiveness  of
define strategy in this area                                          measures proposed                                                o



Action Plan
ACTIVITIES                  PRESENT SITUATION                     OBJECTIVES                      ACTIONS TO DE TAKEN               RESPONSIBILITTYI
TIMING
C.   ORaIZATION Am                                             IProve services to users and    Establish  structures  and  adapt
NAhhTEN                                                   increase productivity through    management tools to ODEP's general
inproved organization rd ademrn   objectives
management methods
(a) Organization           ODEP    Introduced    a    new    Ensure   appropri ate    Adept maintenance and environment   ODEP 1991
administrative  technical  and    organizationaL  structures by    functions to changing needs and to
financial organization in 1988.   providing    flexibility   in   requirements identified by ongoing
This organization is now firmly    adjusting to needs of sector     studies
estab ished   and   witl  be
integrated into the SIPOR data
processing network
Cb) Data Processing        Implelentation   of   a   data    Facilitate   use   of   port    Complete  installation  of  system    ODEP
SIPOR                  processing system -SIPOR- began    facilities and improve ODEP s    taking Into account the need to:        before
in  Jamuary  1988.   ODEP has    productivity                       i)  test the system  before full    December 31, 1992
undertaken a mid-term review of                                     operation and
the system to enable corrections                                     ii  ensure compatibility with the
and changes to be made                                              Custom SADOC system and user needs
within the introduction of EDIFACT                                I
standards
tc) Procurement            The volume of CDEP*s investments    Ensure that ODEP's procurement   Establish   standard  formats  to    ODEP
require  a  rationalization  of   procedures meet obJectives for    facilitate preparation of bidding    December 1991
procurement procedures            econmy and efficiency             documents
Improve quality of bid evaluation    ODEP
through  use  of  ODEP  internal    December 1991
guidel ines for selection criteria end
preparation of evaluatian reports
* 4
0 



Action Plan
AC71VITIES                   PRESENT SITUATION                      OBJECTIVES                       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                RESPONSIBILITY/
9.   NU     n                                                     Ready availability of qualified    Plan  human  resources  management,
tB@Mii!t                                                    staff suited to sector needs       provide motivation  to  staff  and
encourage loyatty to enterprise
(a)  manpower Plarning      Human resources management is    Provide ODEP  with  means  to    Pursue    implementation    of    ODEP - Consultant
well developed.  In 1989, ODEP    prepare and implement a manpower    recommendatIons from master plan for    1991
prepared  a  master  plan  for    plan adapted to its development    human resources
employment and human resources      strategy
Review annuatly with Bank impact of    ODEP
ODEP's program on employment
(b) Training                Welt structured training program    Intensify and adapt training    Develop a training program for each    ODEP
is  being  implemented  through    effort to ODEP's needs             port                                    Annually
Port Training Center (CFP).
ODEP has prepared a pluriannual                                        Review training program annually with    ODEP
training program                                                      Bank with view to updating needs for    by December 31 of each
financing under project                 year starting 1991
0c
0
XI!
0 
Ch,



Action Plan
ATIVITIES                     PRESENT SITUATLON                      OBEcrTvIEs                       ACTIONS TO OE TAKEN                 RESPONSIBILItrI
TIIG
E.   PLANINGA                                                     Ernsure balanced development of    Improve plaming capabilities in the
Df]lUXw Eft                                                 port sector in order to meet    sector  and define  a development
needs of economy by optimizing    strategy   taking   into   account
investment decisions white at    enirotmental aspects
same time meeting ervirormental
concems
(a) Investment Ptaming    Preparation and ipplementation    Ensure  coordination  betueen    With assistance of consultants update    uP
of projects to be improved          investments in infrastructure    ports mester plan according to terms    Review   with   Sank
and equipment in the port sector    of reference agreed with the Bank       before Deceber 31,
1991
Investment program during period    Availability   of   a   modern    Provide Bank with five year rolling    ODEP - oriwtnment
1990-93   should   be   limited      iaqnning system with appropriate    plan and anmual budgets for port    Befora  Septefber 30
overatl to following levels:        cr4t.eria for project evaluation    sector.  Provide Sank with terms of    of each year from 1991
DP-DPCM      ON   700 million                                           reference for technical studies of
ODEP         ON 1,800 million                                           eligible sub-components
(b) Project Management                                           Improve  coordination  between    Implement a project monitoring system    ODEP - Goverrnent
and Monitoring                                              plaming,   programming   and
implementation of projects
(c) Envitronmnt and          Major efforts made to improve   Iprove capacity to prevent and    Procure    appropriate    equipment    ODEP
Safety                  safety for passenger and cargo    fight accidents                       included in the project, undertake    1992
traffic                                                                 training in each port and provIde
information to port users
Project includes dredging, rock    Limit  impact  of project  on    Specific measures to be inplemented   COEP
dredging    and    earthworks.    marine envirorment                    during construction                      1991 - 93
Specific provisions included in
bidding documents
Maintenance    dredging    is    Application  of  international    Undertake a study in four ports to    OP
currently urdertaken without any    agreements to limit negative    define :                                    Completion  of study
particular reference to impact    impact of dredging                    i) a methodology for testing and    and  review  of  the
on marine environment                                                   analyzing dredging samples              results with the Bank
ii) status of selected sites for    by December 31. 1991
disposal of dredging materials, and    Implementation    of
iii)  specific  measures  to  limit    appropriate  measures   e
pollution due to dredging               based on thisreview          X



Action Plan
CTIVhtIES                    PRESET SITUATION                       OBJECTIVES                       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                RESPONSIBILITYI
PLMIN;                                                                                                                                           N
Envirosuent and
Safety
(continued)
Procedwre for removal of wastes    Appicertfon of  international    EstablIsh  additional  Investments    ODEP
from shfps to be established       agreements (Narpol)                required In Noroecan ports              by Oecember 31  1992
Water  quality  In  port  of    lmprove quality of water in    Identify measures and investments to    ODEP
Casablanca affected by existing    Norocean ports                     rem0ve   waste   water   currenty    Owecenter 31t  1992
urban and Industrfal waste water                                      emptying directly Into ports
No specfic provisions to limit    Limit pollution risk by port    Analtyze air and water pollution risks   COEP
potential pollution risk from    users                                in Moroccan ports and set appropriate    Study completed
future industrial plants                                              standards to be met                     Decemter 31  1992
0'a
0



Action Plan
ACTIVItlES                    PRESENT SITUATtON                      OBJECTIVES                       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                 RESPONSIBILIT7Y
TIMING
F.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS
(a) Tariffs                  A  tariff  study was  financed    Objectives are to reach cost    Test,  adapt and  implement  study    ODEP - NPW
under  the  previous  project    recovery   by   activity   and    recommendations.           Prepare   and    sepvember 30, 1991
(Loan 2657-NOR)                     ultimatelybyport. Limitcross    implement appropriate lesislation
subsidies and simplify tariffs
Ccmplementary  study  for  tariffs    ODEP
related  to  conventional  general    1992
cargo, fishing ports, etc. lapact on
improved productivity
ODEP plans to invest in coal    Ensure  the  recovery  of  the    Conclude an agreement governing cost    ODEP - ONE
handling  facilities  at  Jorf    investment   cost,   operating    recovery  between  ODEP  and  ONE.    Before   beginning
Lasfar                              expenses and financial charges    Agreement to be satisfactory to the    procurement
Bank
(b) Fixed Assets             Certain investments in public    ODEP  to  be  responsible  for    Revalue fixed assets. Transfer net    ODEP
domain made available to ODEP in    infrastructure costs including    fixed assets (except breakwaters and    by Deceaber 31. 1991
1984 have already been renered    maintenance  and  renewal  of    jetties  and other  infrastructure
by ODEP                             assets transferred from public    belonging to pubtlic property) toODEP
domain
Include provision in contract plan
to be implemented from 1991
Pubtic  accounting  does  not    Use   assets   valuation   to:    Develop  and  iwplement  a  system,    DP
produce adequate infoemation for    (i) record and capture previous    outside the public accounting system    December 31, 1991
assets management at the level    and new assets; and (ii) def ine
of DP                               the share of assets between
users for calculating the fees
Developa tariff system enablinn    Undertake revaluationof fixedassets    ODEP - Goverrennt
full cost recovery. Ability to    outside existing accounting system    by December 31, 1991
estimate real financial return    and make provisions for renewal.
On investments
Users  fee  to  be  limited  to    Ensure   appropriate   pricing    Establish procedures and define the    ODEP   Goverunent
breakwaters ard jetties             policy   with   ODEP   being    share of infrastructure assets to be    December 31, 1991
responsibte  for  a  share  of    allocated to oOEP                         (contract plan)
infrastructure costs                                                                                  d



Action Plan
ACTIVITIES                  RPIESENT SITUATION                      OBJECTIVES                       ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                RESfSISILITY1
FIMClAIM
(contimed)
(c) Financial Control       Financial control is too rfigd      Implement  a  system   of  g    Mod{fy legislation sccordingly              ODEP - "EPP
materiori control                                                          (Contract plan)
Internal audit is limited to an    Ensure full internal audit         Estabilsh procedures for                ODEP
accounting audit                                                       I) audit of menagement and budgetary    June 30, 1991
proceures
ii) accounting audit of financial
statements
Establish and staff an internal audit   ODEP
department                              Deraeber 31, 1991
td) Budgetary Process       A new budgetary process to be    Availability of budgetary system    Estabtish performance indicators and    ODEP
implemented in  line with new    which facilitates planning and    system  for evaluating differences    December 31. 1991
organizatfon                       monitoring of expenditures and    between actual   expenditures and
nalyses of results                planned budgets
(a) FinancfalManagement    Procedures have been defined and    Modernf2ed financial management    Accelerate implementation of data    SDEP
system    being    implemented    of ODEP                             processing systems                      Deemuber 31, 1991           0%
progressively
Budgetary accountfng is in place                                       Improve budgetary procedures           ODEP
December 31. 1991
Cost accounting is to be further    Adapt cost accounting to needs    Estabtish  cost accounting  system   SOEP
developed                           of  usme      data  propessing    integrated with other information    December 31  1991
system    and   planning   and    systems
budgetary procedures
(f) financialObjectiv.                                                                             The financial objectives are:
a rate of return on total revalued    ODEP
fixed assets of at least 7X             FT 1990-1995
- a rate of return on revalued fixed    SDEP
assets of a t least 9X for the new    FY 1994-2000
container terminal in Casablanca
- a debt service coverage ratio of    CDEP
at least 1.5                            FT 1990-1999



- 65 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
KIkGDOM OF NOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
ODEP's Organization. Staffing and Training
General
1.        The Office for Port Operations (ODEP) was established on January 1,
1985 as a state-owned commercial and industrial enterprise, with financial and
administrative autonomy, under the tutelage of the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW).  ODEP took over cargo handling from the Regie d'Acconage du Port de
Casablanca (RAPC) and assumed some maintenance responsibilities previously
assigned to the regional Port Directorates.
Organization
2.        Technical assistance,  supported by the Ports of Casablanca and
Mohammedia Project (Loan 2657-MOR), assisted ODEP's in carrying out a
reorganization study to establish an appropriate organization. The study was
implemented with an extensive participation of ODEP's staff, thus building up
commitment. The basic principle of the new organization is decentralization of
operational action. At the central level, the Direction Generale (DG) defines
strategy and decides on policy matters.   It also consolidates and controls
actions and results of local Port Operations Directorates (DEPs). At the level
of each port, the DEPs are responsible for managing operations. Each DEP has
a number of Autonomous Production Centers (CPA) and functional services. The
CPAs are organized to manage the operations of homogenous geographical or
functional sections.  The result is a clear delineation of responsibilities
between the three levels: (a) CPAs are in charge of physical operations; (b)
DEPs, as profit centers, are responsible for budget execution; and (c) DG plays
the role of a holding company, providing guidance to and integration of the
DEPs. The organization at ODEP's headquarters is given on Chart No. 3 and
further discussed below (para. 7). The organization of the DEP of Casablanca
is given on Chart No. 4 and further discussed below (para. 8).
3.        Several steps in implementing the new organization have been cleared,
e.g monitoring systems, CPA accounts, accounting procedures, port management
information system project (SIPOR).   Further action will be required to
consolidate and sustain the positive results of the study.  In particular, ODEP
will need to validate the organizational processes, update the organizational
scheme and procedures on a permanent basis, ascertain coherence between
procedures, and get DEPs permanently involved in the process.   ODEP has also
to make sure that the SIPOR project takes into account users needs, integration
and cross reference between sub-components of the system, organization findings
and recommendations, definition of adequate equipment and setting up of an



- 66 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
appropriate training program. Above actions will be carried out by ODEP staff
with the assistance of short term missions of consultants as appropriate.
ODEP Headguarters
4.        The Board.  The composition of the Board is established by decree.
Although the users and providers of logistics services are represented at the
Board, there is still a strong ministerial representation. While the Prime
Minister is formally the chairman of the Board, in practice, he permanently
delegates the chairmanship to the Minister of Public Works (MPW). Members of
the Board are the Ministers of Public Works, Finarces, Interior, Commerce and
Industry, Economic Affairs, Merchant Marine and Fisheries, Agriculture, Energy
and Mines, Employment, and Transports. Two representatives of ODEP staff are
appointed to the Board by the Prime Minister. Users are represented by the
Chairman of: (a) the Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry; (b) the
Federation of the Chambers of Agriculture; and (c) the General Economic
Confederation. Port related activities are represented by the Chairman of: (a)
the Central Shipowners Committee; (b) the Association of Maritime Agents,
Consignees and Stevedores; and (c) the Freight Forwarders Association.   In
addition, the Prime Minister may appoint members who qualify as having competence
in port activities. Other members with no right to vote are: the Wali of Greater
Casablanca, the Secretary General of MPW, the Directors of relevant Central
Agencies (Ports Directorate, Customs, DPCM).
5.        The Board meets twice a year; between sessions, authority is delegated
to the Management Committee, which meets once a month, and to the General Manager
of ODEP. However, the Board decides about approval of the accounting statements,
budget, statute of personnel, and tariffs. The Management Committee is chaired
by the Secretary General of MPW. It includes representatives of the Ministries
of Finance, Interior, Merchant Marine, Commerce and Industry.   The General
Manager (GM) of ODEP is appointed by the Government, he attends and reports at
the meetings of the Board and the Management Committee.
6.        The Technical Committees.   In each port,  a Technical Committee,
chaired by the regional Director of MPW, is consulted on all matters connected
with port operations and maintenance. The Technical Committee meets at least
four times a year. The members of the Technical Committees are representative
of local administrations (Province, municipality, customs, ODEP, Maritime
Affairs), and users (Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chamber of Agriculture,
Association of Maritime Agents, ar.' Freight Forwarders Association).
7.        Headquarters employs about 90 professional staff assigned to 8
departments and 4 missions (Chart 3). The missions are the following: Secretary
of the Board and the Technical Committees, Central Services, Audit and Management
Control, Risk Management.   The departments are the following: Development,
Finance, Human Resources, Organization and Information Systems, Engineering
(civil works  and equipment),  Legal,  Social Affairs,  ar   '.egional Ports
Coordination.  Eight local DEPs are established in the main c,   rcial ports and
report to the General Manager. Small ports are operated by small units reporting
to DEPs or directly to the regional ports department.



- 67 -
AnnexA 2
Page 3 of 5
ODEP in the Port of Casablanca
8.        ODEP operating unit in the port of Casablanca (DEPC) has a more
developed organization than the other DEPs given the size and importance of the
port.  DEPC had about 2,600 staff at the end of 1989, distributed among ten
departments (Chart 4). There are five operational departments (cargo handling,
civil works, equipment, fish market, and ship repair yard) and five functional
departments (marketing and forecasting, finance and accounting, management
information and EDP, legal, and human resources). The cargo handling department
is subdivided in six Autonomous Production Centers (CPAs). These are: container
terminal, conventional general cargo berths, citrus fruit terminal, ore and oil
terminal,  backup  areas,  Ro-Ro  terminal.    Further  adjustments  to DEPC's
organization will involve generalization of CPAs to all activities.
Staffing
9.        ODEP had a total staff of 4,675 at the end of 1989.  Of the total
staff, 335 are management staff with university degrees and 2,807 are skilled
workers and technicians with appropriate training in port activities taken
either locally or abroad. The average age of staff is between 42 and 43 years.
More than 20% of staff is older than 55 years and will retire within the next
5 years. However, the management staff is younger with an average age between
35 and 36 years. Permanent dock workers' age structuve is bipolar with 40% of
staff being under 40 and 58X of staff over 45. While the average employee has
been 15 years with the port enterprise more than 60% of high level staff has
been hired within the last five years.  ODEP also hires casual labor in an
amount of about 240,000 man-days.
10.       ODEP management devotes a great deal of attention to human resources.
Actually, good human resources management is crucial for ODEP's success, given
its dimension and ambitious objectives of improving port efficiency and
productivity. ODEP has developed several actions related to manpower issues.
First, a new chart and rules for staff management dealing with recruitment,
career development and remuneration has been progressively implemented. Second,
a safety study has been carried out in several ports to analyze risks and
hazards in port facilities and operations.   As a result, a policy is being
implemented to improve working conditions and safety at work, first-aid and
social centers are established in the major ports. Finally, an ongoing manpower
planning study is aiming at evaluating manpower requirements for the future.
The study covers the following aspects: (a) identification and definition of the
current activities and related employment; (b) impact of ODEP's development on
employment; and (c) diagnostic and analysis of the gaps between employment and
human resources in terms of quality and quantity.
Training
11.       ODEP is fully aware of the importance of training. The Port Training
Center (CFP) was established at Casablanca in 1984 with the assistance of UNCTAD
to develop the TRAINMAR program. The CFP is open to administrations and private



- 68 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
firms.   Since 1985, the CFP has accomplished several goals: updating port
operation courses to fit into the new sector organization and needs; updating
statistics courses and data gathering in port operations; organizing five
courses on: port operations; international transit operations, improvement of
port throughput, management and compilation of port statistics, and port
maintenance; organizing the first TRAINMAR seminar on container terminal
management in Morocco; and introducing new courses for rescue squads, engine
drivers, maintenance technician, and security staff. In addition, seminars have
been held on the following topics: investment planning and selection, scientific
approaches to decision making, preparation of a data processing master plan,
design of a management information system, equipment management and procurement,
and overall ODEP management. The CFP has also organized workshops on safety at
work in ports.
12.       ODEP's objective is to train its entire staff through the CFP for an
average of ten days every two years. Every newly recruited dock worker is to
be trained in the CFP.   This entails committing about 5X of wage costs to
training. In 1989, training involved more than 1,000 staff (21X of total staff)
spending an average of 10 days each in training. Nearly 50% of training was
carried out in the CFP. A greater effort was devoted to higher level staff, 261
of which received training abroad with an average duration of 16 days. Future
needs for training high level staff have been discussed with ODEP and will be
supported by the project. The following table gives ODEP's three-year training
program for high level staff.



- 69 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
Breakdown of Training Requirements
Topics                        Number of Staff
1991     1992     1993
Human resources management
Courses abroad                  4        4        4
Planning methods
Courses abroad                  1        1        1
Seminar in Morocco             25        -        -
Project Management
Courses abroad                  3        3        3
Seminar in Morocco             25        -        -
Environmental Protection
Prevention and control
of oil-related pollution
Courses abroad                  2        2        2
Prevention and control
of fire
Seminar in Morocco              -       25        -
Commercial and Marketing
Courses abroad                  4        4        2
Seminar in Morocco              -       25        -
Cost accounting and finance
Courses abroad                  4        4        2
Group training in port operations
technical visits abroad        20       20       20
Total           88       88       34



- 70 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Port Investment Program: 1990-93
I. Introduction
1.        The core port investment program during the period 1990-93 is expected
to amount to about DH 2.2 billion (US$265 million) of which ODEP would account
for DR 1.5 billion (US$180 million), DP-DPCM for DR 650 million (US$75 million)
and DMM for DH 90 million (US$ll million).  Taking into accotut physical and
price contingencies, the overall program is likely to reach DH 2.3 billion
(US$280 million) in current prices. In addition, ONICL is expected to invest
some DH 120 million (US$14.5 million) in two cereals silos. Emphasis is being
given to the modernization and rehabilitation of port facilities in order to
meet increasing demand for unitized cargoes and for bulk traffic. Details of
the program are shown in Tables 1 to 3 for ODEP, DP and DPCM respectively. The
following summarizes the content of the investment program (all costs are given
in 1989 prices).
II. ODER Program
Container Terminal Tnfrastructure
2.        In order to meet the increasing demands for container traffic, growing
at 7X per year since 1983, a new container terminal is planned in the port of
Casablanca to the north of the existing phosphate/coal handling facility. The
project involves the construction of two berths over a length of 350 meters with
a depth of 12 meters and the creation of a 20 hectare storage area.   An
additional 10 hectare storage area is planned before the year 2000 and the berth
facilities can be extended in the longer term. In establishing the proposed
scheme, several alternatives were analyzed including a 400 meter berth as well
as varying dimensions for the related storage area. In addition, in view of the
need to undertake rock dredging, a minimum cost approach was adopted in locating
the site of the new berth which minimizes the combined costs of rock dredging
and earthworks. The cost of the infrastructure is estimated at DH 465 million
(US$56 million).
Container Handling Equipment
3.        ODEP is currently renewing its fleet of straddle carriers in use at
the existing container terminal in Casablanca (Mole Tarik). This involves the
purchase of nine straddle carriers at a cost of DH 50 million (US$6 million).
An order has also been placed for a new container gantry crane for use on the



- 71 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
existing terminal for which payment is covered under the 1989 budget.   Two
mobile cranes are also being procured at a cost of DH 50 million (US$6 million)
under the 1990 Budget, one of which is for the port of Tangier. Further renewal
and expansion of equipment is planned during the period 1991-93 involving the
purchase of two gantry cranes, four straddle carriers and 19 tractor-trailer
units, this equipment being planned for use on the new terminal. The cost is
estimated at DH 175 million (US$ 21 million).
Road Bridge - Gate Four
4.        A four-lane bridge is planned over the main railway line at Gate Four
in order to improve general access to the port. The proposed bridge will also
service the new container terminal located just to the north of the bridge. The
estimated cost is DH 20 million (US$2.4 million) and financing is being provided
partly under the ongoing Bank port project.
Coal Berth - Jorf Lasfar
5.        Improvements are planned to an existing berth in the port of Jorf
Lasfar in order to provide a 15.5 meter depth which is required by 80,00 ton
bulk coal carriers.  The project involves extending the berth seaward by 50
meters in addition to constructing a new quay wall to a depth of 15.5 meters.
The cost is estimated at DR 110 million (USS 13.3 million). Two high-rated
1,000 ton/hour unloaders will also be provided at a total cost of DH 130 million
(US$15.8 million).
Renewal Conventional Handling Equipment
6.        About DH 60 million (US$7.3 million) is allocated for the renewal of
conventional cargo handling equipment. No increase in capacity is expected to
be required as this type of traffic will not increase substantially in the
future.   Financing for conventional handling equipment is expected to be
provided mainly through bilateral sources.
Tangiers Ro-Ro Terminal
7.        DH 50 million (US$6 million) is foreseen for improvements to the port
of Tangiers including provision of two additional Ro-Ro ramps and extension of
related storage areas.
Other Infrastructure Investments
8.        About DH 200 million (US$24 million) is allocated to miscellaneous
infrastructure investments including DH 40 million (US$4.8 million) for the
completion of paving works and superstructure at the port of Agadir and
DH 30 million (US$3.6 million) for infrastructure works related to the ongoing
restructuring of the port of Safi.   Some DH 30 million (US$3.6 _illion) is
allocated to the improvement of fishing port facilities, particularly at Agadir,
Nador, Tangier and Casablanca.   Part of this program is expected to attract
Japanese concessionary financing.   Roughly DH 20 million (US$2.4 million) is



- 72 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
allocated to the development of facilities for pleasure craft, particularly for
an  ongoing  development  in  the  port  of  Agadir,  while  DH 10 million
(US$1.2 million) is allocated for the development of port industrial sites
mainly at Jorf Lasfar.
Miscellaneous SupRort Investments
9.        A total of DH 85 million (US$10.3 million) is allocated for a number
of miscellaneous expenditures including data processing, training, studies and
investments in port security.
III. DP-DPCN Program
Breakwater Rehabilitation
10.       DH 51 million   (US$6.2 million)   is   allocated   to   breakwater
rehabilitation in the port of Casablanca in addition to DH 24 million
(US$2.9 million) allocated to an ongoing maintenance program for the ports of
Casablanca and Mohammedia.   A further DH 171 million (US$20.7 million) is
allocated to rehabilitation of breakwaters in other ports including an ongoing
program of DH 83 million (US$10 million) for the ports of Safi, El Jadida and
Essaouira financed by the African Development Bank (AfDB). The remainder of the
program includes breakwater rehabilitation for Tangiers and Agadir.
Dredging
11.       Expenditures  on maintenance  dredging average between DH 35 and
40 million (US$4.2 to 4.8 million) annually and are concentrated on the eleven
main ports. Part of this program has recently been financed by the AfDB.
Other DP-DPCM Investments
12.       DH 67 million (US$8.1 million) is allocated to various infrastructure
projects scattered over the Moroccan ports. Some DH 80 million (US$9.7 million)
is allocated to equipment for port security, dredging and environmental
protection. About DH 23 million (US$2.8 million) is allocated to studies and
training.
IV. DMK
Radar Control Tower
13.       Investments are planned by DM14 in a radar control tower with a total
estimated cost of DH 89 million (US$10.8 million).   The tower would provide
vessel traffic services to enhance marine security and facilitate efficient
maritime traffic between Spain and Morocco on the Moroccan side. This equipment
is part of a worldwide effort to provide modern and efficient vessel traffic
services in heavily trafficked areas.



- 73 -
Annex 3
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
ODEP Investment Program: 1990-1993
(DH million 1989 prices)
1990     1991     12       1993      total
TARGETED COMPONENTS
Infrastructure
Container Terminal             -       190      150      125       465
Tangier                         -        -       20       30        50
Jorf Lasfar                     -        -       30       80       110
Eouipment
Gantry Cranes                   -        -        -      130       130
Straddle Carriers              -         -       30        -        30
Tractors/Trailers               -        -        -       15        15
Coal Unloaders                  -        -       50       80       130
Miscellaneous
Data Processing                 -        5        5        -        15
Port Security                  -         5        5        5        15
Assistance/Studies/Training             _ 20     15       20        55
Sub Total                -      220       305      485      1010
OTHER PROGRAMS
Road Bridge (Gate Four)         -       20        -        -        20
Warehouses-Casablanca         25        25        -        -        50
Agadir                         10       10       10       10        40
Safi                          10        20        -        -        30
Fishing Ports/Tourism/Misc.   40        35       25       10       110
Equipment                    125        20       10       10       165
Tugboats-Mohammedia           25        25        -        -        50
Industrial Zones               -         -       10        -        10
Ship Repair                   -         10       _        _         10
Sub Total             235      165        55       30       485
General  Total                 1      38E        Q               1L.49



- 74 -
Annex 3
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Ports Directorate (DP) Investment Program: 1990-1993
(DH millions 1989 prices)
ONGOING                      1990     1991               1993         Total
Breakwaters (AfDB)             20       35        28        -           83
Dredging (AfDB)                 4        6        15        -           25
Port Security (AfDB)            6        6         -                    12
Other Breakwaters              10        -         -        -           10
Other Dredging                 40       16         7        2           65
Other Infrastructures          40        -         -        -           40
Miscellaneous                  16                  I                    16
Sub-total             136       63       50         2         251
PLANNED
Targeted Components
Dredging                        -       11        32       31           74
Tangier Breakwater              -         -        6       39           45
Agadir Breakwater               -         -        4        8           12
Other Breakwaters               -         -        9       12           21
Port Security (Equipment)       -        -         3        2            5
Studies-Training                -        7         3        2           12
Sub-total               -       18       57        94         169
Other Programs
Const. Infrastructures          -       17        29       21           67
Dredging Equipment              -         -        5       39           44
Miscellaneous                  -        10        3          -          13
Sub-total               -       27       37        60         124
Total DP                      136      18        144      15 6



- 75 -
Annex 3
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF PPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
DPCM Investment Program: 1990-1993
(DH millions 1989 prices)
ONGOING                      1990              1991         3        Toal
Breakwaters                    13        5        -                    18
Miscellaneous                   4        2         -        -           6
Studies                         2        -        -         -
Sub-total           19         7        -        -           26
PLANMED
Targeted Coumonents
Casablanca Breakwater           -        3       14        34          51
Dredging                                 3                  4           7
Studies Training                -        3        2        4            9
Environment                     -                           2           3
Sub-total            -         9       17       44           70
Other Programs
Mohammedia Breakwater           -        -        4         2           6
Miscellaneous                   -        -        4                     9
Sub-total            -         -        8        7           15
Total DPCM                     .2                                     in
Investment Progrxa DMN (Marine Security): 1990-1993
(DH millions 1989 prices)
Radar Control Tower
Civil Works                     -        -        9        18          27
Equipment                                         5        57          62
Total DM1                       -        -       15



- 76 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Projected Tariff Structure and Level
Port dues on ships(PDS)
1.        Port dues on ships will be expressed in ECU (European currency unit)
but payable in DH. This transfers the foreign exchange risk to users and is
being presently opposed by the national shipping companies.   PDS will be
assessed on volume (instead as presently on GRT) with higher bracket on large
vessels. This will essentially affect ships under foreign flag. PDS will be
reduced for vessels with frequent calls, a substantial advantage for national
shipping companies.
Ad-valorem tax
2.        The tax will be maintained as presently at 0.2% per 10 day-period of
storage but applied for a maximum of three 10 day-periods of storage (excluding
containers and trailers).
Containers and trailers
3.        Tariffs will be assessed on unit (containers or trailers) and no more
on tonnage. The change is to be applied progressively over a period of three
years. The ad-valorem tax will be reduced to 0.2% on containers for only one
10 day-period of storage, and 0.1% on trailers for only one 10 day-period of
storage. Handling charges will be raised to compensate for the reduction of the
ad-valorem portion. A discount will be applied to export traffic.
Level of tariffs for containers and trailers
4.        After the three year period of progressive implementation, handling
charges will be as follows in DH per unit:
1991                1993
Import  Export      Import  Exort
(i) containers     full  20'         812     622        1057     805
40'        952     743         1221     944
empty 20'        225     225          250     250
40'        393     393          400     400
(ii) RO-RO   Tir                    1278     958        1136     852
cont. full  20'        832      634         740     564
40'        961     942          855     660
empty   20'        225     225          200     200
40'        393     393          350     350



- 77 -
Page 2 of 2
5.        While a comparison between tariffs applied in different ports is often
difficult, particularly vhen part of the charge is ad-valorem based, there are
clear indications that the proposed tariffs compare favorably with those applied
in the origin destination ports of Morocco's trading partners.



- 78 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Procedures and Criteria for Economic Evaluation of Subproiects
I. Introduction
1.        This annex provides background information on the general approach
used in the preparation of sub-projects and the eligibility criteria for their
inclusion in the project.
II. Evaluation Methodology
2.        The general approach and procedures described below have been employed
in the preparation of all sub-projects on which implementation would begin
during the first 12 to 18 months of the project. The same methodology will be
used for the preparation of sub-projects for inclusion in subsequent years of
the investment program. All costs would be estimated net-of-tax and net cost
streams would be developed taking into account the alternative investment
scenarios considered and related maintenance costs. The following illustrates
the kinds of benefits to be considered within a range of types of investment.
New Berth Facilities
3.        The economic effects of the construction of new beith facilities are
similar, regardless of the type of traffic considered. Generally, these effects
involve shifts in the distribution of traffic towards more efficient ship-types
which are made possible by the new facilities, with corresponding changes in
cargo handling rates and the number of trips required for a given traffic.
Although the daily ship costs involved in the use of such vessels may be higher,
these are offset by the greater productivity involved. Savings in sea freight
rates may therefore constitute the major benefits for certain types of traffic,
particularly bulk commodities. In the case of unitized cargoes, the provision
of new facilities will involve more rapid penetration of unitizable cargoes with
substantial increases in cargo handling rates for traffic otherwise handled as
break-bulk cargo. As such, the principal benefits of a new container/Ro-Ro port
facility are substantial reductions in shio service time. In addition, there
may be savings in ship waiting time as a result of avoided congestion following
the improvement of the facilities. Ship waiting time is estimated as a function
of ship service time using empirical curves which take into account the number
of berths available and assume a Poisson distribution for the arrival of
vessels. Details of the methodology are given in Project File Document No. C.1.
Additional benefits include savings in handling costs which will apply to
traffic otherwise handled as break-bulk cargo. Savings in handling costs may
also apply to existing unitized traffic due to better organization and operating
conditions on a new terminal. This general approach has been used in evaluating
the new Casablanca container terminal as described in Annex 12.



- 79 -
Annex S
Page 2 of 3
Rehabilitation of Storage Areas
4.        The economic effects of rehabilitation of existing facilities are
similar to those described above but they may differ in the degree of impact.
Such improvements will certainly have an effect on the productivity of port
handling equipment which in turn has an impact on shin service time.   In
addition, the life expectancy and/or maintenance costs of such equipment may be
lower in the absence of well-maintained storage areas. Savings in eguipment
costs would therefore constitute an additional benefit.
ReRlacement of Conventional Handline Eouioment
5.        The renewal of cargo handling equipment can be justified using a
similar approach to that described above.   As equipment ages, productivity
declines and shig service time is affected. However, a more practical approach
is required for establishing the requirements for equipment renewal and for
additional equipment capacity based on realistic traffic forecasts for various
categories of traffic and taking into account existing equipment availability
and cargo handling rates. Within this framework, threshold criteria need to be
defined for each type of equipment in respect to percentage of down-time, age
of equipment and maintenance costs.   An approach to this problem would be
developed as part of the project.
Dredging Works
6.        Generally,  no  specific  economic  evaluation  is  necessary  for
maintenance dredging operations as these works are considered necessary in order
to maintain access for the types of vessels currently using a particular port.
Should these works not be undertaken, then the average size of vessels would
decrease thereby contributing to higher sea freight charges. Ship waiting time
may also occur in the absence of dredging operations.  Capital dredging is
usually included as part of a specific port improvement scheme and as such the
costs and benefits are included in a wider economic evaluation of the scheme as
a whole.
III. Eligibility Criteria
7.        For a sub-project to be eligible for financing under the loans, it
would have to meet well defined technical and economic eligibility criteria.
For each sub-project, an evaluation sheet would be prepared on which the key
technical, design, cost, economic and tentative tender information is
summarized. An example for the Casablanca container terminal is shown in
Table 1.
8.        Before approving a particular sub-project, the Bank would require the
following:



- 80 -
Annex S
Page 3 of 3
(a)   for sub-projects related to new construction,  irprovement and
rehabilitation of port infrastructure: (i) at the preliminary stage,
a basic data sheet for each subproject substantially similar to the
sample included in Table 1; (ii) during the design stage, quarterly
progress reports of ongoing design activities under a format
satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) at the final stage, upon
completion of detail engineering, an updated basic data sheet if
changed during the design phase of the subproject and the schedule
of execution showing the sequence of tendering and construction;
(b)   for purchase of cargo-handling equipment: (i) at the preliminary
stage, for each port where equipment is to be purchased a basic data
sheet for each equipment package substantially similar to the sample
included in Table 1; and (ii) at the final stage, upon finalization
of requirements and technical specifications, an updated basic data
sheet if changed, and the schedule of execution showing the sequence
of tendering and delivery;
(c)   for purchase of equipment other than cargo-handling equipment, the
list, type and estimated value of the equipment, schedule of
execution, and the justification in relation to the requirements;
and
(d)   for studies and technical assistance, detailed terms of reference,
manpower   requirements,   cost   estimates   and   schedule   of
implementation.
9.          Eligible sub-projects would have an economic rate of return of at
least 12X, and a first year benefit exceeding 10, calculated in accordance with
the methodology described above.



- 81 -
AnnexS
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROM=CT
Summary Data Sheet for Tydical Sub-Project
Casablanca Container Terminal
1.   Basic Data
New container terminal located in area to north-east of existing
phosphate/coal handling berth. First phase involves provision of two berths
totalling 350 meters in length and creation of a 20 hectare storage area. An
additional 10 hectare storage area would be provided in 1997. These facilities
provide adequate capacity up to year 2000. Provision of container handling
equipment including two quayside gantry cranes, four straddle carriers and
19 tractor-trailer units.   This excludes ongoing renewal and extension of
straddle carrier fleet involving procurement of nine units in 1990. The new
terminal would continue to operate alongside the existing terminal (Mole Tarik).
2. Economic Impact
Project will relieve congestion in port of Casablanca and enable unitized
traffic (container and Ro-Ro) to continue increasing. Project benefits include
savings in ship service and ship waiting time through more efficient handling
for container/Ro-Ro traffic and for traffic which would otherwise be handled as
break-bulk general cargo.   Equipment operating costs would also be reduced
through a better organization of terminal operations.  A large portion of
benefits would be felt in terms of savings in foreign exchange.
3. bpecial Works
Location of terminal took into account minimization of costs of rock-
dredging and earthwork fill.
4.   Cost Estimates
Infrastructure:     DH 465 million
Equipment:          DH 175 million
5.   Traffic Forecasts ('000 tons)
Actual       With Project_         W/o Proiect
1987         1994     2000       1994      2
Container             695          1039     1443         849      966
Ro-Ro                  312          404      481         381      434
General Cargo        1543          1710     1961        1923     2485



- 82 -
Annex 5
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
6.    Cargo Handling Rates and Costs (averages)
Rates Tons/day              ith Project                 W/o Proiect
1994                       1994      2000
Container/Ro-Ro            3,000    3,200              2,100    2,100
Conventional                 600       700               600      700
Handling Costs DH/ton      With Project                 WXo Project
Container                      41                           50
Ro-Ro                            6                           7.5
Conventional                  120                          120
Handling costs foreign gorts DH/ton
130 (unitized cargo)        180 (general cargo)
Ship waiting Time Savings
1994: 20X of general cargo ship service time
2000: 50X of general cargo ship service time
7.    ShiR Costs (typical values)
Container ship     $ 6,500
Ro-Ro ship         $ 6,000
Conventional ship  $ 4,500
8.   Economic Return
Based on 20 year project life with benefits constant from year 2000:
FYB > 101
ER  -19
9.    Tnde*r
Tentative Tender Date:        October 1990
Completion Time:              40 months
Budget allocations:           1991      DH 190 million
1992     DP. 180 million
1993     DH 270 million



- 83 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Program for Project Execution
1.        Execution of the Government part of the project will primarily be the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), through the Directorate
of the Port of Casablanca and Mohammedia (DPCM) for the rehabilitation of the
breakwater of the port of Casablanca, and through the Ports Directorate (DP) for
rehabilitation of breakwaters in ports other than Casablanca and Mohammedia,
dredging works, National Port Master Plan studies, environmental assessment for
dredging, and related institution building.   In addition,  the Ministry of
Fisheries and Merchant Marine will be responsible for the marine security
component  through  the Merchant Marine Directorate  (DMK).   ODEP will be
responsible for the execution of its investment progrim. ODEP would also be
responsible for managing the consultants contract for the dredging study.
Although this study is not part of ODEP's program proper, ODEP has the staff
and facilities which would be required to make the best use of the consultants
input.   Each agency would be responsible for implementation and monitoring
progress, including the preparation of quarterly progress reports for IBRD and
the Government.   The agencies will follow the steps and time frame of the
Development Programs and comply with the physical targets for the project given
in the implementation schedules of this Annex. ODEP will be responsible for
monitoring performance indicators, and ensuring compliance with targets, for
cargo handling productivity and equipment management (Annex 10).
2.        For each subproject to be proposed for Bank financing, the individual
agencies would prepare an evaluation sheet on which the key technical, design,
cost, economic and tentative tender information is summarized (Annex 5). The
Bank missions will review these data and confirm eligibility for Bank financing.
The individual agencies would prepare, advertise, tender, and award contracts,
subject to review with the Bank. The time allowed for preparation of bids would
be at least 60 days for contracts having an estimated value of US$5.0 million
equivalent or more, and not less than 45 days for smaller contracts for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and not less than 30 days for Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB).  After completion of the contract.ng process, the
individual agencies would send to the Bank: (a) an updated evaluation sheet; (b)
a copy of the tender documents; (c) the evaluation report showing the award
decision and its rationala; and (d) the signed contract. For contracts valued
at US$100,000 or less, for which disbursements are made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure, the contracts will not be sent to the Bank for
review, but instead would be kept on file by the individual agencies for
inspection and review by Bank staff during supervision missions.



- 84 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
Casablanca Container Terminal
3.        Civil Works.   Bids have been invited from prequalified bidders.
Environmental protection measures are included in the bidding documents as well
as additional information on geotechnical conditions and analyses of sediments
and rocks to be dredged. Bids are due mid-January 1991. Execution of the works
should take about two years under normal circumstances. However, rock dredging
and difficult soil conditions may cause unexpected delays of about six to eight
months.
4.        Equipment.  ODEP staff is experienced in the procurement of container
handling equipment similar to that included in the project. The specifications
will be prepared following the Bank Guidelines and taking into account the
latest developments in technology. Manufacture, transport and erection on site
should take about 24 months for the gantry cranes and 12 months for the straddle
carriers.
5.        Consulting Services.  ODEP will appoint a foreign consultant to assist
in evaluating the bids and finalizing the civil works contract. Civil works
supervision will be done by ODEP staff assisted by consultants. Local expertise
is available in Morocco given the number of large port projects which have been
executed during the previous years. Accordingly, ODEP will be able to recruit
most of the required personnel locally. Consultants assistance will focus on:
(a) setting up appropriate procedures and methods for supervision; (b) checking
drawings and calculations; and (c) providing backup support and short term
expert assistance for specific aspects.
Jorf Lasfar Coal Terminal
6.        DP will prepare the bidding documents for civil works with the
assistance of a specialized consulting firm.   The consulting firm will be
required in its terms of reference to cover environmental aspects during
construction. ODEP will prepare the bidding documents for equipment with the
assistance of a consultant for drafting the technical specifications.   ODEP
should appoint a specialized consultant to look into the environmental aspects
of the operation of the facility, particularly dust control and compatibility
with neighboring facilities.   The timetable for this subproject should be
consistent with the estimated completion date of the power plant to be
constructed by the National Electricity Board. This should not be a problem
since the execution of the port component of this project should take about
three years, including design and procurement, i.e. two years less than for the
power plant.
Tangier Ro-Ro Facilities
7.        ODEP is currently preparing a master plan for operations at the port
of Tangier. Further studies to be financed under the project will be required
for the detail design of this subproject. Execution of civil works should start
at the end of 1992 and would take about a year to complete.



- 85 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
Breakwaters Rehabilitation
8.        DP has ample experience in preparing this type of project with the
assistance of consultants. Design studies are already available for the Tangier
breakwater. Bidding documents are being prepared by the consultants which were
responsible for the design. DP has a portfolio of subprojects at a preliminary
or detailed design stage. DP will employ consultants as appropriate for the
final design and preparation of bidding documents related to other subprojects.
In particular, minor rehabilitation subprojects will be prepared by DP staff.
9.        DPCM will be responsible for the rehabilitation of the Casablanca
breakwater.   Surveys and soundings are underway under the ongoing Ports of
Casablanca and Mohammedia Project to provide technical data to be included in
the bidding documents.
Marine Security Eguipment
10.       This component relates primarily to the construction of a control
tower to monitor circulation of ships in the vicinity of the straits of
Gibraltar.   Detailed design studies are underway with the assistance of
specialized foreign consultant. Detailed design will be reviewed by the Bank
before preparation of the bidding documents.
Dredginz in Moroccan Ports
11.       Dredging t, be financed under the project should start only after an
environmental assessment at four ports has been carried out satisfactorily and
the results discussed with the Bank.   ODEP will also undertake a study to
strengthen the maintenance operations of DRAPOR. Terms of reference for both
studies are available in the Project File Documents Nos. B.10 and B.8
respectively.   The environmental assessment is discussed in Annex 11.  The
dredging study is discussed below.
Dredging Study
12.       The objectives of the dredging study are to: (a) optimize the dredging
fleet taking into account port needs, equipment productivity of each equipment,
and operating conditions; (b) improve dredging techniques with appropriate use
of modern technology; (c) increase productivity through improved equipment
availability and better planning of maIntenance operations; (d) establish
indicators for monitoring technical and financial performance; (e) develop human
resources management; and (f) prepare a development plan for a ten-year period
including a feasibility study of the proposed investment and/or measures. Terms
of reference have been prepared by ODEP with the assistance of a foreign expert.
ODEP will be the contracting agency for this study. Accordingly, ODEP will
provide the consultants with adequate facilities and technical support. The
results of the study should be available for review with the Bank by
December 31, 1991.



- 86 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
National Ports Master Plan (PDPN).
13.       The Bank has reviewed and commented on terms of reference prepared by
DP for an update of the previous PDPN.   Bank comments focused primarily on
following points: (a) the time horizon for the plan; (b) the need for
coordination between long-term plans and short-term actions; (c) the
environmental aspects to be included in the analysis; and (d) the evaluation of
the capacity of existing facilities including possible short-term improvements.
Final terms of reference are available in the Project File Document No. B.9.
The duration of the study is approximately 12 months. Its results should be
available for the preparation of the Government five-year plan for the period
1993-1997.



- 87 -
Page 5 of 6
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE:   ODEP
1990            1991            1992             1993            1994
Project Element and Activity         1  2   3   4   1  2 :3   4   1: 2   3   4   1  2   3   4   1  2   3   4
Board Approval                       *
Loan Effectiveness                  :         :
A. New Container Terminal                                                                   :
Civil Works
Prepare bidding documents                                                       .--- - :. . .
Invite bids                    :
Execution                                                _ .   .  :   ::  i     .
Buildings                          :   :   :       :   :   :        :   :   :       :   :
Prepare bidding documents      :   :           :
Invite bids                                              _   _   _                  :
Execution           : : :   : : :   - __n:                                      ::
Gantry Cranes                                                                                        :
Prepare bidding documents      :       :                                            :
Invite bids                                                     -.
Manufacture and Erection       :   :                                          _   _
Straddle Carrier
Prepare bidding documents      :   :   :    -                                       :
Invite bids                    :                             _       -
Manufacture and Erection                 :                               _   _       -
B. Jorf Lasfar Coal Terminal                                                                ,
Quay:
Quay                     ~:   :   :       :   :   :        :   :   :       :   : :          : : :
Prepare bidding documents        - -    _          :   :          :
Invite bids                                                                        -:
Execution                                    :         :     :               _   _   _
Equipme: :                        :       :   :   :        :   :   :       :   :   :        : : :
Eguipment;:
Prepare bidding documents          :           :   :
Invite bids                                       - :   -
Manufacture and Erectionn: ,D:
C. Tangier Ro-Ro Terminal
Civil Works
Prepare bidding documents      ;             _ :       ;          :     :       :
Invite bids                                : :  :   :   :        *          :       :
Execution
D. Dredsins Study
Prepare Terms of Reference    :                                      :
Invite proposals               ---
Implementation
November 1990



- 88 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  SCHEDULE:   DP-DPCM
1990            1991             1992            1993             1994
Project Element and Activity         1  2   3   4   1: 2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1: 2   3   4   1   2   3   4
Board Approval                       *                                                             __
Loan Effectiveness                         *
A. Dredging
Prepare bidding documents
Invite bids                                                  -
Execution                      .   .
B. Breakwater Rehabilitation                                                                              :
Prepare bidding documents       :                    *
Invite bids                    :
Execution                      .   .   . 
C. Marine Security Equipment           :
Prepare bidding documents             :
Invite proposals
Manufacture and Erection       : 
D. National Port Master Plan
Prepare Terms of Reference 
Invite proposals               :   ::           :
Implementation                     :    :            in:
E. Environmental Study
Prepare Terms of Reference    ::: ::                        :   :        :   :       :      :   :     :
Invite proposals
Implementation        :            .   . 
November 1990



- 89 -
Annex 7
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Review of Local Competitive Bidding Procedures
Decree     Article            Issue                      AcceRtable Procedures
(a) 2-76-479  33    Bid evaluation committee may   No   bidders   should   be
not only seek clarifications   requested nor permitted to
from bidders, but may also   alter his  bid  after  bid
request bidders  to modify   opening.
their bids after bid opening.
(b) 209-65    1     The  CCAG applies  only  to   When reference is made to
151-66    1      civil works.   Although in   those    decrees    bidding
practice the CCAG appears to   documents should clarify what
be used for goods as well as   general conditions apply to
vorks,  the basis  on,  and   goods and services and extent
extent to which,  they are   to which they are applicable.
applicable is unclear.
(c) 2-76-479  28    Advertising period may be as   Advertising period should be
short as 15 days               about  45  days,  with  an
absolute minimum of 30 days.
(d) 2-76-479  27-35 Bidders may either submit a   Bidding  documents  should
proposed  price  (offre  de   specify  that  bidders  be
prix) or a discount on the   required  to  submit  price
price  established  by  the   offers in their bids.
Government (rabais)
In some cases a tentative   After public opening of bids,
designation of award is made,   information relating to the
subject to further analysis.   examination,  clarification
and evaluation of bids and
recommendations concerning
awards   should   not   be
disclosed to bidders or other
persons not concerned with
this process until the award
of contract is announced.



- 90 -
Annex
KINGDOM OF NOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedules of Disbursements
Loan to the Kingdom of Morocco
_US$ milliun
FYI9l   FY92  Y93    FY94    FY95    Pi
Annual                           0.5     4.7    10.3    12.0       4.9     0.6
Cumulative                       0.5     5.2    15.5    27.5    32.4    33.2
%                                  2      16       47      83       98     100
Loan to ODE
USA million
91    EY92.   FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96
Annual                           1.6    25.1    25.3    29.6    14.2       3.2
Cumulative                       1.6    26.7    52.0    81.6    95.8    ,
X                                  2      27       53      82      97      100



- 91 -
anlex 2
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Project Monitoring
General
1.        The Government and ODEP management need to receive continuous feedback
on implementation and to identify actual or potential successes and problems as
early as possible to facilitate timely adjustments to project implementation.
Regular reports should also be provided to the Bank to permit satisfactory
monitoring of project progress. To this effect, each implementing agency will
prepare: (a) compreherzive quarterly progress reports covering all aspects of
the project; (b) semi-annual reports on financial and operational results of port
operations and on selected port performance data; and (c) a project completion
report. These reports will be reviewed through the normal supervision mechanism
involving at least two supervision missions per year.   In addition,  the
Government and ODEP would meet at least annually with the Bank to: (i) assess
the status of the project and the progress of institutional developments using
the agreed Development Plans, targets and monitoring indicators established under
the project (Annex 1 and Annex 10); (ii) discuss and resolve outstanding issues
and implementation problems; and (iii) review the pluriannual investment and
maintenance program for the sector.
2.        To the extent possible, reports to be sent to the Bank will be in the
format selected by the project agencies for their own use in order to minimize
additional work and avoid unnecessary duplication of effort.
Proiect Quarterly Progress Reports
3.        Progress reports should be submitted quarterly, no later than one
calendar month after the end of each quarter. The first report should cover the
quarter ending December 1990.
4.        The quarterly report should contain the following information:
(a) General Information
(i)   the pnysical progress accomplished to date of report and during
the reporting period;
(ii) actual or expected deviations from the project implementation
schedule;



- 92 -
Atmex 9
Page 2 of 3
(iii) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effect on
the implementation schedule and the actual steps taken or planned
to overcome the difficulties and avoid delays;
(iv)  expected changes in the completion dates of the project;
(v)   key personnel changes in the staff of ODEP, the consultants and
the contractors;
(vi)  matters which may affect the project cost; and
(vii) any development activity likely to affect the economic viability
of the project components.
(b)  A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, showing the progress in each project component and including
a planned and actual expenditure graph.
(c) A financial statement showing details of the expenditures incurred
under the various components of the project and the withdrawals from
the loan and from the cofinanciers loan together with a statement
showing:
(i)   original cost estimates;
(ii)  revised cost estimates, if any, with reasons for changes;
(iii) original estimated expenditures to date;
(iv)  reasons for variations of (iii) above from actual expenditures;
and
(v)   estimated expenditure for the remaining quarters of the year.
(d)  Brief statement of the status of action in each of the covenants of
the Loan Agreement.
Semi-annual Reports
S.        The following reports will be prepared semi-annually or annually and
submitted to the Bank for the annual reviews:
(a)  investments by port
( )  previous year expenditures for infrastructure and equipment; and
(ii) investment budget for the following year and five year pluri-
annual rolling program.
(b) finances and operations
(i)   financial statements and audit reports for ODEP;



- 93 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
(ii) financial indicators;
(iii) traffic statistics and forecasts; and
(iv) operational indicators.
(c) studies and training: progress made, budget and time schedule; and
(d) progress on other items of the Development Program
Project Completion   port
6.        The Borrowers will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR), to be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.
7.        The primary objective of the PCR is to reinforce self-evaluation by
the Borrowers and the Bank's operating departments and to facilitate
dissemination of lessons learned through the project. In particular, the PCR
should include an assessment of the following:
(a) the performance by the Borrowers and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and whether the Bank could have
been more helpful;
(b) the results that can be expected from the project, as compared with
expectations at appraisal, and whether the original expectations were
realistic; and
(c) whether in retrospect the project was worth doing or could have been
done better.
8.        For those components of the project for which a rate of return was
estimated during appraisal, the PCR should contain a new estimate of the return
the project is now likely to yield and analyze the reasons for physical or
economic deviations. An annex with the relevant information supporting this
analysis should be included.
9.        The basic documents to be referred to are:
(a) Appraisal Report;
(b) Loan Agreement Documents, Supplementary Letters, etc.;
(c) Supervision Reports;
(d) Quarterly Progress Reports;
(e) Project Correspondence Files; and
(f) Miscellaneous Evaluation Reports.



- 94 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOR2CCQ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Performance Indicators and Targets
1.        ODEP is already collecting a wealth of data on port activities and is
computing a number of operational, technical and financial indicators.  The
performance indicators which are presented below will be computed to assess the
progress in achieving the objective of improving efficiency and productivity of
port operations. For some indicators, targets to be achieved in 1991 and 1993
are provided.   The actual or computed values of the indicators compared to
targets will be periodically provided in the progress reports. This information
and actions to be taken to remove obstacles and increase accomplishments would
be reviewed with the Bank at the time of the annual review on project progress.
Cargo-Handling Productivity
2.        ODEP computes gang output in tons per gang and per shift for most
commodities. While this a good measure regarding the performance of labor, it
fails to give a clear indication of how good cargo-handling operations are as
a system. To assess the efficiency from the shipowners' viewpoint, ODEP agreed
to measure ship output in tons per ship day at berth. Although targets have been
computed by taking into account the average number of gangs per ship and the
L>'erage number of shifts per day, actual values of the indicators will be derived
from direct data collection.
Gang Output                   Ship Output
Cargo Category         T/Gang/Shift                   T/ShiR/DaY
1989          1989            1991            1993
Packaged timber             174          1390            1700            2000
Bark                        446          3600            4300            5000
Sugar in bulk               422          1700            4000            5000
Fertilizers in bags          60           480             570             800
Citrus and produce          153           920            1200            1600
Round logs                  172           1400           1700            2200
Cereals                     250          1700            3000            3000
TSP in bags                 360            800           2200            3000
Barytine                   2100          5500            7500            9000
Sulfur                     3000          6000            6000            6000
Containers (boxes)           64           130             240             320



- 95 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
Use of Berthing Space
3.        The Autonomous Production Center (CPA) for conventional berths at
Casablanca prepares graphs presenting the following data: traffic, berth
throughput, berth utilization (hours), stoppages, cargo-handling rates, berth
occupancy. These indicators will also be derived from data collected at the
container and Ro-Ro terminals.
ShiR Services
4.        The following indicators will be computed separately for conventional
general cargo ships, container ships, passenger ships and Ro-Ro ships, in the
ports of Casablanca, Safi and Tangier:
Average Ship Waiting Time: Total time (in Hours) between arrival (at outer
anchorage)and berthing of all ships of the category divided by the number
of ships of the category berthed. Actual average for all ships calling at
the port of Casablanca was 0.5 day in 1988.
Average Ship Service Time: Total time (in hours) at berth (including
berthing and unberthing time) of all ships of the category divided by the
number of ships of the category.
Dwell Time of Cargo and Containers
5.        The dwell time of general cargo and containers at the port of
Casablanca will be broken down into elements allowing analyses of the causes of
delays and determination of necessary corrective actions.   In addition, for
selected transit sheds and open storage areas, the following data should be
collected:
(a) tons of cargo cleared within free period;
(b) tons of cargo remaining uncleared for more than 2, 3 and 6 weeks;
(c) number of containers (TEUs) cleared within free period;
(d) number of full containers (TEUs) remaining uncleared for more than 1,
2 and 3 weeks; and
(e) number of empty containers (TEUs) remaining uncleared for more than
1, 2 and 3 weeks.
6.        Dwell time indicators will be computed as the number of tons/TEUs-
days in storage divided by total tons/TEUs stored. The average dwell time for
import containers is currently 19 days. The target to be achieved would be not
more than 14 days in 1991 and not more than 10 days in 1993. For other cargoes,
the targets would be a reduction of dwell time of at least 25% by 1991, and at
least 50X by 1993.



- 96 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
Equipment Management Indicators
7.        ODEP establishes targets for key indicators of equipment maintenance.
The categories of equipment to be monitored under the project will be: six-ton
cranes,  four-ton forklift trucks,  and straddle carriers.    The  following
indicators are selected:
Average number of working hours per equipment categor : Total number of
working hours of equipment pertaining to the category divided by the number
of items in the category.
EguiRment Availability (Td): Total number of pieces of equipment in working
condition divided by the total number of items in the category.   This
indicator should be computed on the duration of the shift rather than at
the beginning of the shift.
Breakdown Indicator (UTp: Total hours of breakdown (or maintenance during
the working shift) divided by the sum of working hours and hours of
breakdown.
8.        Current base values and targets are given below for Td and Tp.
EouiRment Categorv      IndLcator         1989            1991           1993
Straddle Carriers          Td              73X             80X             80X
TP               6X             4X              4X
Six-ton Cranes             Td              862             881             881
Tp            0.6X            0.61           0.61
Four-ton Forklift Trucks   Td              811             851             88Z



- 97 -
Page 1 of 8
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Environmental Impact
I. Introduction
1.        In the areas surrounding maritime port installations environmental
quality indicators, i.e., for water, air and land, are for the most Rart
dependent on two main factors:
-    the quality control of urban liquid effluent discharged by the
generally large conurbations that border on these port areas;
-    the controlled management of the various pollutants discharged by
industrial plants (handling, storage, processing, manufacturing)
established in the immediate vicinity of the land-sea transit point
for the raw materials on u'ich these industries are based.
2.        The port function proper, strictly related to the presence of the
ocean-going vessels and to their loading and unloading operations, must, of
course, be covered by safety measures and attention to the protection of the
marine environment. However, the application of international regulations on
board the vessels and the customary police measures of the Harbor Master's office
do, in most situations, facilitate appropriate control over impacts directly
linked to maritime transport.
3.        Moroccan Port installations are highly dependent on the industrial and
urban environment in their close proximity, when examined from this particular
aspect of environmental protection. The willingness of the authorities to take
this aspect into account is clearly evidenced by some of the special efforts they
have recently made: e.g., the recent establishment of the ballast water discharge
station for oil tankers at the Port of Mohammedia, which has the latest
technology and is well operated. On the other hand, it must be borne in mind
that a collective national effort is needed- -particularly in the area of the
purification of urban and industrial effluent before it is discharged into the
coastal marine environment--to monitor the protection measures that are to be
introduced in the technical projects planned as part of the Port Sector Project.
Their relative efficiency is directly related to the overall implementation of
a general marine environment protection policy.
II.  Present Situation in Moroccan Ports
4.        The rapid economic development of countries in the process of
industrialization and the resulting effects in terms of urban concentration and



- 98 -
Anngx 11
Page 2 of 8
the adaptation of all infrastructure facilities have, in Morocco as in all other
countries with similar economies, been translated into priority being given to
the appropriate adaptation of production capacities. Thus, in terms of coastal
port infrastructure, several new ports have been built, while existing ports
have been expanded and developed (the quay of Casablanca, the Ports of Mohammedia
and Jorf Lasfar, and the doubling of the size of the Port of Agadir). At the
same time the Moroccan Government, which has been involved in formulating
international conventions on marine environment protection, has ratified various
treaties obligating signatory countries to adopt national measures to guarantee
the integrity of the ocean environment.
5.        The Government structures needed and the appropriate internal Moroccan
legislation are either already organized or under study:
-    the Environment Directoiate (Direction de l'Environnement), within the
Ministry of the Interior;
-    the Merchant Marine Directorate (Direction de la Marine Marchande),
within the Ministry of Fisheries and Merchant Marine, in respect of
marine environment;
-    the  National  Council  on  the  Environment  (Conseil  National  de
1'Environnement); and
-    the draft law on marine environment protection and preservation (being
prepared by the Government).
6.        rhe threat of pollution to the Moroccan coast from the discharge of
oil in the open sea resulting from the accident that occurred to the oil tanker
"KHARG V" in January 1990 has made the authorities and public opinion acutely
aware of the economic consequences that can be caused by serious disasters along
the coast.   As a result, the Government is currently going ahead with the
preparation of a program of regulatory and technical measures that should be
implemented in the very near future.
Moroccan legislation
7.        The draft Moroccan Maritime Code prepared by the Services de la Marine
Marchande et des Peches (Merchant Marine and Fisheries Departments) is to be
adapted and put before Parliament for discussion. It contains, in particular,
in Volume III, a set of provisions on "Marine Environment Preservation and
Protection, I application of which will bring Moroccan regulations up to the
international level of Western countries. All the legal instruments needed for
signature and ratification of the various international conventions formulated
by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) on the subject of marine
environment protection are to be submitted for Government regularization
proceedings.



- 99 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 8
Technical measures
8.        The Government has started implementation of a program for the
provision of equipment to fight accidental pollution from oil spills with support
measures. The program includes the following:
-    floating barriers to protect sensitive areas of the coast;
-    three reconnaissance aircraft (ongoing);
-    three  coastal  surveillance patrol boats  able  to  take part  in
lifesaving efforts at sea (under construction);
-    a radar control tower to provide modern and efficient vessel traffic
services on the Moroccan side of the straits of Gibraltar;
-    draft regulations to govern thc maritime navigation along the Moroccan
shoreline of vessels carrying hazardous materials are under study.
They will provide for the str ngthening of the resources of the Safety
Centers responsible for checking on the condition of the vessels
putting in at the ports and on their compliance with international
regulations; and
twenty Administrators of Maritime Affairs and DeLegates from Safety
Centers will be receiving long-term training in Western European
countries.
9.        All this is evidence of the determination of the Moroccan authorities
to provide the country with an organization that is consistent with the risk
level entailed in the protection of 3,600 km of shoreline, given the
intensification of maritime traffic in and out of its ports. Provisions are
included in the project to develop analysis methods through environmental and
impact studies and to train technical staff in how to incorporate concern for
environmental quality into technical projects. The following is a discussion
of environmental impacts of the project.
III. New Container Terminal at the Port of Casablanca
10.       The execution of the project to build a new container terminal at the
port of Casablanca will require a few precautions during construction.  The
quality of the marine environment in and around the Port of Casablanca is
dependent, first and foremost, on what is discharged by the various collection
facilities for untreated urban and industrial wastes from all the conurbations
of Greater Casablanca. Means of improving this situation are the subject of
studies currently under way and plans for collection facilities and treatment
plants have been submitted to the Bank as part of an Urban Sector Project. These
are priority activities and will have a major impact in improving the coastal
marine environment adjacent to the port. There are still, however, two technical
operations linked to the execution of the project that call for careful action
in terms of their impact on the marine environment, namely the adequate disposal



- 100 -
Annex 11
Page 4 of 8
of dredging materials and the provision of sand fill within the boundaries of
the existing port.
DisRosal of Dredging Materials
11.       Nautical access to the berth to be constructed (access channel,
turning circle and camber of c. ntainer quay) and also the site for the berth
itself will have to be cleared by dredging one layer of variable depth (1-6 la)
of sand or silt-mud sediments prior to executing the infrastructure works. The
estimated volume of materials to be dredged is 0.7 million i3. The physical
nature and particularly the size of the sediments does not justify the reuse of
the material as fill for the foundations to be put in. It was decided to discard
this material outside the project area.
12.       The Moroccan authorities are signatories to the London Dumping
Convention (LDC), dated October 30-November 13, 1972, on the prevention of ocean
pollution resulting from dumping of wastes at sea. Accordingly, this operation
of dumping the dredged materials will be subject to techri:al and administrative
procedures for the issue of a dumping permit (special or general) in accordance
with the provisions of the LDC, i.e.:
-    the Convention and its three Annexes (I, II and III);
-    directives for the implementation of Annex III adopted by the Eighth
Consultative Meeting of! Contracting Parties to the LDC held in London
in 1984; and
-    general directives relating to the implementation of the three Annexes
on the dumping of dredged material adopted by the Tenth Consultative
Meeting of Contracting Parties to the LDC held in London, October 13-
17, 1986.
13.       The sedimentary origin of the materials to be dredged can, for the
most part, be traced to sources outside the port area. The finest elements of
these materials are recognized as being primarily caused by the settling on basin
bottoms of the various effluent dumped by urban waste collectors and by the
accidental discharge into the ocean of products handled in bulk during port
operations  (phosphates,  coal).   An investigation was first made into the
possibility of landing these products in a permanent confinement enclosure close
to the terminal to be built. Investigations by ODEP led to confirmation that
it would be difficult to create a dumping area with the necessary capacity within
a sufficiently close distance from the extraction site. Envisaged first on the
western side of the earth foundations for the new secondary breakwater, a dumping
area would have to be created by cleaning the site where there is an outcrop of
bedrock. The cost of the work is considered prohibitive.
14.       The technique of dumping dredged materials in the ocean was used
constantly in Casablanca during the depth maintenance campaigns, which were
conducted every five to seven years. The small volumes (annual average of about
50,000 m3) of such dumping did not have any significant impact on a coastal site



- 101 -
Anmex 1
Page 5 of 8
which was also periodically subjected to extreme ocean turbulence.   During
project preparation, a sediment sampling program was agreed upon with ODEP and
LPEE (Laboratoire Public d'Essais et d'Etudes) with a view to proceeding with
the physical, chemical and bacteriological identification of the materials to
be dumped. However, the weather and ocean conaditions experienced at the project
site during the winter of 1989/90 made it impossible to carry out the sampling
in accordance with the agreed technique. There are now plans to collect samples
with the use of a mechanical dredger available at the port. The analyses ware
carried out in June 1990 and the results are available in the Project File
Document No. B.7 (e).  They indicate that the sediments to be dredged have
toxicity level well below critical values.  Accordingly, ocean dumping on a
selected site is -ppropriate.
15.       The following   considerations apply to site selection for ocean
dumping. First, dumping should be planned for depths of at least 25 m in order
to guarantee the stability of the deposit of dredged spoil, avoid the expansion
of the cover of the natural substratum over too vast an area and the dilution
of pollutants in complex liaison with the silt. This requirement can be met
without increasing costs excessively because depths of 25 m or more are prevalent
at a short distance from the head of the Moulay Youssef breakwater. Second, the
contract documents for the works will include provisions concerning the site
which will be granted a dumping permit.
Fill Work
16.       Fill work for the construction of the terminal and the associated
works calls for 3.2 million m3 of sandy fill material. The surveys carried out
on land on the use of quarry products has shown numerous constraints such as:
hauling distance, intensity of road traffic generated, high cost. The amount
of quarry products would be limited to 800,000 me and adequate measures would be
taken to mitigate the negative impact on road traffic. The remaining fill volume
(2,400,000 m3)would be extracted from the sea bed. A recent operation of the
same nature resulted in the local supply of sufficient aggregate to provide a
volume of 1 million ma. The dredging was undertaken along a coastal strip at
depths of -15 m between Casablanca and Mohammedia.
17.       Government authorization will have to be  issued to define the
technical conditions governing the extraction, following interministerial
processing organized by the Ministers responsible for the Merchant Marine and
the Environment. A formal requirement will have to be imposed on the contractors
to position the extraction between the depths of -25 m and -15 m in order to
guarantee the stability of the underwater profile of the foreshore and the
offshore dune bar along the coast. The thickness of materials to be dredged
should not exceed 2 m for the same reasons. Since ODEP was unable, before winter
set in, to undertake the geotechnical exploration work needed to locate
extraction sites that met these requirements, the price structure in the bidding
documents allows for variations in the distances from the extraction site to the
project site.



- 102 -
Annex 11
Page 6 of 8
IV. Rehabilitation Dredging in Moroccan Ports
18.       Although the maintenance and rehabilitation dredging program is a
longer term operation for which an environmental assessment is deemed
appropriate, it must be noted that Morocco does not have a serious problem in
this respect compared to other more industrialized nations of Northern Europe
and North America. Maintaining the nautical characteristics of Morocco's main
ports (besides Casablanca and Mohammedia) requires annual volumes of dredging
of between 2.8 and 2.3 million e3 of sand and between 60,000 m3 and 100,000 mn of
silts. The maintenance needs vary widely from one port to the other. In some
ports, such as El Jadida and Essaouira, the annual volume of dredging,
10,000 in/year, is tnlikely to cause much disturbance to the marine environment.
Higher volumes of dredging are required in the case of estuary ports such as
Kenitra (600,000 n3) and Larache (between 300,000 ma and 400,000 e3), and in the
case of coastal ports subject to heavy littoral drift such as Safi and Agadir
(between 400,000 e3 and 450,000 i3).  This sedimentation thus raises questions
concerning the identification of the dredged materials and the appropriate
selection of dumping sites in the offshore marine environment.
19.       With the exception cf the ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia, the
ports most affected by sedimentary deposits are not located in dense urban or
industrial environments.   As a result, high levels of contamination of the
sediments to be dredged are unlikely to occur in most sites. But the concerns
related to maintenance dredging are not limited to the physico-chemical nature
of the sediments. Deepening channels by dredging alters water circulation. This
in turn causes changes in salinity, dissolved oxygen and velocity profiles in
the sections treated. The increased turbidity of the water brings about a drop
in light penetration, which affects all the processes of primary production and
life of the benthic, planktonic and demersal fauna. Lastly, selection of sites
for the dumping of dredged materials must be governed by strategic decision
making based on the best available knowledge of the future of the materials
dumped: stability, diffusion, reincorporation into the transport movements
interrupted by port works, effect on beach levels in sections experiencing
erosion. Analysis of these various factors must be based on a detailed study
of the environmental conditions of the individual port site and of the coastal
area in the immediate vicinity.
20.       The  project would  support  a pilot  study  in  the  form  of  an
environmental assessment focusing on dredging in the ports of Agadir, Kenitra,
Larache and Safi. Carrying out an environmental assessment at those sites with
a variety of contexts (estuary and coastal with littoral drift) will provide a
training opportunity for the engineers and managers of the staff of the
Directorate of Ports, thus p;oviding a comprehensive approach to the impact of
dredging activities on sensitive shallow coastal areas. The terms of reference
for this study are available in the Project File Document No. B.10.
V. Water Ouality in the Port of Casablanca
21.       The direct dumping into the ocean of untreated urban effluent from all
Morocco's largest urban areas is a cause of concern and requires remedial action.



- 103 -
Page 7 of 8
The condition of the Port of Casablanca must, in this respect, be brought into
line with the declaration of the Tenth Meeting of the Contracting Parties to the
London Convention held in Octcber 1986. This declaration recognized that the
cause of contamination of sediments that are to be dredged is the dumping of
hazardous material, into inland and coastal waterways and that these problems
would continue to occur unless dumping is more strictly controlled at the source.
/ny program of action to control port water quality must have as its first
priority the building of structures for the collection and treatment of wastes
that are currently discnarged into the port basins (Hansali collector). In the
fisheries sector, in particular, the elimination of collector dumping is a
measure that is urgently needed to improve the health conditions of the sector.
22.       Second, there seems to be a need for regular measurement of the
parameters of the physicochemical quality of watershed water and of the coastal
marine environment within external proximity to the port protection structures.
The systematic collection of data over a long period is a prerequisite for: (a)
implementing sanitary suiveillance of consumer products originating from the
ocean or of sea bathing; and (b) defining the conditions for the difficult task
of disposing of effluent from the purification stations which ar- included in
the plans. The Directorate for Merchant Marine (DMM) has the ,ervices oGf an
Institut Scientifique des Peches Maritimes (ISPM), staffed by experts and
equipped with laboratory facilities geared to the operation of a Reseau National
d'Observation du Milieu Marin (RNO).
VI. Control of Air Pollution from Dust Emissions
23.       The high volume of traffic in heavy goods handled in bulk at the main
ports, i.e., Casablanca and Jorf Lasfar, causes atmospheric pollution from dust
emissions from phosphates and coal, which are noxious to the quality of the
environment in the immediate vicinity. In addition, cereals dust is an explosion
hazard in silos. The introduction of measures and procedures designed to prevent
and reduce these sources of atmospheric pollution will be part of all new
projects. Adequate provisions will be included in the terms of reference of
consultants in charge of design work for new cereals and coal handl.ng
facilities.
24.       Concerning existing facilities, a mission of consultants at the two
main ports would carry out a study with the following objectives. First, an
inventory would be made of possible situations where air pollution is
incompatible with, and hazardous to industrial activities in the neighboring
areas which are affected by sigr.ificant levels of these dust emissions. Priority
attention should be given to the risks of contamination of nitrate fertilizer
operations from the emission of organic materials. Second, a review would be
made of handling techniques likely to create situations of instantaneous dust
concentration equal to or higher than 150 mg per nano m3 of surrounding air. For
such situations, solutions have been introduced under identical circumstances
in other ports: covering of hatches, intermediate hoppers under negative
pressure, covered dump trucks.



- 104 -
Annex 11
Page 8 of 8
VII, Training in Maritime Environment
25.       Training is required to strengthen environmental capabilities and
raise awareness to environment issues in the port and maritime subsectors. The
Moroccan Interministerial Co'uneil on the Environment, having been made aware of
the conditior, f port operateQns by the accident of the oil tanker "KHARG V,"
is examinii.  vrious areas in which changes need to be made as regards technical
equipment and staff training with a view to building up an efficient national
organization to control marine pollution in the event of another disaster of
similar proportions. DMM has already instituted a series of training co-rses
for 20 managers of Centres de '.ecurite Maritimes Commerce et Peche (Centers for
Commercial and Fisheries Maritime Safety) at similar institutions in France.
26.       Training on a simila; scale will be organized in the port sector so
that marine environment concerns will be taken into account by all the
departments involved.   The project provides support for training of (a) two
engineers of DP and DPCM; (b) three harbor officers and engineers of ODEP; and
(c) 15 engineers or senior personnel on the staff of the regional ports. This
training will take the form of two to three-week courses at specialized agencies
of foreign countries  and ports  in Europe.   This  should be  subsequently
supplemented in Morocco by organizing one or two one-week seminars in order to
make this training available to a wider gro.,,p of middle managers and supervisors
who are more directly involved in port operations, particularly where the
introduction of floating dams and skimmers is concerned.



- 105 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 7
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
I. Introduction
1.        This annex provides background information on the analysis of a key
sub-project in the port investment program, namely the Casablanca container
terminal.   It also presents the analysis of the Agadir cereals silo to be
constructed by ONICL. The analysis of the container terminal in the port of
Casablanca is based on a feasibility study prepared by consultants CATRAM
entitled: Etudes de Factibilitd Liees a la Preparation d'un Eventuel Projet
Portuaire, Janvier 1990. The study was prepared according to a methodology and
terms of reference provided by the Bank and was reviewed in detail by Bank
preparation missions.  The study is available as Project File Document No. B.1.
II. Traffic Forecasts
2.        Based on foreign trade statistics, Table 1 shows details of import and
export traffic growth for major commodity groups during the period 1983-1987.
The traffic data is broken down into bulk and general cargo commodities, the
latter being further broken down into unitizable and non-unitizable traffic.
Compared to recent growth rates of around 61 per year, import traffic is expected
to increase at more modest rates in the future of around 3X per year through the
year 2000. However, unitizable imports, mainly intermediate and consumer type
goods, will probably increase at around 41 per year. Bulk imports, particularly
oil products, coal and culphur, will continue to increase in line with population
growth, namely at about 3X per year. However, imports of cereals are likely to
remain around their current level of 1.5 to 2 million tons annually, any increase
in local production being offset by increases in consumption due to population
growth. Table 2 shows trends in cereal imports, including a breakdown by port
port, from 1978 to 1988.  Exports of general cargo traffic are expected to
increase at about 21 per year while exports of bulk commodities, mainly
phosphates, will remain at their current level.
3.        With a recent growth rate of about 71 per year, unitized cargoes have
increased at a rate which is higher than for general cargo traffic as a whole.
Using 1987 data, a detailed analysis has been made of the degree of penetration
of unitizable cargoes and the prospects for continued increases in the level of
unitization in the future. This level is already very high for Morocco, namely
about 601 for the country as a whole as opposed to about 301 for Turkey and less
than 101 for Algeria. About 651 of unitizable cargoes are unitized in the port
of Casablanca and about 801 in Tangier.  For unitized traffic, two forecast
scenarios have been developed, the first corresponding to continued growth in
container traffic, the second to a slow-down in the rate of containerization



- 106 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 7
while still maintaining growth in roll-on roll-off traffic. The first scenario
would correspond to the development of new container handling possibilities in
the port of Casablanca and under this scenario, unitized traffic would increase
at a rate of about 5% per year through the year 2000. The rate of unitization
for the port of Casablanca would increase from 65% in 1987 to 74% in 1994 and
81% in 2000. In the without project scenario, unitized traffic would increase
only at about 2.5% per year, the level of unitization remaining constant at
about 60-65%. For the port of Tangier, unitized traffic is expected to increase
at 7% per year in the scenario corresponding to the planned improvements to this
port as opposed to increases of about 5.5% per year in the without project
scenario.  Table 3 provides details of the forecast tonnages for the port of
Casablanca, distributed between containers on container vessels, containers on
Ro-Ro vessels and trailers on Ro-Ro vessels. In the with project scenario, the
number of containers handled by the port of Casablanca would increase from 94,000
TEU in 1987 to 190,000 TEU in the year 2000, an increase of just under 6% per
year. In the without project scenario, the number of containers in the year 2000
would only reach 132,000 TEU and there would be a residual volume of unitizable
general cargo handled by conventional means, compared to the with project
scenario, amounting to over 500,000 tons in the year 2000.
III. Casablanca Container Terminal
4.        Benefits fromi the container terminal development in the Port of
Casablanca will accrue to port users primarily through the impact of the project
on cargo handling rates. rhese in turn provid. reductions in: (a) the time ships
spend at berth; (b) ship waiting time; (c) cargo handling costs; and (d) cargo
handling costs in foreign ports. The analysis assumes that the existing terminal
(Mole Tarik) would continue to operate as a container terminal but would
specialize primarily in Mediterranean traffic.   However, a recent 4 hectare
extension of the existing terminal on the adjacent Mole de Commerce will cease
to operate after the new terminal is inaugurated. As Mediterranean traffic is
predominantly Ro-Ro traffic, the existing terminal would essentially become a
Ro-Ro terminal.
Ship Service Time
5.        The main basis of the analysis is to estimate the time taken by ships
to load and unload their cargoes in the "with project" and "without project"
scenarios. Based on an analysis of the likely distribution of traffic among
different types of ships under these two scenarios and the cargo handling rates
associated with each, estimates of ship service time are derived.   These
estimates are then converted into total ship costs based on the hourly operating
cost of vessels expected to handle the forecast traffic. The distribution of
traffic in the without project scenario assumes that shipping lines will be
unable to introduce larger and more efficient vessels, as increasing congestion
would result in unacceptable levels of ship waiting time. However, in the with
project scenario, there would be a gradual shift in traffic distribution towards
larger vessels for both container and Ro-Ro traffic. The following provides a
summary of the ship types, ship costs, forecast traffic distribution and related
cargo handling rates:



- 107 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 7
Traffic Distribution X
ShiR Type    SiR Cost   Cargo handlinz Rate   w/proiect        L w/out project
(US$/day)       (tons/day)
with     without     1994  2000   1994  2000
Container Ships
250 TEU        $5,000       2,300     2,000        45    30     95    90
500 TEU        $6,500       4,000       N.A.       50    60      -      -
700 TEU        $8,000         N.A.    2,000         -     -      5    10
1600 TEU      $12,000       4,500       N.A.        5    10       -     -
RO-RO vessels
103 TEU+30 Tr. $4,500         N.A.    2,200         -     -     50    40
150 TEU+60 Tr. $6,000       2,500     2,200        45    30     50    60
250 TEU+lOOTr. $7,500       2,500       N.A.       50    60       -     -
500 TEU+370Tr.$15,000       2,500       N.A.        5    10       -     -
Conventional
4000tons       $4,500         600 V     600 V    100   100    100   100
1/  increasing to 700 tons per day in 2000.
N.A. not applicable
6.        Based on the above assumptions, estimates of ship service time savings
in 1994 amount to US$ 1,530,000 in 1994 increasing to US$2,717,000 in the year
2000. As Moroccan shipping lines handle about half of the total traffic and as
part of the sea freight rate savings for foreign lines would also ultimately
accrue to Morocco, 75X of total ship service time savings are assumed to accrue
to Morocco.
ShiR Waiting Time
7.        In the without project scenario, priority will be given to container
and Ro-Ro traffic in order to minimize waiting time for this traffic. In order
to achieve this objective, initially two and later three general cargo berths
would need to be assigned to container/Ro-Ro traffic. Ship waiting time would
therefore increase for conventional general cargo traffic. Estimates of ship
waiting tire for this traffic are derived from empirical curves which relate ship
waiting time as a proportion of ship service time, to the berth occupancy rate,
the latter being a function of the number of berths available and the required
ship service time. The following table summarizes these estimates:



- 108 -
Annex 12
Page 4 of 7
Ship Waiting Time
Iraffic   Cargo Rates   Barth Occ.   Occ.Rate     Waiting  timeV
('^00 ton)  (ton/day)       (day)          X
,/o Project
1994      1,923          600    3,200/13berths    821            201
2000      2,485          700    3,500/12berths   >90%            502
wL Project
1994     1,710          600    2,850/15berths    631             OX
2000     1,961          700    2,800/15berths    62X             OX
1/ Based on annual availability of 300 days
1 As a percentage of ship service time
Cargo Handling Costs
8.        Savings in cargo handling costs will follow from increased efficiency
in handling container and Ro-Ro traffic as well as from reduced handling costs
on incremental unitized cargo which would otherwise be handled as break-bulk
cargo.
9.        Container Traffic.  Container handling in the existing terminal (Mole
Tarik) is relatively inefficient in that six or seven movements are required for
each container between the quayside and the storage area and between the storage
area and movement out of the terminal. With the current congestion in the
terminal, a straddle carrier is only able to make 10 movements per hour and the
productivity of each shift is only about 60 containers (600 tons). Based on the
current situation, the handling of 60 containers requires 36 straddle carrier
hours, two gangs per shift (one on board and one in the storage area) and seven
hours of quayside crane. Given the improvements currently underway on the Mole
de Commerce, efficiency should increase marginally, with each straddle carrier
handliiag 60 containers in 30 hours rather than 36 hours. The cost per ton is
estimated as follows:
DP (net of depreciation)
Straddle Carrier                540/hour
Quayside Crane                1,000/hour
Labor  (2 gangs)              6,000/shift
For 60 containers or 600 tons:
DH 16,200 + 7,000 + 6,000 - DH 29,200 i.e. DH 50 per ton.
10.       With the development of the new container terminal, containers will
be handled with straddle carriers working in combination with tractor-trailer
units. Each straddle carrier would be accompanied by two tractor-trailer units.
This will enable straddle carrier movements to be halved (five) for each
container while the output per shift will increase from 600 tons to 900 tons due
to the use of container gantry cranes. Hence, some 90 containers can be handled



- 109 -
Annex 12
Page 5 of 7
with six hours of gantry crane, two gangs per shift and 30 hours of straddle
carrier/tractor-trailer combinations. The cost per ton is estimated as follows:
DH (net of depreciation)
Straddle Carrier/two       640/hour
Tractor-trailer units
Gantry crane             2,000/hour
Labor (2 gangs)          6,000/shift
For 90 containers or 900 tons:
DH 19,200 + 12,000 + 6,000 - DH 37,200 i.e. DH 41 ger ton.
11.       Ro-Ro Traffic.  For Ro-Ro traffic, similar improvements in efficiency
will follow from implementation of the project. At present, cargo handling rates
for Ro-Ro trailers are about 2,200 tons per day for loading/unloading and 900
tons per gang-shift in the storage areas. Based on a gang shift cost of DH
3,000, a tractor operating cost of DH 100 per hour and required inputs of three
tractors, half a gang in the storage area and a full gang on the quayside, for
900 tons of traffic the cost per ton is as follows:
DH 4,500 + 2,100 - DH 6,600 i.e. DH 7.5 per ton
In the with project scenario, Ro-Ro traffic handling rates should
incre.ise to 2,500 tons per day and the productivity per gang-shift should
increase to 1,100 tons. The cost per ton, therefore, is reduced to DH 6 Rer ton.
12.       General Cargo Traffic.  For conventional general cargo traffic, the
current throughput is about 75 cons per gang-shift. Two gangs are required, one
on the quayside and another in the storage areas, three fork-lift trucks and a
6-ton quayside crane. The costs are as follows:
DH (net of depreciation)
Fork-lifts                    70/hour
Crane                        400/hour
Labor (2 gangs)            6,000/shift
For 75 tons, the cost is DH 6,000 + 1,500 + 2,800 - DH 10,300 or DH 140 Rer ton.
However, a cost of DH 120 Der ton has been adopted for the economic analysis,
in order to take into account expected improvements in productivity.
Cargo Handling Costs in Foreign Ports
13.       Through increased unitization of general cargo traffic, the project
will also provide savings in cargo handling costs in foreign ports.   These
savings are based on current tariffs in representative foreign ports, which are
about DH 180 per ton for conventional cargo, and about DH 130 per ton for
container cargo. Only 501 of the corresponding benefits are assumed to accrue
to the Moroccan economy.



- 110 -
Annex 12
Page 6 of 7
Project Costs
14.       The project provides for a phased program of improvements involving
the construction of a 350-meter quay which would be sufficient to accommodate
traffic growth beyond the year 2000. However, the quay could be extended by a
further 150 meters in the longer term. The related earthworks and storage areas
would be implemented in several phases, the first phase involving an area of
about 20 hectares. An extension of the storage areas to provide an additional
10 hectares would be undertaken in 1997. For the economic evaluation, project
costs include 50% of the cost of the road bridge proposed at Gate 4. Table 4
summarizes the civil works costs which amount to DH 353 million net-of-tax.
15.       A container gantry crane has recently been ordered by ODEP for
delivery in 1990 and will be used on the existing terminal. Procurement of a
mobile crane is planned for late 1990 and will be used on the temporary extension
of the existing terminal located on the Mole de Commerce. In the without project
scenario, a further mobile crane would be required in the medium term. With the
proposed new terminal, two container gantry cranes would be procured in 1993 for
operation on the new terminal. The mobile crane would also be allocated to the
new terminal. The net-of-tax unit costs used in the evaluation are DH 40 million
for a gantry crane and DH 16 million for a mobile crane.
16.       Requirements for supporting yard equipment are based on the current
technology used in the Port of Casablanca which involves the use of straddle
carriers. However, in order to provide a more efficient operation, tractor-
trailer units would be used in combination with the straddle carriers. Of the
eight existing straddle carriers, six will be retired in the next two or three
years when nine new units, currently on order, are delivered. A further four
straddle carriers will be required in 1993 providing an overall total of 15 units
which will be adequate to handle traffic through 1997. The straddle carriers
would operate with a total of 19 tractor-trailer units. Because of the generally
inefficient operation on the existing terminal, six new straddle carriers would
be required in the without project scenario in 1993, in addition to the existing
order for nine units. An additional four straddle carriers and eight tractor-
trailer units would be required in 1997 in order to handle traffic up to the year
2000. The net-of-tax unit costs used in the evaluation are DH 4.5 million for
a straddle carrier and DH 300,000 for a tractor-trailer unit.
Cost Benefit Analysis
17.       Table 5 summarizes the calculation of ship costs and cargo handling
costs in 1994 and 2000 while Table 6 shows the 20-year cost-benefit stream.
Residual values have been allowed at the end of the evaluation period on the
basic infrastructure (quay wall, earthworks and dredging).   For equipment,
appropriate renewal costs have been included in the cost stream based on a 10
year life for straddle carriers and tractor-trailer units. Project benefits have
been held constant from the year 2000 onwards which corresponds approximately
to the capacity of the terminal under the initial phase. The estimated ER is
19X. Even with a 20% increase in costs combined with a 20% decrease in benefits,
the ER would still exceed 12%.



- 111 -
Annex 12
Page 7 of 7
IV. Cereals Silo
General
18.       At the present time, only the ports of Casablanca and Safi are
equipped with cereals silos, the respective capaciti-i being 70,000 tons and
24,000 tons.   Casablanca normally handles about 1 million tons of cereals
annually and Safi about 200,000 tons, equivalent respectively to about 50% and
10 of total imports of cereals. The remainder of the traffic - about 800,000
tons - is spread fairly evenly among four other ports, namely Agadir, Tangier,
Jorf Lasfar and Nador.  None of the ports are able to accommodate the large
60,000 ton bulk cereals carriers and hence sea freight rates are high. In fact,
the ports of Casablanca and Safi, although equipped with silos, are only able
to handle ships in the range of 30,000 tons. In addition, port handling costs
are high where no silos exist and there are additional distribution and ship
waiting time costs associated with the concentration of traffic in the port of
Casablanca.
Agadir Silo
19.       The investment in the Agadir cereals silo will provide sea freight
savings of about US$8 per ton on an expected annual throughput which would
gtadually rise to about 500,000 tons, an increase of 280,000 tons over the
current traffic. In addition, handling cost savings of about US$2 per ton would
be achieved on the existing Agadir cereals traffic of 200,000 tons per year as
well as on some 200,000 tons of cereals which would otherwise transit through
Jorf Lasfar. The handling cost savings represent the avoided cost of operating
front-end loaders, each handling rome 30 tons per hour with a direct operating
cost of DH 500 per hour. Finally, in capturing some 180,000 tons of traffic from
Jorf Lasfar and some 100,000 tons from Safi, primarily for distribution in the
southern part of the country, the silo would provide savings in land distribution
costs on at least half of this traffic, estimated at about US$7 per ton. This
is based on an average distance saving of about 150km and a direct truck
operating cost of US 50 cents per ton-km (DH 0.4 per ton-km).  Based on these
benefits and on a silo cost of about DH 90 million net-of-tax, the ER of the
Agadir silo is estimated in the range of 35 to 40%.



- 112  -Annex  12
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Growth of Foreign Trade
('000 tons)
PRODUITS IHPORTES                                  A C SUI  L                                                     GRO
VRACS/HO11OGEN1S             1983       1a      198       1887             2IM      Z:00           1983-87  1988-93-19-94-2000
VRACS/HOMLGENES
BLE / MAIS                1858      2500     2042      1475     2085              2192     2350             2.68      1,00      1.00
SOUPRE                    1349      1418      1469     1672     2003              2100     2100            11.61      0.00     0.00
PDT ENERGETIQUES          4623      4955     5684      5542     6108              7203     8970             7.21      3.00     3.00
H9ILES VEGETALES           165       172      212       238       184              220      270             2.78      3.00      3.00
SUCRES                     248       283      238       297       297              365      464             4.61      3.50      3.50
ENGRAIS                    285       367      338       463       348              440      579             5.12      4.00     4.00
S/TOTAL VRACS           8528      9785    9003       9687    11095            12610    14733              6.80      2.63     2.25
DIVERS
BATEAUX                      4        24        32       25        16               16       18             0.00      0.00     0.00
DIV ROULARTS                24        14       20        22        25               27       30             1.03      1.00     2.00
VEHICULES TOURISME          12                   0 _ 9              9               10        J            -6.94      1.00     2.00
S/TOTAL ROULANT           36        23       29        32        34               37       41            -1.42      1.00     2.00
BOIS GRUMES                105       128      123       119       160              214      230            11.10      5.00      1.00
FER / RAILS                385       317       128       80        96               06       96           -29.34      0.00     0.00
TOLES/FEUILLARDS           130       146      160       137       161              204      268             5.49      4.00     4.00
PATE A PAPIER               28        23       24        25        23               24       28            -4.80      1.00     2.00
LIANTS/CIMENTS              32        30       35        38        40               54       71             5.74      5.00     4.00
PROD CHINIQUES             110       113      133       130       149                                       7.88
BILLETTES                  194       356      _J7       413       501              634      834            26.80      4.00     4.00
S/TOT NON UNITARISABLE    984       1113     1081       942      1130             1226     1527             3.52      1.37     3.18
BOIS                       212       265      246       229       367              492      692            14.71      5.00     5.00
PDTS LAITIERS               30        23       24        28        27               30       37            -2.60      2.00     3.00
CAPE/THE/TABAC              38        47        42       49        54               64       79             9.18      3.00     3.00
AUTRES ALIMENTS            109       165       124      190       186              235      310            14.29      4.00     4.00
GRAINES/FRUITS              35        30        51       18        39               47       57             2.74      3.00     3.00
LAINE/COTON/FIMRES          35        31        34       38        43              i58       81             5.28      5.00     5.00
PDTS BAUTS VEGETAUJX        66        65       67        75        80              101      133             4.93      4.00     4.00
FIBRES SYNTHETIQUES         25        25       26        26        30               40       53             4.66      5.00     4.00
DIV.BRUTS/MINERALE          79        74        80       76        81              110      135             0.63      3.00     3.00
PDTS CHIMIQUES             110       113      133       130       149              189      232             7.88      4.00     3.00
HAT. PLASTIQUES             61        58        73       76        81              115      162             7.35      6.00     5.00
PAPIER/CARTONS              60        84       84        78        94              112      138            11.88      3.00     3.00
FILS/FIBRES                 16        18       20        20        19               25       36             4.39      5.00     5.00
PRDTS EQUIPMEMENT          109       132      198        90        80               90      103            -7.44      2.00     2.00
PDTS FINlS CONSOMMABLES    48         51       56        57        79              106      149            13.27      5.00     5.00
f0wES TERRE                 27        25       37      _32         28               30      __2             0.01      1.00     1.00
S/TOT UNITARISABLE        1060      1206     1295      1212      1437             1844     2429             7.90      4.11     4.02
TOTAL DIVERS              2084      2366     2437      2211     2617              3123     4013             5.75      3.10     3.65
TOTAL GENERAL            10612    12151    12420    11898    13712               15717    18790             6.62      2.30     2.54
PRODUITS EXPORTES
VRACS
PHOSPHATES               13976    14951    14790    13696    13060              13060    13060             -1.68      0.00     0.00
AUTRES PDTS MINERAUX      1067      1360      1265     1016      1058             1123     1204            -0.21      1.00     1.00
ENGRAJS                    807       545      776       702       705              705      705            -3.32      0.00     0.00
PLOMB                       56        72       85        60        35               35       35           -11.78      0.00     0.00
ACIDE PHOSPHORIQUE         871      1088       027     1068      1409             1409     1983            12.78      0.00     5.00
PDTS ENERG/LUBRIFIANTS    324        396      362       373       402              539      758             5.54      5.00     5.00
S/TOT VRh._              17101    18412    18205    16915    16669               16871    17745            -0.64      0.20     0.72
AGRUIMESPRIMEURS           662       670      717       757       762              858      986             3.58      2.00     2.00
DIVERS
PATE / PAPIER               63        67       61                  SI 853                                   6.48      5.00     5.00
S/TOT NON UNITARISABLE      63        67        61       78        81              109      153             6.48      5.00     5.00
DEI PDTS DIVERS             46        41        43       47        67              g0       126             9.86      5.00     5.00
LEGUMES SECS                10        12        17       32        14               17       21             8.78      3.00     3.00
PDTS ALIMENTAIRES          539       403      411       396      379               379      379            -8.43      0.00     0.00
PROD BRUST  AN/VEGE         63        44        52       52        52               52       52            -4.68      0.00     0.00
PRDTS FINIS EQUIR4          35         5         7       40        25               25       25            -8.07      0.00     0.00
POTS FINIS CONS             37        38       43        47        74                       140            18.92      5.00     5.00
S/TOT UtITARISABLE         i3i       633      573       614       611              662      743            -4.35      1.34     1.66
S/TOT DIVERS               793       700      634       692       692              771      896            -3.35      1.80     2.17
TOTAL GENERAL            18556    19782    19556    18364    18123               18500    19627            -0.59      0.34     0.85
Source: Office des Changes and mission estimates



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
CEREALS TRAFFIC BY PORT: 1978-88 L/
(tons)
Y13ARS              CASAB CNA        muF    JOBP T.SF         TAGEG       NADR         AGADIR 
1978                1,686,728     222,820       -            91,324      -            90,652     2,091,524
1979                1,606,440     234,741       -           118,565      -            90,456     2,050,202
1980                1,733,896     240,570       -           118,787      -            96,573     2,189,826
1981                2,727,489     352,574       -           215,771      52,845      136,657     3,485,336
1982                1,599,501     291,724       92,212      157,772     113,777       90,607     2,345,593
1983                1,021,124     205,326      299,083      204,650     125,280      103,549     1,959,012
1984                1,439,256     316,704      450,417      197,060     255,256      201,788     2,860,481    H
1985                1,279,650     214,561       93,373      215,339     189,768      178,424     2,171,115    '
1986                  984,889     137,955      116,982      141,297     172,183      186,465     1,739,771
1987                1,199,567     265,479      190,457      206,989     226,659      215,263     2,304,414
1988                  997,939     193,432      127,441      176,061     283,867      220,987     1,999,727
Average
2982-88               1,217,000      232,000     196,000      186,000     195,000      171,000      2,197,000
/  Figures are slightly higher than Foreign Trade Statistics due to inclusion of coastal traffic.
Source: ODEP



- 114 -
Annex 12
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFT APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Forecast of Unitized Traffic: Casablanca
('000 tons)
1987      1994      2000 Annual Rate
A. Without Proiect
Total Unitized Traffic           1,007     1,230     1,400       2.6X
of which Container Ships           695       849       966       2.6X
Ro-Ro Containers         141       172        196      2.6X
Ro-Ro Trailers           171       209        238      2.61
Conventional Traffic Differential   -        213        524
Number of Containers Full       64,293    78,531    89,385       2.6X
Empty     29,930    36,392    41,662       2.6X
Number of Trailers Full          9,511    11,617    13,222       2.6X
Empty          601       728    14,058       2.6X
Total Number of Containers      94,223   114,923   132,047       2.61
Total Number of Trailers        10,111    12,343    14,058       2.61
B. With Proiect
Total Unitized Traffic           1,007     1,443     1,924       5.1%
of which Container Ships           695     1,039     1,443       5.81
Ro-Ro Containers         141       202        250      4.51
Ro-Ro Trailers           171       202        231      2.31
Number of Containers Full       64,293    95,460   130,240       5.61
Empty     29,930    44,230    60,705       5.61
Number of Trailers Full          9,511    11,223    12,827       2.3X
Empty          601       701        811      2.31
Total Number of Containers      94,223   139,698   190,945       5.61
Total Number of Trailers        10,111    11,925    13,638       2.31



- 115                         A
Table 4
KINGDON OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Casablanca Container Terminal: Civil Works Costs - Phase 1
Infrastructure      Units     Unit Cost(DH)  Quantities      Total costs
(DH '000)
Mobilization                   10,000,000              1      10,000
Removal of wreck      -        20,000,000              1      20,000
Dredging
- normal            m3           30           875,000       26,250
- rock              m3          600            55,000       33,000
Earthworks            m3            30         4,800,000     144,000
Quaywall-12 m.   linear meter   140,000              350      49,000
Ro-Ro Ramp            -       12,000,000               1      12,000
Access roads          -       13,350,000               1      13,350
Rail Access           -       22,000,000               1      22,000
Protection            -       30,000,000               1      30.000
Sub-Total Infrastructure                                     359,600
SuDerstructure
Paving              m2               300         220,000      66,000
Drainage    linear meter           1,200           2,000       2,400
Water       linear meter              900          4,000       3,600
Electricity linear meter           2,250           1,600       3,600
Buildings           m2             1,500             600         900
C.F.S Station       m2             1,100          16,000      17,600
Container shed      m2             1,000          10,000      10,000
Enclosure   linear meter           1,000           2,000       2.000
Sub-total Superstructure                                     106,000
Total Civil Works                                            465.60
Source: CATRAM Consultants



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Casablanca Container Terminal: Estimates of Ship Costs
and Cargo Handling Costs: 1994 and 2000
(US$ '000)
With Project                 Without Project
1994         2122o4                       20
Total Unitized Traffic (O0Otons)          1,443        1,924             1,230       1,400
- Containers                            1,039       1,443                849         966
- Containers on Ro-Ro                     202         250                172         196                      I.A
- Ro-Ro Trailers                          202          231               209         238
Conventional General Cargo (000tons)      1,710        1,961             1,923       2,485
Ship Service Time                        15,988       16,840            17,518      19,557
Ship Waiting Time (general cargo)              -           -             2,885       7,990
Additional Cargo Handling Foreign Ports 1/                 *             1,331       3,275
Cargo Handling Casablanca:
- Containers                           5,325        7,395             5,304       6,038
- Container on Ro-Ro                     152          188               161         184
- Ro-Ro Trailers                         152          173               196         223
- General Cargo                             -           -             3,195       7,860
tn
Calculated on incremental unitized cargo otherwise handled as conventional general cargo in without
project scenario, namely 213,000 tons in 1984 and 524,000 tons in 1994.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Casablanca Container Terminal: Cost-Benefit Analysis
(US$ '000)
1994  2000         1991   1992      1993  1994 1905 1096  1997  1998  1909  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011 2012   2013
Ship Service     1530  2717   752                        1148 1296 1444  1593  1741  1889  2038  2038  2038  2038  2038  2038  2038  2038  2038  2038  2038  2038  2038   2038
Ship Wa.t1*s     2885  7990   752                        2164 2564 3039  3601  4267  5057  5993    93  5993  5993  5993  5993  53  5993  5993  5993  5993  5993  5993   5993
Cargo Toreipn    1331  3275   502                         866  777  899  1044  1213  1410  1638  1638  1638  1638  1638  1638  1838  1638  1638  1638  1638  1638  1638   1638
CaZro Camabluaoa 3227  6549  1002                        3227 3782 4336  4889  5442  5995  6549  6549  6549  6549  6549  6549  654   9  6549  8549  6549  6549  6549  6549   6549
7205 8419 9718 11127 12663 14351 16216 16218 16218 16218 16218 16218 16218 16218 16218 16218 16218 16218 16218  16218
gum:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f-
Infrastructure
with project                       1698S  14307  11177    -    -    -  3000                    -     -      -           -     -      -           -     -            -     - -17041
witbout pSojeot                         -      -   178    -    -    -       -      -     -     -     -      -     -     -     -      -     -     -     -      -     -     -      -
2qupenmt:
with project                        6647       -  12200    -    -    -  3177       -              4785      -  2788     -            -  3177     -     -         4765     -   2788
witbout project                     6647       -   3177    -    -    -  317       -      -        4765      -  3177           -      -  3277     -      -     -  4765     -   3177
Not Costs                           16986  14307  18412    -           -  3000      -     -           -      -  -389     -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     - -17430
vat Denefits                       -16988 -14307 -18412 7205 8419 9718  8127 12663 14351 16218 16218 16218 16607 16218 16218 16218 16218 16218 16218 26216 16218 16218  33648
Rot Present Value at 15S - USS13 Million
UR - 192



- 118 -
AnneU 13
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ORT NECTOR PROJECT
Past Financial Statements
1.        This Annex gives ODEP's detailed financial statements for the period
1985-1989.   The financial projections for the period 1990-1995 are given in
Annex 14 together with the assumptions made for presenting the tables and
establishing the financial projections.
Income Statements
2.        Despite ODEP's inheritance of a quite difficult financial situation
from the former RAPC, it has performed satisfactorily during the period 1985-
1989.
3.        Total operating revenues net of taxes increased from DH 530 million
in 1985 to DH 807 million in 1989, reflecting an increase of about 7% in traffic
and an increase of about 5% in tariffs in 1987.  About 92% of the revenues
consist of cargo h.ndling, port dues and wharfage, the remaining 8% consist of
minor services.
4.        Total  operating  expenses  including  maintenance  salaries  and
,depreciation increased from DH 504 million in 1985 to DH 717 million in 1989,
a 42X increase over the period 1985-1989. Staff efficiency improved during the
same period. While salaries represent the major operating expense along with
maintenance and depreciation, they have declined from about 34% to 30% of
revenues. Depreciation is in line with the current assets structure.
5.        Reflecting the overall operation performance the working ratio went
down from 69% to 67% and the net operating income over revenues had been kept
at about 7%.
Balance Sheets and Sources and ApDlication of Funds
6.        The financial structure of ODEP has been sound during the period.
ODEP has generated sufficient cash to cover its debt service and its increase
in working capital. The net cash generation covered about 36% of the total
capital expenditure over the period 1985-1989. The Balance Sheets analysis shows
that ODEP has fulfilled its financial covenants in terms of rate of return on
net fixed assets and debt service coverage which were 8.8% and 4.0 respectively
in 1989 compared to targetsi of 7.5% and 1.4 respectively. In aedition, ODEP has
improved its account receivable which decreased from 112 to 54 days of billing
in 1989, and had kept its debt ratio at about 32%.



- 119 -
Anne:x 13
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Income Statements (Millions DH)
198!        1°,86         1987          1988         1989
.         --...........actual ............................ )
REVENUES
Handlirng - NT -                         373.55       384.86        425.36        487.23        508.9?
Services to Ships - NT                    35.24        22.37         22.55         25.08         26.68
Fish Market - HT -                        12.59        14.50         17.92         21.51         23.23
Ship-Yard - HT -                           4.38         4.63          4.34          5.49          5.76
Wharfage (use of infrastructure) - HT -  100.99       151.99        167.71        217.17        222.59
Water & Electricity - HT -                3.044         7.02         13.86         17.95         17.54
Taxes                                     60.24        99.22        120.52        141.23        150.27
--  -        -- --         .. ..        .....     .    ._ . _._
TOTAL REVENUES                     590.03       684.59        772.26        915.66        957.13
WORKING EXPENSES
Inventory Increases (decreases)           -1.48        -3.10         -6.40         -9.,9         -6.10
Naterials & Maintenance                   40.88        54.31         37.04         46.25         45.99
External Work, Supply, Services          114.12       105.70        106.17        105.94        129.32
Transport & Traveling                       1.20        2.04          2.34          1.76          3.24
Administrative Expenses                    4.70         4.96          9.29         16.21         16.56
Interests & Commissions Current Acc.       1.25         2.41          2.12          2.68          0.64
Property Fees (royalty)                   40.48        40.23         44.60         42.42         42.42
sotal Working Expenses               201.15       206.55        195.16        205.47        232.07
Added Value                          388.88       478.04        577.10        710.19        725.06
wages                                      180.86      207.52        210.41        233.27        245.79
Taxes                                      25.19       109.73        131.98        153.37        16.44
. ._ -- --             -- --         .. ..         ......
Operat. inc. before Dep.              182.83      160.79        234.71        323.55        314.83
Depreciation                               100.08       113.26       154.25        185.68        182.91
Provisions                                 22.09        13.19         16.72         57.82         56.58
~~~~_. _.....  ......  ------        ...... . .. ... .....
Operating Income                      60.66        34.34         63.74         80.05         75.34
Interest                                  11.21        20.35         33.84         26.65         35.68
Interest Income                           15.00        13.00         14.33         13.88         21.46
.........    ------       .  ........   ......        ...... ....... 
Net Operating Income                  64.45        26.99         U.23          67.28         61.12
Non Operating Profits                      14.00        55.68         37.62         50.79         17.22
Non Operating Losses                       72.24        72.86         75.24         88.65         93.92
_ _ _ _ ......            ......         ----         ......
Net Income before Taxes                6.21         9.81          6.61         29.42        -15.58
Income Taxes                                2.97         7.76          5.55         10.27         15.80
-- -_ .. ..              _._._._ ... .
Net Income after Taxes                 3.24         2.05          1.06         19.15        -31.38
Retained Earnings                           3.24         5.29          6.35         25.50         -5.88
RATIOS
Working Ratio                (X)          69.01        76.51         69.61         64.66         67.11
Operating Ratio              (X)          89.72        94.98         91.75         91.26         92.13
Net Income/Revenues          (Z)           0.55         0.30          0.14          2.09         -3.28
Operating Income/Revenues     (X)         10.28         5.02          8.25          8.74          7.87
Average Depreciation         (X)          15.68        16.62         12.80         13.77         11.41



- 120 -
Annex 13
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Balance Sheet (Millions DH)
im            1986          198        1988         989
(------actual- ...................-                         )
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
rganrization Expenses                  8.54          16.48          0.00       0.00
Gross Fixed Assets                   638.14         681.66        1204.84    1348.32      1603.07
Less: Accumlated Depreciation         99.82         208.64        320.29     489.55       663.55
Net Fixed Assets In Operation     546.86         489.50         884.55     858.77      939.52
Assets under Construction               90.01         220.95         91.88      138.32       171.37
Other Assets                            30.11          39.50        228.25      333.04      449.75
......       ......         ----       ..  ...      .. ..
Total Met Fixed Assets            666.98         749.95        1204.68    1330.13      1560.64
Current Assets
Inventories                           14.35          17.46         19.45      32.25        39.29
Receivables                          180.46         207.39        213.81      134.65      141.73
Other Receivables                    285.11         254.42         127.32     281.62      266.23
Cash                                 128.73         112.45         51.17      37.76        80.00
~~~~.......             .......    ----          .... ...
Total Current Assets Less Cash    479.92         479.27         360.58     448.52       47.25
Totat Current Assets              608.65         591.72         411.75     486.28      527.25
......  .   .......       ....... ..------..       ....... . .......... ..
TOTAL ASSETS                     1275.63        1341.67        1616.43    1816.41     2087.89
fl...         ur..           u..=       su..         ..m
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
Capital (transfer/RAPC)              U7.06          451.4         451.15      451.15      522.21
doverrment Contribution              150.82         150.82         149.93     149.58      149.58
Retained Earning                       3.25           5.29          6.35       25.51       -5.88
-- -- --- -- -.. .....             -- - -    .    - - -
Total Equity                      601.13         607.57         607.43     626.24      665.91
RESERVES                               129.33         179.25        225.18      252.25      291.87
Long Teom Debt
Previous Loans                       109.56          88.07        239.85      376.19      413.35
New Loans                             27.95                        47.34
Other Loans                            5.79           5.79          5.79        5.87
Total Lon Term Debt               143.30          93.86         292.98     382.06      413.35
Current Liabilities
Suppliers                             43.70          89.54         95.36       67.07       109.98
Payable                                0.75           0.91          1.06        3.13
Other Payable                         88.47         109.30         112.75     111.68      241.54
Other Liabilities                    172.05         172.40         122.32     175.66       133.95
Property Fees                          0.00          60.4          105.06     147.48       187.90
Long Term Naturities                  96.90          28.38         29.65      35.12        41.47
Overdraft                              0.00           0.00         24.64       15.72         1.92
Total Current Liabilities         401.87         460.99        49Q.e4      555.86       716.76
.   .   .    .   ............   _.... . - - - -  .... .
TOTAL EWUITY & LIABILITIES       1275.63        1341.67        If i6.43    1816.41     2087.89
RATIOS
Current Ratio                          1.51           1.28          0.84        0.87        0.75
Accotmt Receivable (on day of billing) 111.63       110.57         101.05      53.67        54.05
Debt/Debt & Equity             (X)   24.75           13.45         27.93       32.20       32.20
Total Fixed Aets/Total Debt   (2)  133.56           162.68         165.44     158.50       157.01
Rate of Returm                 (M)   13.30           12.10          11.30      10.60        8.84
Debt/Equity                    (2)   32.88           15.54         38.75       47.49        47.49



- 121 -
Annex13
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Sources & Apolications of Funds - (Millions DH)
198          12ffi          1987          1988           1989
(       ................-actual---------------.          -----)
SOURCES
Income before Interest                    17.42         30.16         40.45         56.07         20.10
Plus Depreciation                        100.08        113.26        154.25         185.68        182.91
Ninus Incore Taxes                        -2.97         -7.76         -5.55         -10.27        -15.80
Ninus Dividends                            0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
Internat Cash Generation          114.53        135.66        189.15        231.48        187.21
Less Debt Service
Amortization                         11.30         36.60         20.09         29.65          33.95
Interest                                  11.21         20.35         33.84         26.65         35.68
increase (decrease) in Working Capital   174.95       -128.29       -147.27         28.39        -15S.82
Net Internal Cash Generation      -82.93        207.00        282.49        146.79         273.40
Equity Variation                        72.21          54.32         44.73         26.72         110.68
Borrowings                              240.20          0.00        161.15        118.73          71.52
other Sources                            11.30        -86.20         58.06          5.47
TOTAL SOURCES                             895.78        175.12        546.43        297.71         455.60
APPLICATIONS
Investments                             766.80        191.79        423.80        308.58        287.81
Others Assets Variation                   0.26        183.92          2.83         125.55
------  ~~.. ...    .....          ....          .. ....
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                767.06        191.79        607.72        311.41        413.35
Cash Increas Decrease                    128.7Z        -16.67        -61.29         -13.70         42.24
Cash Beginning of Year                     0.00        128.73        112.45         51.17          37.76
Cash End of Year                         128.73        112.45         51.17         37.76          80.00
RATIOS
Debt Service Coverag                      -1.06          4.89          S.98           2.64          4.14
Capital Expenditure X Net Internal Sources
Annual                               -10.81        107.93         66.66         47.57          66.14
Three-year average                   -25.95         39.64         76.29         37.38          90.60



- 122 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
AssuMDtions and Financial Projections
Inflation
1.        It is assumed that the annual local inflation related to the increase
in consumer prices will be 6.2X in 1990, 5.61 in 1991, 5.4X in 1992, 4.4X in
1993, 4.91 in 1994 and 5.51 in 1995.   Annual foreign price increases are
estimated at 4.11 in 1990, 5.31 in 1991, 5.4X in 1992, 5.41 in 1993, 5.21 in 1994
and 5.31 in 1995. The exchange rate in December 1989 was about DH 8.25 per US
Dollar, It is expected that the exchange rate will remain constant thereafter.
Financial Forecasts
2.        ODEP's main financial statements, Income Statements, Balance Sheets,
Sources and Application of Funds, global sector accounts are summarized in
Tables 5.1 to 5.6 and Table 5.9 in Chapter 5. Detailed statements are included
in this Annex (Tables 1 to 3). Additional tables regarding tariffs, traffic
forecasts, investment plan, financing plan, depreciation, fixed assets valuation
and calculation of port fee are available in the Project File. Summary financial
projections on the proposed new facilities (Casablanca container terminal and
Jorf Lasfar coal handling facility) are presented in Tables 5.7 and 5.8 in
Chapter 5. Details are given in the present Annex (Tables 4 and 5).
Traffic Progections
3.        Traffic data used in financial analysis are derived from the CATRAM
feasibility study (Project File Document No. B.1). General cargo traffic is
estimated to inc.rease by about 31 per year through the year 2000. Unitized goods
are forecast to increase by about 5X per year for the same period. Phosphate
traffic is kept at its 1987 level from 1989 to 1991 and would increase by 11
thereafter.
Revenues
4.        ODEP's revenues are forecast on the basis of the proposed new tariff
structure to be implemented from beginning of 1991 for port dues on ships and
from March 1991 for containers handling charges. Revenues related to fishing
activities in ports transferred recently to ODEP, lease of coal handling
facilities at Jorf Lasfar and those related to the lease of facilities for
pleasure craft are not included in the financial forecasts. The related revenues
would be minor part of ODEP's activity and the related cost recovery policy has



- 123 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
not yet been defined.   ODEP will carry out a cost recovery study for these
activities as part of its Development Program.
Operational ExRenses
5.        Materials and external services represent respectively about 3X and
61 of gross fixed assets in operation.   Maintenance cost of the existing
facilities is estimated at 11 of their current value. Transport expenses are
projected to increase at 31 per year and administrative expenses at 21 per year.
Wages increase is estimated at annual inflation rate. It is assumed that the
number of employees will decrease by about 910 staff over five years, new
recruitment being limited to management staff.
Fee to be Paid by ODEP to the Government
6.        ODEP will pay the Government a fee based on its use of infrastructure
which will remain in the public domain. Government assets were revalued for fee
calculation in 1985.  Investments carried out by ODEP to rehabilitate and/or
extend public property have been deducted from total public property. The net
value of these assets at end-1991 are assumed to be transferred to ODEP and will
be maintained and depreciated accordingly. The part of the infrastructure costs
apportioned to ODEP is assumed to be equivalent to 151 of the Government gross
fixed assets. The aggregate amount of port fees payable to the Government will
be: 5% of the net revalued Government assets apportioned to ODEP, 1.25X of the
total government gross fixed assets apportioned to ODEP and annual depreciation
of the said assets.  The level of the fee enables the cost of dredging and
maintenance work on breakwaters undertaken by the Government to be adequately
covered.
Bad Debt
7.        A provision for doubtful debts of 51 of total revenues has been used
over the 1990-1995 period.
DeRreciation
8.        ODEP's average depreciation rate is high. It reflects fixed assets
historically composed mainly of equipment. This average is expected to decrease
from 12% to 71 with the investments entering in operation and the transfer of
public property to ODEP.
Interest
9.        New investments are assumed to be financed by loans at an interest
rate of about 7.51 per year with a repayment period of 20 years including a grace
period of five years. Financing will cover about 451 of the total investment
program.



- 124 -
&Aex 14
Page 3 of 3
Balance Sheets
10.       Inventories are assumed to be equal to 501 or six months of materials
expenses and supplies from lQ90 to 1992 and will decrease to three months
thereafter. Account receivables are assumed reduced from 4.5 months of billing
in 1988 to 2.5 months in 1990 and forty five days by the end of the period. This
assumes improvements in the billing and collection system. Other receivables
are forecast to amount to approximately 10X of operational expenses and
investments from 1990 to 1992 and 5 thereafter. Suppliers are assumed at two
months of investment and operating expenses in 1990 decreasing to one month in
1993. Other payables are assumed to be one month of operating expenses and 51
of the total investment and operating expenses after adjustment of previous RAPC
accounts and unpaid taxes and penalties due to Government.
A&ssets and Debt Revaluation
11.       Revaluation methods based on local inflation rate and or variation in
exchange rates to update the value of fixed assets has been done annually to
calculate the rate of return on net fixed assets in operation. ODEP has agreed
to carry out a formal inventory and an informal revaluation every year in order
to determine tariff adjustments to meet the rate of return and debt service
requirements. Foreign debt will be revalued in line with the expected changes
in the US Dollar-Dirham exchange rate.
Sensitivity Analysis
12.       A sensitivity analysis to test the financial objectives indicates that
rates of return and debt service coverage ratios are sensitive to changes in
revenues as shown Table 6 of this Annex. Traffic developments and their impact
on revenues will therefore be closely monitored during project implementatior.
with a view to maintaining an appropriate financial rate of return and debt
service coverage ratio.



- 125 -
AnnexA14
Table 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STA=F APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Income Statements (Millions DHI
MD        19I   1299        1993    1°4   1995
estim. (.................forecast-------------------)
REVENUES
HNtdling - NT -                            520.14   576.04  628.32   703.72   727.24   753.38
Services to Ships - NT -                    26.09    26.62   28.61    29.19    29.77    30.36
Fish Narket - HT -                          22.82    23.62   25.76    26.67    27.60    28.57
Ship-Yard - HT -                             5.63     6.75    7.12      7.12     7.12     7.12
Wharfage & Port Dues - Kr -                 224.54   254.51  282.67   293.27   305.16   317.94
Water & Electricity - NT -                  18.42    19.34   20.30    21.32    22.39    23.51
Taxes                                      151.26   167.77  183.66   200.04   207.07   214.76
TOTAL REVENUES                         968.90  1074.64 1176.45  1281.32  1326.34  1375.64
WORKING EXPENSES
Inventory Increases (decreases)             -9.66     1.37    4.26   -18.11      0.71     0.46
Materials & Maintenance                     59.2S    61.99   70.50    68.57    71.39    73.25
Extermal Work, Supply, Services            118.50   123.98  141.01   137.14   142.79   146.49
Transport & Traveling                        3.34     3.44    3.54      3.65     3.76     3.87
Administrative Expenses                     19.38    21.49   23.53    25.63    26.53    27.51
Interests & Comissions Current Acc.          0.67     0.71    0.74      0.78     0.82     0.86
Property Fees (royalty)                     42.40    71.14   76.12    81.35    85.09    89.27
Total Working Expeses                   233.88   284.11  319.70   299.00   331.07   341.71
Added Value                             735.02   790.53  856.75   982.32   995.26  1033.93
Wages                                       250.85   254.16  2S6.56   256.02   256.16   257.17
Taxes                                        1Z6    185.91  203.5   2216    229.45   237.98
Operating Income before Deprec.         316.55   350.46  396.67   504.63   509.65   S38.78
Depreciation                                136.34   153.65  178.67   204.64   234.52   263.89
Provisions                                   48.A     53.3   58.8Z    640        66.32    68.78
Operating Income                        131.?7   143.08  159.18   235.92   208.81   206.11
Interest                                    22.30    22.34   22.95    29.60    46.58    69.86
Interest Inco1 e                             7.18     2.74    0.85      1.53     4.59     4.13
Net operating Income                    116.66   123.48  137.08   207.86   166.83   140.37
mon Operating Profits                         4.19     6.41    6.92      6.68     6.43     6.19
Non Operating Losses                         23.48    00.00   00.00    00.00    00.00    43.00
Net Incare before Taxes                 97.36   129.89  14.00   214.53   173.26   103.56
Income Taxes                                 3894    51.96   57.60    85.81    69.31    41.42
NMt Inceme after Taxes                   58.42    77.93   86.40   128.72   103.96    62.14
Dividends                                             31.17   34.56    51.49    41.58    24.85
Retained Earnings                            52.54    99.30  151.14   228.37   290.75   328.03
RATIOS
Working Ratio                (X)             67.33    67.39   66.28    60.62    61.57    60.83
Operating Ratio             (X)              86.40    86.69   86.47    81.59    84.26    85.02
Net Income/Revenaes         (X)               6.03     7.25    7.34    10.05      7.84     4.52
Operating Income/Revenues    (X)             13.60    13.31   13.53    18.41    15.74    14.98
Average Depreciation        (X)               7.98     8.07    7.49      7.31     7.09     6.80



- 126
Annex 14
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Balance Sheet (Millions DH)
19°      1991   1992      1993      1994      1995
estim.  t.---------------forecast----------       )
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                         1707.88  1903.93 2383.85  2799.23  3308.76  3880.05
Less: Accumulated Depreciation             79.8_9  953.5  t11L21  1336.85  1571.37  1835.26
Net Fixed Assets in Operation         908.00   950.39 1251.64  1462.38  1737.39  2044.79
Assets under Construction                  266.46   409.46  633.00   748.41   787.20   475.56
Other Assets                               287.36   248.14  204.16   173.53   169.45   163.09
Total Net Fixed Assets              1461.82  1607.99 2088.80  2384.32  2694.04  2683.44
Current Assets
inventories                                 29.63    30.99   35.25    17.14    17.85    18.31
Receivables                                201.85   223.88  196.07   213.55   165.99   171.95
Other Receivables                           163.44   194.80  222.82   121.56   126.56   142.45
Cash                                        54.76    16.94   30.59    91.88    82.59    62.73
Total Current Assets Less Cash      394.92   449.67  454.15   352.26   310.20   332.71
Total Current Assets                449.68   466.61   .4        414   392.79   395.45
TOTAL ASSETS                       1911.50  2074.61   7      2828.4   3         3078 88
EQUITY & LIASILITIES
Capital (transfer/RAPC)                    522.21   522.21  522.21   522.21   522.21   522.21
Gover nmt Contribution                      149.58   149.58  391.99   391.99   391.99   391.99
Retainmd Earning                             2.L4      .    151.14   28.37   290.75   328.03
Total Equity                      724.33   771.09 1065.34  1142.58  1204.95  1242.23
RESERVES                                    257.25   253.38  258.53   263.91   268.67   276.98
Lon Term Debt
Previous loans                             374.45   342.63  314.97   288.74   266.82   248.19
New loans                                   113.03   283.75  449.63   651.48   805.57   869.92
Other Loans
Total Long Term Debt             487.48   626.38  764.60   940.22  1072.39  1118.11
Current Liabilities
Suppiers                                    81.06   117.11  152.35   109.60   114.56    64.96
Payable
Other payable                               96.02   112.03  125.19   128.19   134.66   123.68
Other liabilities                            59.34    79.49   91.59   124.20   109.29    69.73
Property fees                               161.04    71.14   76.12    81.35    85.09    89.27
Long term maturities                        44.99    43.99   39.83    38.40    97.22    93.93
overdraft                                    0.00      0.00    0.00     °-°°   -  0°      0.00
Total Current Liabilities       442.45   423.76  485.07   481.74   540.81   441.56
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES     1LS.5   2074.61 2s7.55       8      3        3078.88
RATIOS
Current Ratio                                1.02      1.10    1.00     0.92     0.73     0.90
Account Receivable (on day of billing)      76.04    76.04   60.83    60.83    45.63    45.63
Debt/Debt & Equity             (X)          35.17    39.55   37.80    41.03    44.25    44.38
Total Fixed Assets/Totat Debt   (M)         212.31   220.29  241.41   249.49   253.90   279.26
Rate of Return                 CX)           9.55    10.37   10.04    11.64      9.43     8.15
Debt/Equity                   (t)           54.25    65.44   60.76    69.58    79.37    79.78



- 127 -
Annex 14
Table 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Sources & Applications of Funds  - (Millions DHM
1         IM 0       M        1293    199       199
estim. (  -*---------forecast--------------------)
SOURCES
Income before Interest                         119.66   152123  166.95   244.13   219.84   173.43
Plus Depreciation                              136.34   153.65  178.67   204.64   234.52   263.89
Hinus Income Taxes                             -38.94   -51.96  -57.60   -85.81    -69.31   -41.42
Minus Dividends                                  0.00    -31.17  -34.56   -51.49   -41.58   -24.85
Internal Cash Generation                217.05   222.75  253.46   311.47   343.47   371.04
Less Debt Service
Amortization                               41.47    44.99   43.9        39.83    38.40    97.22
Interest                                   41.43    51.89   59.60    67.70    79.46    87.55
Increase (decrease)
in Working Capital                           2.50    T2.45   -61.00  -100.00   -42.30   118.47
Net Internal Cash Generation            -91.34    53.43  210.87   303.94   267.91    67.79
Equity Variation                               -34.62    -3.86  247.56        5.37      4.77      8.30
Borrowings                                     119.11    182.89  178.05   214.03   229.39   139.65
TOTAL SWRCES                                -6.86   232.46  636.49   523.34   502.07   215.74
APPLICATIONS
Assets Takeover                                                  242.41
Investments                                   180.77   309.49  424.40   492.68   515.43   241.96
Other Assets Variations                      -162.39   -39.22  -43.98   -30.63    -4.08    -6.36
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                       18.38   270.28  622.83   462.05   511.36   235.60
Cash Increase Decrease                         -25.24   -37.82   13.65    61.29    -9.29   -19.86
Cash Beinning of Year                           80.00    54.76   16.94    30.59    91.88    82.59
Cash End of Year                                54.76     16.94   30.59    91.88    82.59    62.73
RATIOS
Debt Service Coverage                            0.00       1.45    2.92      3.49      2.09       1.38
Capital Expenditure 2 Net Internal Sources
Annual                                        -50.53    17.26   49.69    61.69    51.98    28.02
Three-year average                            -39.03    17.58   46.68    57.12    66.48    27.23



- 128 -
A lmbx 1.4
Table 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REOR
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Container Terminal:  Income Statements - (Million DH)
INCOME STATEMENT      1990    1991    199     19        94    1915 1921    1222
REVERUE
Maintenance          31.82   99.34  133.99  140.15  146.61  162.92  180.61 199.77   220.52  242.98
Port Dues             1.97    2.83    3.22    3.34    3.47    3.83    4.23   4.66       5.14    5.68
Services              0.72    0.75    0.82    0.85    0.88    0.97    1.07   1.18       1.30    1.44
Infrastructure Fees    2.99    4.15    6.19   10.69   18.43   23.92   27.20  26.60      Q 30.10    .85
TOTAL REVENUES     37.50  107.07  144.21  155.03  169.39  191.64  213.11 232.21   257.07  280.f5
OPERATING EXPENSES
Materials             2.67    3.57    4.79    6.89   11.29   13.17   14.38  13.07    14.94   15.18
Services              2.67    3.57    4.79    6.89   11.29   13.1?   14.38  13.07    14.94   15.18
Personnel             8.01    8.46   8.91   _.30M   9.76   10L.       10L.    11.46    12L.0    12I.
TOTAL OPERATING    13.34   15.59   18.50   23.08   32.34   36.64   39.62  37.60    41.97   43.11
EXPENSES
Depreciation           2.83    4.54    7.17   12.35   22.58   29.19   32.42  32.42    36.85   37.46
Interest Expense      9.05   12.60   18.77   27.68      .      MA   .35.    33.32    29.98   40.39
TOTAL              25.22   32.74   44.U    63.11   91.57  104.70  107.91 103.35   108.81  120.96
Corporate Taxes        4.91   29.73   39.91   36.77   31.13   34.78   42.08  51.55    59.30   64.00
Net Income             7.37   44.60   59.86   55.15   46.69   52.17   63.12  77.32    88.96   95.99
Net Income
after RevaLuation    4.76   41.96   56.81   51.50   42.06   47.36   56.93  71.94    82.03   8?.46
Net Income
before Interest     13.81   54.56   75.58   79.18   78.71   86.24   92.79 105.25   112.01  127.85
Accumilated
Depreciation        30.20   40.79   55.25   76.40  110.56  134.94  184.96 199.83   259.00  324.66
Net Fixed Assets      95.60  119.57  202.54  390.15  713.68  970.11  1124.53 1143.82  1309.67 1362.15
Average Net
Fixed assets        62.43  107.58  161.06  296.35  551.92  841.90 1047.32 1134.17  1226.74 1335.91
Rate of Return        22.13   50.71   46.93   26.71   14.26   10.24    8.86   9.28       9.13    9.57
Operating Ratio       43.12   18.81   17.80   22.86   32.42   34.35   33.81  30.16    30.66   28.68



- 129
1 4
Table 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Coal Handling Facility - (Millgon DR)
1992  a2Em  am   Um  am   I"? in 9 m   ma
TOTAL REVENUES               1.23    2.95   12.82   36.29   42.54   43.81  43.74   43.67   43.61
iooorts Quantity (000 tons)                 0.75    0.75    1.50    1.50   1.50    1.50    1.50
Revenue per Ton (0N)                        17.09   48.38   29.21   29.21  29.16   29.12   29.07
S Equivalent                                 2.01    5.69    3.34    3.44   3.43    3.43    3.42
OPERATING EXPENSES
Materials                    0.10    0.11    1.09    5.00    5.73    5.89   5.89    5.89    5.89
Services                     0.10    0.11    1.70    8.04    9.05    9.20   9.20    9.20    9.20
Personnel                    0.41    0.43    0.45    0.47    0.50    0.53   0.56    0.59    0.62
Depreciation                 0.41    0.43    2.24    9.33   11.34   11.96  11.96   11.96   11.96
Interest Expense             0.21    1.88    7.34   13.45   15.92   16.23  16.13   16.03   15.93
TOTAL                  1.23    2.9f   12.82   36.29   42.54   43.81  43.74   43.67   43.61



- 130 -
Annex -14
Table 6
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
1990   1991  i       199 1993    22    1995
Base Case
Rate of Return                    7.8    8.5   7.0    9.4    7.5    6.4
Debt Service Coverage             0.0    1.5   2.9    3.5    2.1    1.4
75% of Base Case Tariff
Base Case Traffic
Rate of Return                    7.8    7.7   5.6    6.1    3.9    2.6
Debt Service Coverage             0.0    1.4   2.8    3.2    1.8    1.3
75X of Base Case Tariff
Constant Traffic
Rate of Return                    7.8    8.3   6.7    7.6    5.6    4.5
Debt Service Coverage             0.0    1.4   2.9    3.3    2.0    1.2
Base Case Tariff
Constant Traffic
Rate of Return                    7.8    7.7   5.5    7.2    4.8    3.4
Debt Service Coverage             0.0    1.4   2.8    3.3    1.9    1.2



- 131 -
Anneg 1S
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOR0CCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
List of Prodect File Documents
A.   Selected ReDorts and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1. SAR Highway Sector Project, January 8, 1990
A.2. Transport Sector Public Investment Review, World Bank, December 1987
A.3. Etude du schema directeur National des transports, Dar El Handasah,
January 1990
A.4. Morocco Trade Expansion Program, Draft Report, World Bank, November
1989
A.S. Administration et organisation portuaire: une experience interessante
au Maroc, Jean Chapon, UNCTAD, June 1989
B.   Selected Peports and Studies Related to the Project
B.l. Etudes de factibilite li6es a la pr4paration d'un eventuel projet
portuaire, CATRAM, January 1990
B.2. Contrat  Programme  Etat-ODEP  1991-1993  (second  draft),  ODEP,
November 1990
B.3. Expertise des impacts sur l'environnement marin, Mission Reports,
Christian Brossard, November 1989 and February 1990
B.4. ODEP's investment Plan 1990-1994, January, 1990
B.5. Amelioration de la qualite de service, Plan d'Actions 1990-1994, ODEP,
December 1989
B.6. Bidding documents for the construction of the new container terminal
in the port of Casablanca, CID-BCEOM, August 1990
B.7. Technical Studies related to the Casablanca Container Terminal
(a)  Etude d'agitation sur modele math6matique, LPEE, March 1990
(b) Etude de stabilit6 en canal a houle du cavalier, LPEE,
February 1990
(c) Recherche de materiaux, LPEE, January 1990
(d) Etude G6otechnique, LPEE, August 1990
(e) Analyse de vase au nouveau terminal a conteneurs, LPEE,
August 1990
B.8. TOR Etude des actions de modernisation, (dredging study), Soci6t6 de
dragage des ports, DRAPOR, July 1990
B.9. TOR for updating the National master plan, Direction des Ports,
Septe.mber 1990
B.10.TOR Rehabilitation des dragages d'entretien des ports, 6tude
d'environnement (environmental assessment of maintenance dredging),
Christian Brossard, February 1990



- 132 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
B.ll.Draft TOR Logistic Studies and Facilitation, July 1990
B.12.Etude de tarification, Rapport de synthese, ODEP, October 1988
B.13.Etude d'organisation de l'ODEP, Rapport de synth&se, Arthur D. Little-
IMEG-Audit Maroc, October 1988
B.14.Rapport sur la gestion financiere, le contr6le budgetaire et l'audit
interne, Transtec, April 1989
B.15.Etude de conception d'un systeme de surveillance et d'aide a la
navigation maritime dans le detroit de Gibraltar a partir de la rive
Marocaine (radar control tower and vessel traffic services), OPEFORM
and als, July 1990
B.16.Mission de l'expert en op6ration portuaires pour le Projet Portuaire
Casablanca et Mohammedia, Jean Platteau, August 1988
B.17.Etude du Plan National Directeur Portuaire et de l'organisation du
secteur portuaire, Sogreah-BCEOM, September 1983 and May 1985
(supplement)
C.   Selected Working Papers
C.1. Economic evaluation of the proposed container terminal in the port of
Casablanca
C.2. Statistiques portuaires 1988-1989, ODEP
C.3. ODEP's Appraisal Report, January 1990
C.4. Evaluation of ODEP's Fixed Assets, ODEP
C.5. ODEP's Financial Forecast
C.6. Financial Data - ODEP's consolidated financial statements for
1985-19R9
C.7. Evolution et comparaison des tarifs avec les ports 6trangers, ODEP
C.8. Trade Facilitation and Logistics: various working papers by Bank staff
and consultants John Raven, JosQ Dubois and Bernard Stoven
C.9. Bilan des actions de formation pour l'ann6e 1989, ODEP
C.l0.Tableau de bord des ressources humaines, ODEP, September 1989
C.11.Draft TOk Etudes prospective pour le developpement des ressources
humaines (human resources development study), ODEP, September 1989
C.12.Rendement de la manutention dans les ports marocains, ODEP,
October 1989
C.13.Indicateurs d'exploitation, ODEP, Kay 1989
C.14.Inventory of Equipment, ODEP, January 1990



- 133 -
TableI
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL UPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Port Facilities
----Number of Berths -------   Total
General       Bulk                  Length   Water Dgpth (m)
Carg-   Liwdn solid   Total         (m?      HLni      Max.
Casablanca       36           12           48      5.800       6         12
Nohammedia        3            2            5        600       6         22
Kenitra          11            2           13      1,230       3.5        4
Jorf Lasfar       3            9           12      1,330       5.3       15.6
Safi              5            4            9      1,460       8.5      12
Agadir           12            1           13      3,380       9
Tan Tan           4           --            4        600       4          6
LaAyoune          1            4            5        800       7         25
Dakhla            7           --            7        480       4.2        6.7
Tangier          14            2           16      1,750       5         12
Nador             6            9           la      2J500       5         13
Total        102           45          147     19,930
Source: MW  - Ports Directorate



- 134 -
Table 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
pORT SECTOR PROJECT
Distribution of Ttaffic by Port: 1988 V
(Thousand Tons)
Port       Liuid Bulk Minerals    Cereals  Dy BuAlk General Cargo    Total
Casablanca     1,558    10,305       998        361       3,502       16,724
:.ohammedia    4,865         -          -        17          10        4,892
Safi           1,656     3,147       193        638         196        5,830
Jorf Lasfar    1,834     3,747        127     1,184          41        6,933
Tangiers          90         -        176         -         499          765
Nador             56       426        204         -         491        1,177
Agadir           312       225        221        26         510        1,294
Kenitra           82        47          -         7         276          412
Saharan Ports    184       144          -i                   34          380
Total                    L4919                                =559
V Includes coastal traffic
Source: ODEP



- 135 -
Iabl 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Division of Responsibility between DP and ODEP
PORTS --       -->            C     M      S     A      T     N      J     TT    K
PORT INFRASTRUCTURE
Construction                 3      3     3      3     3      3     3      3     3
Breakwater Maintenance 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3
Maintenance of other          *     *     *      *     I      *     0      *     *
structures
Channel Maintenance* 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3
WAREHOUSES AND BUILDINGS
Construction                 *      3     I      I     I      I     I      I
Maintenance
EOUIPMENT
Investment                   E      I     U      U     I      I     U      I     U
Major Repairs                 3     *      3     |     3      *     3      3     *
Routine Maintenance           *     *     *      *     *      3     3      *     3
SERVICES TO SHIPS
Signalling (new works) 3 3 * 3 3 3 3 3 3
Signalling (operation) * I I I I I I I U
Harbor Master                 3     *     3      3     3      3     3      3     3
Pilotage                     .11.
Towage                       4L11   3            3     3      1     t      I 
Water Supply                 3      *     0      3     *      *     *      *     *
Dry Docks          3                - O          -            -
Slipways                     3      3     3      *     3      3      -     3
Line Handling                       I     4L    *      *      *     *      *     E
SERVICES TO CARGO
Stevedoring                  Lr    I                                             JL 4  1    I  I
Cargo Handling Ashore        3      *     *      *     *      3     3      3     41*
Warehousing                   *     *     f      3     3      *     *      *       *
MISCELLANEOUS
Water Supply and              *     *     *      3     *      *     *      *     3
Electricity Networks
Fish Market                  I      I     I      I     +      +     +      4     $
Ferries Facilities                  -      -     *     *
Public Domain Management 3 I I 3 3 I U U U
3 Ports Directorate (DP)               *     Dredging performed by DRAPOR
g ODEP                                       subsidiary of ODEP
Jr Private                             **    Equipment rented from ODEP
+ National Fisheries Board             ***   Warehouses rented from ODEP
C-Casablanca       M-Kohammedia       S-Safi
A-Agadir           T-Tangier          N-Nador
J-Jorf-Lasfar      K-Kenitra          TT-Tan-Tan, Dakhla, Laayoune



- 136 -
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PQO SECTOR PROJECT
Productivity Data
1.        Productivity ger gang on selected items (tons per shift of 8 h)
Pot         Cargo item               1984                 Variation (in X)
Casablanca
Citrus fruits (pallets)           99       152             53.5X
Packaged woods                   125       154             23.21
Steel products                   185       572            209.21
Sugar in bulk                    234       306             30.81
Grain in bulk                    203       222              9.41
Bales                             33        56             69.71
Paper products                   119       215             80.71
Fertilizers in bags               55        61             10.9X
Safi
Sulfur                         1,808     1,976              9.31
TSP in bags                      219       295             34.7X
Potasch                          298       311              4.41
Manganese                        491       464             -5.51
Iander
Grain in bulk                    182       211             15.91
Timber                            86       111             29.11
Steel products                   228       327             43.41
Paper products                   137       206             50.4Z
Agadir
Grain in bulk                    489       386            -21.11
Citrus fruits                    118       150             27.11
Logs                             110       155             40.91
Packaged wood                     74       109             47.31
Nador
Grain                            271       299             10.31
Lead                             191       280             46.61
Coal                             231       301             30.31
Steel products                   347       397             14.41
Baryte                         1,044     1,453             39.21
Source: ODEP



- 137 -
aLble 4
Page 2 of 2
2.        Ship Movements by Port: 1988
Gross Registered
Port                         Number of Shins              Tonnage (GRT)
Nador                               292                      1,239,590
Tangier                           4,885                     14,086,175
Kenitra                             608                        949,370
Nohammedia                           654                     7,204,451
Casablanca                        6,220                     40,129,215
Jorf Lasfar                          850                    10,583,984
Safi                              1,069                      9,296,324
Agadir                            1,470                      5,684,033
Saharian Ports                      504                      2.545.964
Total                 16,552                     91,719,106
3.        Berth Utilization ard Occumancy: 1988
Average Ship     Averag2 Ship
Port                Waiting Time     Service Time       Berth Occupancy
(hours)          (hours)               (X)
Nador                    11                67                   23
Tangier                  --                --                   36
Kenitra                  14                87                   35
Mohammedia               40                --                   24
Casablanca               12                --               40-58
Jorf Lasfar              13                39                   28
Safi                     20               53                 25-44
4.        Container Traffic: 1988
Output per gang: 651 tons per shift, 72 TEUs per shift
Output per ship: 130 TEUs per shift
Berth occupancy: 38X (1987)
Dwell time: 22 days (import), 4 days (export)
5.        Average General Cargo Dwell Time: 1988
Nador                18.9 days
Tangier              42.5 days
Casablanca           15.3 days
Jorf Lasfar           16.3 days
Safi                 11.1 days
Agadir                18.3 days



- 138 -
Table 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APP-RAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Key Elements for the Contract Plan
- Government port policy (strategy, objectives)
- Respective functions and responsibilities of
public agencies on the public domain
- Role of the private sector and conditions of
entry in port sector activities
- Investment program
- Port planning with criteria relating to
economic   and   financial   'iability   of
investments
- Principles of tariff setting and procedures
for adjustment
- Indicators and targets for financial and
personnel management
- Technical   indicators   and   targets   for
operations and equipment management
- Transfer of fixed assets to ODEP
- Fee to be paid by ODEP on Government-owned
infrastructure
- Financial control and audit procedures
- Arrears ODEP-RAPC



- 139 -
Table 6
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
ODEP
(a) Studies
Man-months
Civil works supervision           100
Subprojects preparation            80
Dredging study                     20
Data processing/software           30
Telecommunications master plan    20
Financial studies                  20
Miscellaneous                      30
Total                300 Man-months
(b) Training
Courses and technical visits (abroad)
Man-months
Technical visits                  120
- Containers                       10
- Ro-Ro                             6
- Conventional general cargo       12
- Bulk terminals                    6
- Equipment                        24
- Other                            62
Manpower resources management      12
Port planning                       3
Project management                  9
Environment                         6
Marketing                          10
Finances                           10
Port operations                    20
Total                190 Man-months



- 140 -
Table 6
Page 2 of 2
Seminars (Morocco)                   Nb of staff
Port planning                      25
Project management                 25
Environmental protection           25
Marketing                          25
Total                 100 staff
Ports Directorate (DP)
(a) Studies
National Port Master Plan:   30 man-months
Environmental studies,
subproject preparatica:       20 man-months
(b) Training
8 man-months of courses and technical visits abroad
(a) Studies
Technical studies, detailed design,
environment:                  60 man-months
(b) Training
8 man-months of courses and technical visits abroad



- 141 -
Table 7
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Initial Allocation of the Two Bank Loans
Loan to the Kingdomt of Morocco
Categorv                               Amount
(US$ million)
Breakwater Rehabilitation                 9.9
Dredging                                  6.3
Marine Security                           6.6
Miscellaneous Equipment                   0.6
Consulting services                       2.2
Overseas training                         0.2
Unallocated                               7.2
Total              33.0
Loan to ODEP
Cateaory                               Amount
(US$ million)
Civil works for Casablanca
container terminal                     36.1
Tangier civil works                       3.9
Jorf Lasfar civil works                   8.5
Container Handling Equipment             12.7
Coal Handling Equipment.                  9.5
Other Equipment                           1.1
Consulting services                       3.9
Overseas training                         2.0
Unallocated                              21.3
Total              99.0



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Central Ports Directorate (DP)
Organization Chart
DIRECTOR
OF PORTS
PERSONNEL
ACCOUNTING AND PROCUREMENT
REGIONAL SERVICES
OPERATIONS               TECHNICAL               PLANDNDING          ADLIGHTHOUSES
DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT             AND STUDIES          AND BEACON
DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT
COORDINATION_________                    fSTATISTICSLIHOUE
|COORDINATON|  | CIVI WORKS |      |AND E.D.P. ||AND BEACON|
PROPT                 ISUPERVISION              ECOOIC                DREDGING
[PIC                                            ONMIC
TARIFFS        ~    ~EQUIPMENT            PLANNING



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Port Directorate of Casablanca and Mohammedia (DPCM)
Organization Chart
GENERAL
DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENT OF           DEPARTMENT OF
DEPARTMENT OF              CASABLANCA              MOHAMMEDIA             CENTRAL
EQUIPMENT                  PORT                    PORT                 SERVICES
OPERATIONS              OPERATIONS
STUDIES                   HARBOR                  HARBOR
DIVISION                  MASTER                  MASTER j
CIVIL                  PLANNING
WORKS                  AND STUDIES            OPERATIONS
DIVISION                 DIVISION              DIVISION
J MECHANICAL             OPERATIONS
& ELECTRICAL             DIVISION
jDIVISION                DVSO



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Office for Port Operations (ODEP)
1. Organization at Headquarters
IMINISTRY OFI
BPUBC WORKSI
TECHNICAL             BOARD              MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEES                                COMMITTEE
HUMA   ORANIZAIONFOM                                   SOCIAL      SECONDARY
DEVELOPMENT   FINANCIAL      EHUMANS    & INFORMI         ENGINEERING       LEGAL       AFFAIRS        PORTS
DEPARTMENT   DEPARTMENT   RESOURCES        SYSTEMS        DEPARTMENT   DEPARTMENT   DEPARTMENT   DEPARTMENT
DEPARTMENT   DEPARTMENT
PORT
OPERATIONS
UNITS
NADOR        TANGER       IENITRA    MOHAMMEDIA        CASABLANCA   JORPLASFAR         SAFI        AGADIR



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
Office for Port Operations (ODEP)
II. Organization of Casablanca Port Operation Unit (DEPC)
rENE O.D.E.P.    |
GENERAL MANAGER]
D.E.P.C.
PORT DIRECTOR
LEGAL
DIVISION                     UI
MARKETING &                                 DVI
FORECASTS
DEPARTMENT                                FINANCIAL &
i                                     ACCOUNTING
HUMAN                                     DIVISION
RESOURCES                                     I_
DIVISION                                  E.D.P. &
MANAGEMENT
INFORMATION
DIVISION
[ HANDLING  §   gEQUIPMENT     ENGINEERING       FISH MARKET      SHIP REPAIR
DEPARTMENT      DEPARTMENT       DEPARTMENT        DIVISION           YARD



12                                                          8                                                         4
1j%   etf,a>n .I}
0 MIDiqC
('~   t   '"  1"      ri    Al MHx Pima      +tNdo       N
M O R O C C O                                                                i0                        .hbb+  
M O R O C C O                                                 (lun~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:auen  lebha    t9   NdR.
LaracheO                     0                            K1Ixdl4a0
PORKT SECTORKPROJ ECT                                                                      SoKearl, A11.ln                                                    ud 
MOROCCO  PORT  SYSTEM                                                         Mechr..Brt.K l r 'yj Taounate
\,Stv~~~dl 1
K.enitra *        em                        la.'            ranurirtt    
Mohamrwdl I                                           S iekne1 t (  T
CT n           3       r       Khemls.wt   4,6<|             0r1   ItEN  .1 
Joe  Hrsetb )nmouzer Kandar                                    /it
-32-   A  71AJVI|f                      iii           g        n     i     f     r      a       g     '                                Bo-i&         >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fr
slimano                  7' %     ( kouIernane
C) C' E A N                                                    El de.        .       Moalla     ,       J        M R--_ch
jof            Ida       ,        ,' 6 zfa 5
CENTRAL                MSOUtH    TA 
SDennate      I   ,      oumima         Errat* id(a
~~~~TE                                 _iDente               .     Gul        -     rrTinhird, .a
,  Imin Tano,uta      ,¢     1 s                5{;Kelaa      ,¢'                       s      43    PORT SU8PROJECT LOCATIONS
|  gvv ><<w'    des Mgosuna   !  ,PORTS
MAJOR ROADS
SOUX^pn?Tamakht                                                       -       S ERCONDARY ROADS
,TVe=A fr, an (S en.,.sl.s 1,; re.%                        Taia 
*  ^rh  D   , r  Talma   |               S O L t J H                 . °zagora ;;/x/                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCAL ROADS
lntd he nt  aion./ Fln Ib                         / I-I-II RALROADS
t2#4zheta ,m, Jff  ", tbn,                                                                                                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS
tnt rna =n tt" cetzJ¢tw on                    /  4;Tknit                     <3\Tata                    _   _T~  j,iiate                                 @         NATIONAL CAPIIAL
<F=."Sttnt n>,@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~en h/ r ___    plox                                                 O                         TOWNS AND CJTIES
wch beweaurtff                                                            ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
- )  t                                                                     .  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
400,                                                                            -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
,,. Guetmim             /                     ,°      50    tOo    IsO                                         (approximate)
1oS  /                    /                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERtS                 -NOTIE Son  ot existing fall
-28s                                                                                                                                                      outsi tbe map image area.
,, 'Tan-Tan                                                                                                                                                                              _2
_ i o    :%'t                                                                   -4-2- 



t2-  8                                               4
TSgr 4                      \ h .bA    :1. ; U7  a 
I T             MUiq       i     
M  O  R O  C C O                                                                             E Ii Al, Hoxeima
Larache 0   Chaouen0       IeblIa    0~
K%ar el YebirS
PORT SECTOR PROJECT                                                                                0uAnt 
Souk el Arba    0                                             u
MOROCCO PORT SYSTEM                                                     Mechra-ts  raounate
Sidi
Kenitra *     m -0 ema
MohabSae   >                                   -%J '1            
RABATa,
MohammK edla                        6 *   k       ( ; IRJ3
JorfLasbri@adida~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                              )NE 74[i  2  I  \
Ben                   Afl~~~~~~~'motuzer Kanadar  OIAI
bga               - e  ~Buterane
A  TI A N   TI                                     S         1                             -Khenlfra
-32-                                                     -          flour   ;    CEN/TRALj          y              Mide                                     b 
0  c EA Iv                                                 dE Ke sUHiTat   3 
/ J-   TENS/F-T;           0,D   Ws)Demnate    .,    r Goulmima           Erraidla          _
E s T Ingi$ 
W  Imin TarkoutO     /      s           -Kelaa            /     J                s      ;     RPORT SUBPROIFCT LOCATIONS
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                           desMp I tFRS -
-               4   § 3. 5 t _ /    A IR PO R TS
=MAJORE ROADS
71,. Wor;ld 5,tnk^. .JMIexclw(.'.              -8t4 9-               -        _>Tam/A=    SECONDARY ROADS
readers *nd Is ak,a- * (r tY  uhe                                                                                                                 LOCaima    S  O  U  T H   °Zagora  LOCAL ROADS
a,c ih.n rnrr Uonaj p,tnaoc.                  /--- I                                         *) *@                                                 AJIROAD5
C.,~eorron. Th. ronernknttono
uwad a,dlh.hos'ndarjea                                             I _                                    /                                  0    PROVINCE CAPiTALS
Dan a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pdi                                                                                    @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-NATIONAL CAPITAL
:7yajs'df;0OOlh CR / alsnzais '3Tat    /                                                                                                     0   _ # SpfO  0    TOWNS AND CITIES
futhwdogrsn.  /d                                                                                                                           -'O _  ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
/        -                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL 8OUNDARIES
-  -   / _INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
.00 Guelmim       °      50    ttt0   tS0(approximate)
28'                                                                                            KILOMETERS                                   NoaTE!: Soe mporItsse *Irea.
- T;- iTan                                I                                                                   4                                         2-
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    a,~        ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~2



MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
CASABLANCA PORT LAYOUT
Project Extension                                                                                                                                       I
--Propose Road Access
'u-,-  Future Bridge at Gabt No. 4
Built-up Areas
-    Customs Fence
4-4-  Railroads
F-,L7   Port Buildirngs                             O'
0                  ~~~~~~  ~~0.5                                                                                      0
KILOMETERS                                     0stt1
Royt l Navy                     Harbor
<  i                           <                                                0                 <    'aSF  "t'ff ic
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3hip         .iji,                      ,,       : < Customs                     _
Yards      t  _                           .                              .
<Idi Selyout Quay
~'> No I         .
St, t-o~~~~~~~~~~~~Itt                                                                                                                                 N



MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT                                             AIlantic    Ocean
JORF LASFAR PORT LAYOUT                                                                                                                         NORTH
ENTRANCE
Proposed Coal Berth
O O   Port Buildings                                                                     sszt%9
Roads
s00                                                                                  O.C.P,
WATER
INTAKCE
0                ty REPAIR
/                                           O4Etf~~~~~~~~~~~~*:5,  ~~~~~~~~ ~AREA 
WAREHOUSES
COIO STORAGE
O os0                                                                               /                  / P.
KItOMOTRS v/   t 
40
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t v  hw bru WOM-6d e
,  % s   ,                                 u s e d  ~~~~~~~~~~~ n d  m e tf m o n a   F dc
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o VU aw  do not wnprV on "
SOUJTH                                                         k**OrW2Wc  omsat
ENTRANCE           0#                                            ajudwnenon  h* kWe -tsA
/;  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~xeese of ac:ephnce of                        E
/    ~~~                                             at~
_ich _o                      axnt
co~



MOROCCO
.  .  ,   .                                               PORT SECTOR PROJECT
TANGIER PORT LAYOUT
Project Extension
BREAKWATER                                                                      (RO-RO  Facilities)
PETROLEUM BERTH                                                             Roads
Railroads
/    [a    Port Buildings
--------    Port Boundary
---- -  /5 5           ~~~TERtMINI
/    ~  t'  'Ot .A2j
STA                                                                                                                                                   KI r/LOMETERS
This omop hs nbe  p-epo,ed bz Th Worl BoA's doff eodoooely 6or the  x
co.nec  iereadmr ead is eoJuorel for the internol ow of The Wordd 
Bonk ad i. Inrnaiofl Ihrodo Co,porabo.-  Tho demo.   mion red and
the boundoris rhown -n this .op do nctmply. on the pa1of The Wortd Bak
any terr or any  hor&torrponreof  s                     ch iond 5i s  t



