Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 18764
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORTS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283184-MOR)
December 28, 1998
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
currency Name                 Dirham (DH)
Equivalent in DH of US$ 1
At Appraisal   (December 31,1989)                     8.1152
At closing date (June 30, 1998)                       9.7461
Annual averages
1990           8.2740                         1994            9.2339
1991           8.7497                         1995            8.5753
1992           8.5479                         1996            8.8018
1993           9.3437                         1997            9.2000
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
Metric System                  British/US System
1 meter (m)              3.281 feet
1 kilometer (kin) = 1,000 m    =       0.622 mile
I square meter (m2)             10.764 square feet
I hectare (ha)= 10,000 m2             2.471 acres
I metric ton (t)             2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DMM                    Directorate of Merchant Marine
DP                     Directorate of Ports
DPCM                   Directorate of Ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia
EDI                    Electronique Data Interchange
EIB                    European Investment Bank
MFMM                   Ministry of Fishing and Merchant Marine
MPW                    Ministry of Public Works
NTC                    Nouveau terminal a Conteneurs - New Container Terminal
ODEP                   Office d'Exploitation des Ports - Office for Port Management
ONE                    Office National de l'Electricite - National Office for Energy
PE                     public enterprises
PERL                   Public Enterprises Restructuring Loan
RoRo                   Roll-on/Roll-off traffic
SIPROMAR               National Commission for Simplification of Foreign Trade Procedure
TIR                    Transports Intemationaux Routiers - international convention on road transport (1975)
VTS                    Vessel Traffic Service
Vice-President: Mr. Kemal Dervi5
Sector Director: Mr. Jean Claude Villiard
Sector Leader:  George Tharakan
Team Leader:   Michel Loir
Responsible Staff: Fathi Ben Slimane, Ahmed El-Haniri and Patrick Fourgeaud



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORTS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/84-MOR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P R E F A C E         ......................................................................I ......................................................1
EVALUATION SUMMARY    ..2
PART I:   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT.                                                                                      5
A. Project Obectives                                                   .5
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                                            .7
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project .12
D.        Project Sustainability ...............       .     .     ,     .     .......................................  12
E.        Bank Performance ............................................................                               13
F.        Borrower Performance ............................................................                           13
G.        Assessment of Outcome ............................................................                          13
H.        Key Lessons Leamed ............................................................                             13
PART II:    STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:              Summary Assessments ............................................................                           15
Table 2:              Other Bank Loans/Credits .................                ...........................................      18
Table 3:              Schedule              ............................................................                         19
Table 4:             Loan/Credit! Disbursements; Cumulative Estimated and Actual Costs .......... ......                        20
Table 5.1:           Key Indicators for Project Implementation / Operation .....................           ....................  21
Key Indicators for Project Implementation / Training .........................         .................  21
Table 6:              Studies Included in Project ............................................................                  22
Table 7:              Summary of Project Cost ............................................................                      23
Table 8a:            Projects Costs .............................................................                               24
Table 8b:            Project Financing ............................................................                             24
Table 9:             Economic Analysis ............................................................                             25
Table 10:            Status of Legal Covenants .2................................ I6........................                    26
Table 11:            Bank Resources: Staff ............................................................                         27
Table 12:            Bank Resources: Missions ............................................................                      28
ANNEXES:
Annex 1:   ODEP's Comments on the ICR.
Annex 2:  Financial Analysis.
Annex 3:  Technical Indicators.
Annex 4:             Maps 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/84-MOR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Morocco Port Sector Project, funded by Loan
3283-MOR for US$33 million to the Kingdom of Morocco, and Loan 3284-MOR for US$99 million to the
Office d 'exploitation des ports (ODEP), for a total of US$132 million. The original closing dates of June
30, 1996 were extended twice, and both loans closed on June 30, 1998.
The last disbursement for Loan 3283, in the amount of US$2.16 million, was made on July 5, 1998. The
total amount disbursed was US$21.48 million after cancellation of US$5 million in November 1995 and
FRF 30.00 million in June 1998. The undisbursed balance of FFR9.27 million was cancelled on October
31, 1998.
The last disbursement for Loan 3284, in the amount of US$1.43 million, was made on January 15, 1998.
The total amount disbursed was US$90.96. The undisbursed balance of US$8.05 was cancelled on
October 31, 1998.
This ICR was prepared by Fathi Ben Slimane, Senior Financial Analyst, in collaboration with Ahmed El-
Hamri of the Infrastructure Development Group, Middle East and North Africa Region (MNSID) and
Patrick Fourgeaud of TWUTD. It was reviewed by George Tharakan, Sector Leader; and Michel Loir,
Team Leader, MNSID, and Marc Juhel of TWUTD.
Preparation of the ICR started with a mission carried out from July 24-31, 1998 by MM. Fathi Ben
Slimane, Ahmed El-Hamri, and Patrick Fourgeaud; Han-Kang Yen provided assistance for the economic
reevaluation of the project. This report is also based on material in the project files and on comments
provided by the Borrowers.



2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/84-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1)     The Port Sector Project (Loans 3283/3284-MOR), designed to support the country's port
modernization program and remove bottlenecks to export growth, was approved by the Board on
December 20, 1990 and closed on June 30, 1998. The project was in line with the overall structural
adjustment program for Morocco, particularly as it applied to trade facilitation, public enterprise reform,
and increased efficiency in public investment. Despite extensive Bank investment in Morocco's transport
sector between 1969 and 1990, the greatest part of that investment went to the roads sub-sector. This Port
Sector Project was the second Bank project in Morocco's port sub-sector. The first was the US$22 million
Port Project (Loan 2657-MOR, implemented from 1986 to 1993), designed to improve operational
efficiency and maintain infrastructure at the ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia, as well as improve the
management and financial accountability of the Office d 'Exploitation des Ports (ODEP).
Project objectives and design
2)     The objectives of the project at appraisal were to: (a) improve the operational efficiency of
Morocco's ports by assisting the Borrowers (the Government and ODEP) in adapting the ports of
Casablanca, Tangiers and Jorf Lasfar to the growth and changing structure of foreign trade, especially
through provision of adequate facilities for unitized cargo; (b) assist the Government in strengthening the
economic viability of its investments in the port sub-sector generally, and increasing the recovery of
infrastructure costs through, inter alia, appropriate changes in port tariffs; and (c) encourage policies and
institutional measures aimed at improving the planning and coordination of port activities in relation to the
Government's efforts to promote foreign trade.
3)     The design of the project included investment and institutional development components for each
Borrower. Specifically, these were: (a) a port investment program for ODEP, including a new container
terminal at Casablanca; a coal handling facility at Jorf-Lasfar; a RoRo facility at Tangiers, and a
comprehensive training program; (b) a port investment and maintenance program for the Government,
including civil works and training of operators for the vessel traffic station (VTS) control tower at
Tangiers, dredging, and maintenance and rehabilitation of breakwaters in Casablanca, Mohammedia,
Agadir, and Tangiers; (c) an institutional development program for ODEP in port operations, trade
facilitation including port procedures and information systems, investment planning, environment and
safety, cost recovery, and fixed assets management; the program also included targets to be achieved and
indicators that could be monitored during project implementation; (d) an institutional development
program for the Government, consisting of specific measures in trade facilitation, investment planning,
and fixed assets management; (e) training programs for ODEP and two Government entities, the
Directorate of Ports (DP), and the Directorate of the Ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia (DPCM); and
(f) consultant services to assist ODEP, DP, and DPCM.
Implementation experience and results.
4)     The project performed well from the beginning and was rated satisfactory for implementation and
development objectives. ODEP completed its components about 15 percent below projected costs and
according to the initial timetable, June 1996. This project was a key factor in strengthening ODEP's
managerial accountability and financial performance as well as its operational efficiency. However, in
terms of dwell time for cargo-mainly containers-in port, the performance, although satisfactory, was
still below expectations because of increasing customs control and lengthy commercial bank-related
procedures that were out of ODEP's control. This situation is expected to gradually evolve as the new
Trade Facilitation Commission improves the coordination and implementation of appropriate procedures.



3
Overall, ODEP's operational efficiency and the economic viability of its investments have improved as a
result of: (a) an appropriate and successful training program that enhanced its management and operational
capabilities; (b) an improved organizational structure and better coordination with customs; and (c)
changes in the port tariff structure, which has enhanced ODEP's financial performance.
5)     Under the loan to the Government, DPCM and DP completed their components satisfactorily;
however, the Directorate of Merchant Marine (DMM) was not so successful. The DMM-executed VTS
subproject suffered important delays due to lack of coordination among executing agencies and lengthy
payment procedures. Although the closing date was extended twice, and despite previous
recommendations and warnings from the Bank, this component is not expected to be completed until the
first quarter of 1999. The extension of the closing date, requested in late June 1998, was not authorized
for the above reasons. Consequently, the Government will provide the additional funds to complete the
subproject.
Evaluation of objectives and risks.
6)     The objectives stated at appraisal were in line with the Bank's strategy for the transport sector,
which aims to improve investments planning, make better use of existing facilities through trade
facilitation and logistics, improve the management of public enterprises, eliminate subsidies through a
more flexible tariff system, and increase budgetary allocations for maintenance of infrastructure. Given the
Government's commitment in past projects to improving planning and coordination of investments in the
transport sector, increasing cost recovery, restructuring and increasing the autonomy of public enterprises
(PEs), and signing of a contrat plan with ODEP, the project has met its objectives and implementation
targets, except for DMM's VTS component as stated above.
7)     The most important risk foreseen at appraisal was the viability of the construction of the new
container terminal. This risk was mitigated by using a design that allowed for significant increases in
traffic flow and for flexibility through the provision of facilities for both RoRo and container ships. The
other risk was related to the Borrowers' possible lack of commitment to implement the institutional
changes required for trade facilitation and logistics. In this regard, ODEP set up a modern management
and information system and appropriate electronic data interchange with port operators and customs, the
latter being delayed because of software problems experienced by the customs. ODEP also negotiated
harmonized working schedules with customs in compliance with the new round-the-clock organization of
the new container terminal (NCT), which increased the performance of this facility. However, major
policy issues regarding trade facilitation are out of ODEP's control; they are related to customs procedures
and documentary credit and need to be tackled within the framework of a larger transport sector project. In
the case of customs, the systematic control of all imported commodities, and the need to upgrade the data
processing system to conform to EDIFACT communication standards, are the main issues to be solved in
the near future. This approach was recommended in the revised study for the Port Master Plan financed
under this loan.
Key factors affecting the project.
8)     The main prerequisite for smooth implementation of the program was the capacity of the entities
to conduct complex processes including international tendering, managing international contracts, and
adhering to a predefined schedule, as well as the capacity to commit adequate funding on time. ODEP, DP
and DPCM were able to do so, which greatly contributed to their ability to complete their components
satisfactorily. Conversely, DMM's inability to conduct these processes contributed to its inability to
complete its component (VTS) by the closing date.
Project sustainability.
9)     ODEP components were designed and completed successfully, and the new facilities are fully
operational. Performance of the container terminal in Casablanca in 1998 is above target and ODEP is
planning an extension to the terminal; Jorf Lasfar has been performing above its target and related
equipment sold to the Office National de l'Electricite (ONE) which signed a concession contract with



4
private operator; the Tangiers RoRo berth number 5 is helping the port authority to better handle joint peak
periods of TIR (transport international roulier) and passenger traffic.
10)    The institutional, financial, and training components have been completed successfully.
Significant improvements in the efficiency and performance of port sector operations, and in the capacity
of staff, are the major achievements of the project. ODEP has met its financial targets, and the overall
financial performance of the project is satisfactory.
11)    The backlog in maintenance of basic port infrastructure has been reduced; all needed dredging
work and rehabilitation of breakwaters have been carried out and completed satisfactorily. The updated
National Master Plan will assist the Ministry of Public Work (MPW) to plan investment and maintenance
operations over the next ten years.
Assessment of outcome.
12)    This project has achieved most of its implementation and development objectives. ODEP
performed well and, through project financed training, strengthened its staff's skills and management
capacity. The DP and DPCM performed adequately. The Master Plan study, as well as dredging and
rehabilitation works, were carried out successfully. However, as stated above, the VTS project was not
satisfactory because of poor coordination among beneficiaries. Once completed, this component will
improve conditions for shipping in the Gibraltar Straits. A comprehensive training program is starting so
staff will be ready to operate the VTS as soon as it is commissioned.
Bank and Borrower performance.
13)    The Bank's identification, preparation and appraisal of the project were satisfactory. It should be
noted that the Bank correctly evaluated the risks associated with the project and performed satisfactorily
during supervision. The adequate implementation of project components, which were managed by DP,
DPCM, and ODEP, can be attributed to their commitment to the success of the project. Regarding the VTS
component, managed by DMM, the performance of the Borrower was not satisfactory and, in spite of
advice and warnings from the Bank, the Moroccan Administration was unable to overcome the
cumbersome procedures, which led to a nearly 3-year delay.
Key lessons learned.
14)    The lessons to be drawn from the implementation of the project are as follows:
-  Good preparation, and identification of the Borrower's implementing and financial capacity, were key
factors in the success of the project. In addition, direct lending to a well-structured institution, ODEP
rather than on-lending to that institution by the Government enhanced ODEP's ownership of the
project and facilitated cooperation between the Bank and ODEP.
*  Close cooperation between the Bank and the Borrowers during identification, preparation, and
supervision of the project ensured that the project responded to the Borrowers' needs, that the process
of problem solving enhanced the Borrowers' skills, and that it reinforced their ownership of the
project.
*  Regarding the outcome of the VTS component, it can be concluded that the budgetary and technical
responsibility for a subproject involving several departments should preferably be assigned to a single
entity, and the project unit and its manager should be identified at appraisal stage.
*  Trade facilitation is too complex matter to be handled in a sub-sector project, unless a process is
defined at appraisal, responsibilities are clearly apportioned, the objective is actively endorsed by key
players (in this case, the Ministry of Finance and customs), and private sector constituencies already
favor the reforms.



5
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/84-MOR)
Introduction
1)     The Port Sector Project, designed to support the country's port modernization program and
remove bottlenecks to export growth, was approved by the Board on December 20, 1990. The project was
in line with the overall structural adjustment program for Morocco, particularly as it applied to trade
facilitation, public enterprise reform (including increasing the autonomy of public enterprises), and
increased efficiency of public investment. Despite extensive Bank investment in Morocco's transport
sector between 1969 and 1990, the greatest part of that investment (US$337 million) went to the roads
sub-sector, in the forn of five highway projects and ten agriculture projects that included upgrading of
rural roads. This Port Sector Project was the second Bank project in Morocco's port sub-sector. The first
was the US$22 million Port Project (Loan 2657-MOR), designed to improve operational efficiency and
maintain infrastructure at the ports of Casablanca and Mohammedia, as well as improve the management
and financial accountability of ODEP. The Port Project was approved in February 1986 and was ongoing
at the time the Port Sector Project was designed and implemented; it closed on June 30, 1993. The Port
Sector Project closed on June 30, 1998.
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Objectives and design of the project at the appraisal stage
2)     At appraisal, the project objectives were to: (a) improve the operational efficiency of Morocco's
ports by assisting the Borrowers (the Government and ODEP) in adapting their infrastructure to the growth
and changing structure of foreign trade, especially through provision of adequate facilities for unitized
cargo; (b) assist the Government in strengthening the economic viability of its investments in the port sub-
sector generally, and increasing the recovery of infrastructure costs through, inter alia, appropriate changes
in port tariffs; and (c) encourage policies and institutional measures aimed at improving the planning and
coordination of port activities in relation to the Government's efforts to promote foreign trade.
3)     In the late 1980s, the Moroccan port infrastructure was developing rapidly and, except for a
modern container terminal; no new major expansion project was planned in the short or medium term. To
plan the new developments of the Moroccan port network in the long term, however, and address the
heavy backlog of infrastructure maintenance works, mainly breakwaters and dredging of access channels
and maneuvering areas, the project included updating of the National Port Master Plan.
4)     In regard to port operations, the evolution of shipping and handling techniques, particularly the
rapid growth of container and RoRo traffic, had been increasing the pressure on ill-equipped conventional
berths with their insufficient yard space and uneasy access to handling areas, as well as the need for
dedicated facilities for unitized traffic. In response to these problems, the project included the following
priority investments and activities: (a) a new container terminal at Casablanca, to replace the outdated and
too limited Tarik wharf facility; (b) a new RoRo facility at Tangiers, to provide more operational berthing
and yard space and improve the processing of steadily growing flows of passengers and trucks; (c) the
upgrading of a coal facility at Jorf Lasfar, to accommodate larger bulk carriers and benefit from lower sea



6
freight rates; (d) new equipment for grain handling in Agadir; and (e) the simplification, rationalization,
and standardization of documents and procedures involved in the transit of cargo through the ports.
Adapted customs clearance services and harmonized documentation were considered critical elements of
trade facilitation, as were improved bank procedures for documentary credit.
5)     At appraisal, the total capital expenditure required to increase capacity in the port sub-sector,
during the 1991-1993 period was estimated at about US$282 million (ODEP 68 percent; the Govemment
32 percent), with a foreign exchange cost of US$151 million. The Port Sector Project as identified covered
81 percent of ODEP's program and 47 percent of the Government's program, including investment in
infrastructure and institutional development. Two loans totaling US$132 million were set up-the first in
the amount of US$33 million to the Kingdom of Morocco, the second in the amount of US$99 million to
ODEP. The project included provision for a new contrat plan to be signed between ODEP and the
Government to clarify ODEP's goals, increase its managerial autonomy, and give it the right to set port
tariffs. The project also included the following components:
*  a port investment program for ODEP, covering the period 1991-1993 and subject to annual updating.
Investments included a new container terminal at Casablanca (Morocco's main port), with quay and
yard equipment, to upgrade the port's container handling capacity; extension of the coal handling
facility at Jorf Lasfar and provision of new handling equipment to accommodate larger ore carriers;
and provision of a RoRo facility at Tangiers to handle the fast growing freight and passenger traffic;
*  a port investment and maintenance program for the Government, covering the period 1991-1993 and
subject to annual updating. Investments included rehabilitation of breakwater, maintenance, and
dredging, as well as a VTS to be installed near Tangiers and training of its operators;
*  an institutional development program for ODEP, consisting of: (a) port operations related to the new
container terminal; (b) trade facilitation, including port procedures and information systems; (c)
investment planning; (d) environment and safety; (e) cost recovery; and (f) fixed assets management;
i an institutional development program for the Government, consisting of: (a) trade facilitation; (b)
investment planning; and (c) fixed assets management.
*  Consultant services (totaling about 410 man-months) to assist DP and DPCM, as well as ODEP. For
ODEP, the consultants were involved in the following activities: (a) detailed design of subprojects; (b)
civil works supervision; (c) information systems; (d) the maintenance dredging (environmental) study;
and (e) supplementary cost accounting studies. For DP and DPCM, the consultants were involved in:
(f) updating the National Port Master Plan; (g) developing criteria for environmentally sound disposal
of dredging materials; and (h) detailed design of subprojects; and
*  training programs for ODEP, DP, and DPCM, consisting of: (a) on-the-job training in project
supervision, to be provided by the consultants involved in this technical assistance; (b) training and
fellowships abroad for port planners and managers; and (c) visiting experts to organize workshops and
seminars in specialized areas.
Evaluation of objectives and risks.
6)     At appraisal, the objectives were deemed to be realistic and iri line with the Bank's strategy for
the transport sector; i.e., to improve planning of investments, make better use of existing facilities through
trade facilitation and logistics, improve the management of public enterprises, gradually eliminate
subsidies through a more flexible tariff system, and increase budgetary allocations for rehabilitation and
maintenance of infrastructure. The most important risk foreseen at appraisal was the viability of the port
investment program, based on forecasts of traffic levels and the distribution between containerized and
RoRo transport modes. This was addressed through a flexible design for the Casablanca terminal to
accommodate higher-than-expected traffic flows; the project included new equipment for both modes. The
forecasts implied a growth rate in unitized cargo of more than 5 percent a year through the year 2000,
compared to an actual average rate of 11. 1 percent a year, over the period of project implementation (1987
to 1997).



7
7)     An additional risk was related to the Borrowers' potential lack of commitment to implement the
institutional changes needed in terms of trade facilitation and logistics--a complex matter involving
various entities and requiring a strong capacity for coordination and decision-making. This risk was
identified in the SAR but was determined not to impair the benefit to be derived from the investments
planned at Tangiers and Casablanca. In regard to facilitation, the expected outcome has not yet been
achieved; however, ODEP made significant progress toward this goal through better coordination in the
field between customs and port services and initiation of a first stage of electronic data interchange (EDI)
with operators and shipping agents. However, the major policy issues regarding trade facilitation are
related to customs procedures and documentary credit, and need to be tackled at a higher level.
8)     Given the Government's commitment in past projects (Port Project, Public Enterprises
Restructuring Loan, Third and Fourth Highway Projects) to improving planning and coordination of
investments in the transport sector, increasing cost recovery, restructuring and increasing the autonomy of
public enterprises (PEs), and implementing a contrat plan with ODEP, any risks of poor performance by
the Government or ODEP were minimal. Both Borrowers performed satisfactorily, and ODEP's, DPCM's,
and DP's performance exceeded expectations. However, DMM, which was in charge of the VTS
component did not perform satisfactorily.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Sector policy and financial objectives.
9)     The financial and sector objectives can be summarized as follows: (a) improve planning of
investments; (b) make better use of existing facilities through trade facilitation and logistics, adapt
procedures and improve performance, and strengthen the economic viability of investments in the port
sub-sector; (c) improve the management of public enterprises and encourage development of port users
participation; (d) eliminate subsidies through a more flexible tariff system and increase cost recovery of
facilities; and (e) optimize budgetary allocations for rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure.
10)    In terms of financial performance, ODEP enjoys a healthy situation as a result of sound
management structure, increasing traffic, and new tariff structure put in place by the project (annex 3 table
1, 2, 3). Despite the slight decline in financial performance by the end of 1994, the financial ratios indicate
that ODEP performed well and improved its overall efficiency thereafter. ODEP has met its obligations
under Loan Agreement 3284-MOR. Its debt service coverage ratio is about 1.7 on average, above the 1.5
target set under the ongoing project. ODEP has a good liquidity ratio; the excess liquidity is being used for
anticipated reimbursement of some loan balance, which, coupled with careful planning investments and
related financing, will maintain ODEP's creditworthiness. ODEP's working and operating ratios decreased
from 64 to 56 percent and from 90 to 76 percent, respectively, and generated an added value of about 67
percent in 1990 and 72 percent in 1997. Its net income steadily improved from DH 7 million in 1990 to
DH 152 million in 1997. Similarly, its rate of return on fixed assets in operation has been satisfactory, at
about 13 percent in 1997. This performance indicates better control of operating expenses, mainly labor
expenses. ODEP continues to improve in efficiency and productivity through savings in expenses and
monitoring of its debt ratio, which is currently close to 45 percent, compared to 33 percent in 1990. ODEP
intends to lower its debt burden through management contracts and concession of facilities to the private
sector. For example, the Jorf Lasfar coal facility has been conceded to private operators and its equipment
sold to ONE.
11)    ODEP is increasingly financing new investments and rehabilitating existing public infrastructure,
and domain fees paid to the Government for the use of public property remain stable, not exceeding DH 55
million per year. ODEP has progressively taken over almost all management and other responsibilities for
port infrastructure. This transfer has enabled better identification of the real cost of operating port
infrastructure, and consequently, the application of appropriate charges for services delivered to port users;
i.e., more users fees oriented toward financing of port facilities. Thus, the financial commitment of the



8
Government has been reduced and the financing of rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure is
better timed. Currently, ODEP is not receiving any subsidies from the Government, and is carrying out
several measures to enhance its performance, including: (a) implementing a cost accounting system to
better monitor operational costs and port services pricing; and (b) transferring responsibilities linked to
fishing to another entity. Management is steadily improving, due in large part to the training program
provided to ODEP executives. ODEP has set up a computerized management and information system and
is progressively installing its various modules throughout the port network.
12)    Private sector participation in port operations is included in ODEP's agenda. In several ports,
private operators are licensed for stevedoring; andpilotage and towage are privately run in some cases.
The coal terminal at Jorf Lasfar is now under concession, and depending on the outcome of the current
negotiation on the Tangiers Atlantic project under a BOT concession scheme, the port of Tangiers may be
also operated under a concession arrangement. Moroccan port authority is currently putting in place a
partnership arrangement with the private sector for port management. The focus is on clearly
distinguishing between commercial functions, which would fall to private sector, and regulatory functions,
which would be under public authority. Under such a partnership arrangement ODEP could be a port
operator competing with private operators or a regulator in charge of activities that it would concede to the
private sector operators.
13)    The National Port Master Plan was updated under the project in 1995; it covers the development
of all of port activities, including fishing and yachting. One of the main issues was to identify a solution to
the growing congestion in the port of Tangiers, whose expansion capacity is limited. A study to assess
dredging needs in the medium and long term was also carried out. Consequently, Drapor an ODEP
subsidiary, has improved its dredging technique and begun to modernize its dredging fleet. Several
environmental studies were also carried out, including a comprehensive study of sediments dumping sites.
14)    Facilitation objectives have not yet been met. ODEP has already undertaken to set up an
electronic data interchange network and encourages port users, ship owners, and freight forwarders to
connect to this network. This is the first step in the process of getting various Moroccan entities and
companies involved in port activities to work together, sending and receiving information and commercial
data (manifests, information on calls, etc.) through an electronic network. The effectiveness of this
initiative will depend on the pace at which they develop the capacity to connect. The next step, which has
just been initiated by ODEP, is to get quality certification for two terminals: NCT at Casablanca and the
sulfur terminal at SAFI. The effort to improve terminal quality has led ODEP to define standards of port
operation that meet internationally recognized requirements for quality and productivity to and commit
itself to complying with these requirements. Only ODEP' s strong command of operational and
administrative procedures and its dedication to quality are making this process possible.
Physical objectives: Loan 3283-MOR to the Kingdom of Morocco.
15)    Maintenance of infrastructure, including breakwaters, was largely neglected in the past. In
addition, a heavy backlog of dredging works threatened to limit port access for the largest ships. The Port
Sector Project identified the most urgent works in the ports of Tangiers, Casablanca, and Agadir, and
successfully completed them under the responsibility of DP and DPCM. Following the updating of the
National Port Master Plan, rehabilitation at Tangiers was limited to one-third the amount initially
identified for the project; the remaining work is being carried out through a project financed by the
European Investment Bank (EIB). On November 14, 1995, taking into account the level of funds
committed by the Government and revised scope of the components, US$5 million of the loan was
canceled upon request of the Moroccan Government; the total investrnent cost for the rehabilitation of
breakwaters and dredging reached US$15.5 million and 13.4 million compared to US$33.0 million and
US$24.0 estimated at appraisal respectively (tables 8a, 8b). The dredging sub-component was closed in
1995, when the Government delegated the responsibility of maintenance dredging to ODEP.
16)    The other major investment under this loan was the VTS facility at Ras Parort, near Tangiers.
The VTS, designed to improve the security of maritime navigation through Gibraltar Straits, will provide
radar images of a ship and trace their trajectories on computerized navigation maps, thus providing a



9
useful tool for tracking and assisting to maritime traffic. Despite a two-year extension of the deadline, this
component was not completed because of: (a) DMM's lack of project management capacity and
experience; (b) DMM's unfamiliarity with Bank procurement and disbursement procedures; and (c) bad
weather, which hindered the installation of the second antenna at Ras Cires. By the end of June 1998, civil
works for the building to support the VTS radar and electronic devices were almost completed. DMM
plans to commission the VTS in the first half of 1999. Following the Government's request of June 1998
a total of FRF30.0 million was cancelled; the total cost of the VTS component was US$6.6 million
compared to US$11.0 million estimated at appraisal (table 8a, 8b).
Loan 3284-MOR to ODEP.
17)    The new facilities defined in the project addressed port capacity and adaptation issues. Because
of the project, Moroccan ports are now able to accommodate modem traffic and have achieved a
significant increase of unitized traffic. The new RoRo facility at Tangiers provides the extra berthing
capacity needed to rationally process steadily increasing passenger and RoRo traffic, even at simultaneous
peak times. From 1988 to 1997, overall general cargo traffic at Tangiers has grown an average of 13
percent a year. The NTC facility is performing well. In 1998, container ships are being handled around
the clock. The night shift is operated at no extra cost and the working schedule of customs is harmonized
with that of NTC. Regarding bulk traffic in Casablanca, ODEP and customs have agreed on the joint use
of weighing stations, leading to faster port operations. More generally, ODEP's increasing capacity to
take charge of infrastructure, in addition to port operations, is improving the viability of the port sector.
The total cost of ODEP's component has reached US$129.61 million compared to US$153.0 estimated at
appraisal (table 8a, 8b).
18)    The Casablanca Container Terminal was the main investment of the ODEP components. It
required technical and hydraulic studies, land reclamation and dredging, the construction of two berths
quay and a RoRo facility, road works and associated networks, and warehouses. The project provided two
container gantry cranes and various handling equipment such as straddle carriers and trailers. It also
provided extensive technical assistance for works supervision to help ODEP improve its capacity in work
supervision, and operational training to upgrade staff skills in the management of modem terminals. The
terminal was completed on schedule and is now fully operational. Some complementary works and
provision for additional handling equipment were agreed upon. Conversely, a large warehouse, planned to
isolate the stuffing/unstuffing function from the storage yards, was withdrawn from the program, due to
low demand for that kind of service. The projected new road link, which would have doubled the existing
gate, was dropped because of a too-low road traffic forecast.
19)    The handling performance target was set at 320 boxes per ship per day, starting from a low of
130 in 1989. In 1998, with the new round-the-clock organization, an equivalent productivity rate of 396
boxes per day has been recorded, well above the target given local constraints and consistent with good
international practice. In general throughout the world, container carriers are unloaded in less than a day,
using suitable handling equipment and methods; and overall performance can be notably improved when a
terminal is set up specifically to handle large ships.
20)    A rapid growth in ship size was expected after the commissioning of the terminal, which became
fully operational in late 1996. However, while the container traffic has been steadily increasing by 8
percent a year over the last decade, the size of the average shipment remains low-barely 150 boxes per
call, including import, export, and a high rate of exported empties. This limits port performance as well as
the potential benefits of containerization. However, the growth rate for this type of traffic is higher than
planned (5.1 percent), meaning that the realization of NTC addressed a real need. The new terminal has
not been operational long enough for shippers to adapt their practice to the new port services; there is,
however, high potential for improved productivity in container processing as practices improve.
21)    All indicators related to equipment availability are highly satisfactory and well above targets. In
regard to ship waiting time, the present result is just above the target but should rapidly improve with the
new 24-hour handling organization and as the average shipment size increases, thus reducing the number
of calls. The average dwell time for containers has been 13 to 14 days since 1993, compared to a 19-day



10
waiting time in 1989 but this is still well above the target of 10 days. This too-high dwell time is due to the
still extensive control by customs and to the slow pace of trade facilitation. However, the new terminal
offers large stacking areas and is able to compensate for a notably inflated stock of containers.
22)    The Tangiers RoRo ramp, built along the external breakwater (the last opportunity for setting
up new port facilities in this small port), has been used intensively since it was commissioned in 1995, and
provides extra capacity to handle the 13 percent annual growth of general cargo traffic over the last
decade.
23)    The Jorf Lasfar Coal Terminal was upgraded and new equipment installed; the total investment
cost amounted to US$20.72 million. The objective was to accommodate 80,000 tons dead weight (tdw) ore
carriers instead of the 40,000 tdw carriers calling when the project was designed, in order to benefit from
higher handling productivity and lower freight rates. As early as 1995, the average performance reached
13 to 16,000 tons per day, thus easily meeting the 12,000 ton per day target agreed upon between ODEP
and ONE. The new terminal is being managed by a private operator and the infrastructure concessioned to
ONE and the operator of the coal facility.
24)    All operational indicators have evolved as expected, except for two related to the handling of
commodities, which do not affect the operational content of the Port Sector Project (see table 5).
25)    Institutional development. The project has assisted ODEP in strengthening its operational and
managerial capacity, through training and apprenticeship provided by the consultants in charge of
technical assistance. The training program benefited 418 staff members for a total of 7,948 training days
and amounted to US$2.4 million. The management and port operation components represented
approximately 80 percent of the funding for 73 percent of management staff, and were extended through
subsequent partnership arrangements. The renewal of the contrat plan signed with the Moroccan
Government in 1995 helped ODEP to clarify its operational and financial responsibilities, and improved its
capacity to act as an autonomous enterprise. This document lays out contractual objectives and
responsibilities of ODEP as well as of the Government; it also deals with the tariff adjustment policy and
the evolution of fees to be paid by ODEP, in order to improve cost recovery and maintain its financial
viability.
26)    ODEP will progressively take over almost all the management and other responsibilities for port
infrastructure, as well as harbor mastering and development. The Moroccan Government, in the end, will
retain only the responsibility attached to breakwaters. Accordingly, ODEP has been financing new
investments and rehabilitating existing public infrastructure. The management of assets has improved and
the inventory and valuation of assets is ongoing. This progressive transfer of responsibilities will lead to
better identification of the real cost of operating port infrastructure and, consequently, to the application of
appropriate charges for services delivered to port users. However, it also might lead to a de facto monopoly
and progressively change ODEP's mission, namely developing commercial activities in ports. At the least,
some activities not directly linked to commercial traffic-mainly fishing and leisure activities-should be
entrusted to a separate entity. ODEP should avoid subsidizing fishing activities with commercial traffic so
as not to impair commercial competitiveness. In this regard, ODEP is studying ways with its overseeing
administration to reorganize the sector and create incentives for more private sector involvement (see para.
12).
Environmental impact.
27)    Even though the Port Sector Project was not subject to an environmental impact assessment,
environmental issues were assessed and potential impacts were identified from: (a) excavation of fill and
land reclamation in Casablanca, and (b) maintenance dredging in Moroccan ports. The potential impacts
from excavation and land reclamation had been addressed through previous studies and specific provisions
in civil works contracts. Filling products originated partly from dredging of the seabed, thus reducing
environmental hazards linked to the heavy trucking associated with fill work. The impacts of dredging had
been addressed in an Environment and Dredging Study completed in 1992; it showed that sediment was
not contaminated and did not require any specific treatment, and that the identified dumping zones were
acceptable. An additional study focused on the potential environmental impact of the last extension of the



11
port of Mohammedia, completed in 1994 and followed by a hydraulic experimentation of a scale model.
Another environmental issue had to do with various hazards, particularly dust emission, and oil spills
during port operations; ODEP agreed to design all facilities to be financed under the project according to
environmental, health, and safety standards acceptable to the Bank. ODEP is also co-beneficiary of a
regional oil pollution management project in the Mediterranean Sea. In regard to navigation safety and oil
spillage, the Moroccan environmental authorities were aware of potential hazards and, in the late 1980s,
had already started a series of training courses focused on the prevention of maritime pollution. The VTS
facility was included in the Port Sector Project for the same purpose: to avoid maritime collision and help
track oil spills, and thus contribute to protecting the environment.
Economic evaluation.
28)    Port activity has increased considerably during the project period. The bulk of the investment,
which has gone to the new container terminal for the port of Casablanca, has resulted in improved
operational efficiency. This in turn has led to increased profitability and higher returns on investment for
the port operators, namely ODEP (see annex for financial analysis). Important savings in foreign exchange
have resulted from this project, and benefited the transport sector in particular and the Moroccan economy
in general. The SHIPCOST model was used for the economic analysis and the results confirms the positive
impact of the project. The recalculated economic rate of return is 17.6 percent (see table 9 for assumptions
and calculations) given an average annual increase of container traffic of 7 percent. Furthermore, as trade
facilitation matures, the container terminal at Casablanca as well as other project components should
generate more revenues and savings for the Moroccan economy.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
29)   The capacity to conduct complex procedures including international tendering, managing
international contracts, and keeping to a schedule, as well as the capacity to commit adequate funding on
time, were the main prerequisites for smooth implementation of the program. The main components,
under the responsibility of ODEP, DP and DPCM were carried out satisfactorily; these included civil
works, technical assistance, and studies. Conversely, DMM was unable to overcome some shortcomings
in administrative procedures; consequently, the VTS subproject suffered considerable delays, which were
exacerbated by lengthy payment procedures at the Ministries of Fisheries and Treasury. The VTS
component is expected to be completed by March 1999, i.e., after approximately a three-year delay, with
the Government financing the remainder of this project through its budget.
30)   The other major factors affecting the Port Sector Project were related to the process of trade
facilitation and the capacity of public authorities to coordinate complex procedures. The facilitation
process was initiated in the previous decade and, up to now, has shown only a limited progress. The
cumbersome banking procedures (documentary credit), which account for nearly half the total dwell time
in Casablanca, the extensive control on imported goods by customs; and the delays in upgrading the
customs data processing system to conform to EDIFACT standards have affected the project and ODEP's
efforts to connect its information and telecommunication system (SIPOR) with the customs system
(SADOC).
31)   The trade facilitation component was under the responsibility of MPW  and ODEP as
implementing agencies, but these entities had no effective capacity to arbitrate or decide such complex
matters, which involve several ministries; therefore, they should not be held responsible for the present
shortcomings. In regard to improving ship and cargo dwell time and increasing port efficiency, further
efforts are needed to enhance customs and commercial bank procedures. In Morocco, the facilitation
process is expected to improve gradually, as the Trade Facilitation Commission, created in 1997 (and in
which ODEP takes an active part), improves the coordination of various departments and agencies.



12
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32)   Regarding the Government component, the backlog in maintenance of basic port infrastructure
was reduced; the new National Master Plan details investment and maintenance costs for the longer term.
This component included the improvement of the dredging sector through the restructuring of DRAPOR
and the operating fleet, and enhancement of the capacity for long-tern planning. In addition, MPW set
up a new contrat plan whereby it plans to progressively transfer its infrastructure maintenance
responsibilities to ODEP, leaving only breakwater maintenance at the ministerial level and give ODEP
full responsibility to set its tariff to meet these new requirements. Concerning the VTS component, once
implementation is complete it will contribute to the improvement of rnaritime navigation in the Gibraltar
Straits. The VTS training program has started so that operators will be ready when the VTS is
commissioned.
33)   Regarding the ODEP component, the new facilities can efficiently accommodate the expected
traffic: the Jorf Lasfar coal terminal performs well under a concession to ONE and a private operator; and
the Tangiers RoRo berth number 5 is fully operational and is helping the port authority to more easily
handle the joint peak periods of TIR and passenger traffic. The institutional, financial, and training
components were successful. The efficiency and financial performance of port sector institutions have
significantly improved, as has the capacity and skill levels of management and technical staff.
Partnership arrangements for training have been made with HEC Montreal, which was in charge of the
management training, and the port of Antwerp. It is noteworthy that ODEP has acquired valuable know-
how in the field of information systems and has already exported it within the framework of cooperation
projects in Senegal and Mauritania. In addition, ODEP and the Gjovernment have plans to create
incentives to attract private operators in developing and managing the sector (see para 12).
E. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34)    The Bank's identification, preparation and appraisal of the project were satisfactory. It should be
noted that the Bank correctly evaluated the risks associated with the project and performed satisfactorily
during supervision. The implementation of components managed by DP, DPCM, and ODEP, went
smoothly and were completed on schedule. Regarding the VTS cornponent managed by DMM, the
performance of the Borrower was unsatisfactory and, in spite of advice and warnings from the Bank, the
Moroccan Administration was not able to overcome the cumbersome procedures, which led to a nearly 3-
year delay (paras. 16 and 29).
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOM]E
35)   The overall project assessment is satisfactory. The project objectives were attained and ODEP
performed well in implementing its component and achieving its development and implementation
objectives including its institutional strengthening. Training was beneficial to ODEP staff, increasing
their skills and management capacity, and contributed to overall ODEP financial and operation
performance and efficiency. The DP performed well in carrying out its studies, including the Port Master
Plan and related investment program for the coming years, and the identification of a new port in
Tangiers. However, this satisfactory rating is qualified because of the outcome of the VTS component,
which was poorly run and not completed by DMM, as well as the coordination problems encountered in
the process of trade facilitation.
G. KEY LESSONS LEARNED



13
36)    Key lessons learned. The following factors appear to have been most important to the project's
success:
(a) separation of the loan into two parts, with the most important part lent directly to a well-
structured institution, ODEP, rather than being on-lent to that institution by the Government. This
facilitated cooperation between the Bank and ODEP, which was responsible for implementing most of the
components;
b) close cooperation between the Bank and the Borrowers during identification, preparation, and
supervision of the project, including openly discussing and seeking solutions to problems as they arose.
This approach ensured that the project responded to the Borrowers' needs, that the process of problem
solving enhanced the Borrowers' skills and reinforced their ownership of the project;
(c) regarding the outcome of the VTS component, it may be concluded that the budgetary and
technical responsibility of a subproject involving several departments should be assigned to a single
entity, with one person in charge. Direct disbursement should generally be promoted, but in the case of
that component could not solve problems linked to excessive budgetary regulation; and
(d) trade facilitation is too complex matter to be handled in a sub-sector project, unless a process
is defined at appraisal time where responsibilities are clearly apportioned, the objective itself is actively
endorsed by key players (Finance Ministry and customs), and private sector constituencies are already in
favor of reforms.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Table 1: Summary Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial       Partial      Negligible      Not Applicable
Macroeconomic                                                                                x
Sector policies                                             x
Financial objectives                       x
Institutional development                  x
Physical objectives                        x
Poverty reduction                                                                            x
Gender concerns                                                                              x
Other social objectives                                                                      x
Enviromnental objectives                   x
Public sector management                                    x
Private sector development                                  x
Other (indicate)                                                                            x
Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability           x                                      _
C. Bank Performance         Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                      x
Preparation                         x
Appraisal                           x
Supervision                         x
D. Borrower                 Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Performance
Preparation                         x
Implementation                                                x
Compliance with                     x
covenants
Operation (if applicable)                                     x
Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of                                              x
Outcome



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Table 2: Other Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                                 Objective                        Date of          Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Port Project               Improve operational efficiency and help maintain   Feb. 25, 1986    closed June 30,
(Loan 2657-MOR,            infrastructure in ports of Casablanca and                       1993
US$ 22 m)                  Mohammedia; decentralize port operations;
improve management and financial accountability
of ODEP; make provisions for tariff study.
Public Enterprises         Financial restructuring of public enterprises and    May 26, 1987  closed June 30,
Restructuring Loan (PERL)   implementation of contract plans clearly defining              1990
(Loan 2820-MOR,            respective responsibilities of PEs and
US$ 240 m)                 Government; preparation of contract plan
between Govermment and ODEP.
Subsequent Operations
none



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Table 3: Schedule
Stage of Project Cycle            Planned Date              Actual Date/Estimate
Identification                           Feb. 1989                   March 1, 1989
Preparation                             March 1990                    Oct. 19, 1989
Appraisal                                Feb. 1990                   March 12, 1990
Negotiation                              May 1990                     Nov. 5, 1990
Board presentation                       July 1990                    Dec. 20, 1990
Signing                                                               May 9, 1991
Effectiveness                            Oct. 1990                    Jan. 6, 1992
Loan closing                           June 30, 1996                  June 30, 1998



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Table 4: Loan/Credit/Disbursement; Cumulative Estimated and Actual Costs
Table 4a: Loan 3283/84-MOR (USD million)
(by fiscal year)
Loan 3284                  1991      1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997       1998
Appraisal Estimate-        1.60      26.70     52.00     81.60     95.80      99.00     99.00     99.00
Cumulative
Actual Cumulative          4.70      15.64     41.32     62.12     79.66      88.68     89.53     90.96
Actual as % of Estimate   _ 293.50    58.57    79.46     76.12     83.16      89.57     90.43     91.88
Loan closed on June 30, 1998
Loan 3283                  1991      1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997       1998
Appraisal Estimate-        0.50      5.20      15.50     27.50     32.40      33.00     33.00     33.00
Cumulative
Actual Cumulative          1.10      5.41      8.80      12.93     15.06      18.91     19.32     21.48
Actual as % of Estimate   220.00    104.08    56.75      47.01     46.49      57.30     58.55     65.09
Loan closed on June 30, 1998
Loan to Moroccan Government was converted to single currency loan. This table aggregates all disbursements under 3283-
MOR.
Cancellations, after conversion totaled 10.66 US$ million



'9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Table 4b: Loan disbursement graphs
Port Sector Project: Loan 3284-MOR
120.00
U0                                                                                        _ Appraisal Estimate-
CumTjative
100.00  . I_                                                                *
O              1_ I                                                                       -.. -.1 Actua Currulative
0       80.00                                           ___-_ __      ---___   ---__ _ L
c       60.00                    _
w       40.00    _                       _
E
cn      20.00   _____-
0.00-
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996           1997    1998
Fiscal Year
Port Sector Project: Loan 3283-MOR
35.00  ____
~~~ ~~~~        Appraisal LSireTe--
C)                                              e                                               I' Cumulative
tl)     30.00                                                                           .  . . Actua Cunrulative
25.00                                                                     _
0
20.00 _              __              . __   _                        , -  U
15.00 -   --'- __.___                                                 ___
E
U)      10.00
5.00
0.00 L
1991    1992    1993    1994       1995    1996    1997    1998
Fiscal Year



20
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Table 5.1: Key Indicators for Project Implementation / Operation
Key operating indicator in SAR                  Estimated             Actual
cargo handling prod. (ton/ship/day)  sugar bulk               3,500               3,551
cargo handling prod. (ton/ship/day)  timber                   2,000                1,373
cargo handling prod. (ton/ship/day)  bags                      800                 541
cargo handling prod. (ton/ship/day)  containers                320                 396
average ship waiting time (hour)                                2                   3
dwell time of cargo (day)            containers                 10                 13.4
dwell time of cargo (day)            general cargo              10                 12.9
equipment availability (%)           cranes                     88                 92.5
equipment availability (%)           straddle-carriers          80                 82.9
equipment availability (%)           fork-lifts                 88                 83.1
a: cargo handling productivity in t/ship/day; b: average ship waiting time (h); c: dwell time of cargo & containers (day);
d: equipment availability (%)
Key Indicators for Project Implementation / Training
Topic:            1993            1994            1995            1996            1997             1998
staff   days   staff   days    staff   days   staff   days   Staff   days    staff   days
Management             43   1119       45     990       24    552       20    522                      132   3183
Exploitation           26    712       68    1275      28    521        51    806                      173    3314
Infrastructures         12    264      44     345        9    194                                       65      803
Information System                                      20    270                       28     378      48      648
Total                  81   2095      157   2610        81   1537       71   1328       28     378     418      648



21
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                   Purpose                                  Status               Impact
Tariff study            Complement tariff study financed under   submitted in early   preparation of
previous project (Loan 2657-MOR);        1992                 contract-plan
determine impact of increased tariffs on
productivity re: general cargo, fishing ports,
etc.; to be completed by ODEP in 1992.
Updating of National    Determine infrastructure and institutional  submitted in mid 94   - long-term planning
Port Master Plan,       needs of ports; to be completed by                              of investment
Directorate of Ports (DP) and reviewed with                   - Project: "Tangiers
Bank before Dec. 31, 1991.                                      Atlantic"
Dredging studies.       Optimization of dredging:                submitted in mid 92   adaptation of
. assess long terms needs in Morocco's ports                  dredges by
. improve dredging techniques                                 DRAPOR; planning
. increase productivity                                       of Morocco's ports
. optimize dredges fleet
Dredging and environmental study:
Environmental studies    . Develop criteria for environmentally sound   submitted in mid 92   adaptation of
. disposal of dredging materials; to be                       dredging program of
. completed by DP and reviewed with Bank                      Morocco's ports
by Dec. 31, 1991.
Impact of extension of Mohammedia        submitted in mid 94
On shore line



22
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Table 7: Summary of project costs (in million USD)
SAR's estimates
local      Foreign       total
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO: sub-total                        32           39          71
DP - DPCM: sub-total                      27           33           60
- Casablanca - Mohammedia                  4            4            8              major sub-project:
- Other breakwater rehabilitation         12           13           25              Container Terminal @ Casa.
- dredging                                 6            9           15              Coal handling facility @ Jorf Lasfar
- other programs                           4            5            9              RoRo facility @ Tangiers
- studies - training                        1           2            3              Technical Assistance & Training
DMM: sub-total                             5            6           11               major sub-project:
- Infrastructure                                                     3              Vessel Traffic System @ Gibraltar Straits
- Equipment                                                          8
ODEP                                                 71           82         153               major sub-project:
- Infrastructure                          48           48           96              Container Terminal @ Casablanca
- Equipment                               18           27           45              Coal handling facility @ Jorf-Lasfar
- Other programs                           2            3            5              RoRo facility @ Tangiers
- studies - training                       3            4            7              Technical Assistance & Training
- total base costs                       103          121          224
- physical contingencies                   9            9           18
- price contingencies                     19           21           40
TOTAL                                               131          151         282
Financement                                         131          151         282       Agencies in charge of implementing
IBRD                                    21.1        110.9          132      Gvt    MPW, via DPCM              Casablanca
ongoing IBRD                                          4.4          4.4                                        Mohammedia
ongoing African Dev. Bank                             5.9          5.9              MPW, via DP               other ports
ODEP                                    75.1         15.7         90.8              MFMM, via DMM             VTS
Government                              34.8         14.1         48.9
131         151          282      ODEP                              all components



23
S.A.R.                        INITIAL ALLOCATION OF LOANS (M US$ - base: March 1990)
Kingdom of Morocco
- breakwater rehabilitation                                  9.9
- dredging                                                   6.3
- Marine Security                                            6.6
- Miscellaneous Equipment                                    0.6
- Consulting Services                                        2.2
- Overseas training                                          0.2
- Unallocated                                                7.2
total amount:                                                 33
ODEP
- Civil works for Casa. Cont. Tertninal                     36.1
- Tangiers RoRo facility Civil Works                         3.9
- Jorf-Lasfar Coal Facility Civil Works                      8.5
- Container Handling Equipment                              12.7
- Coal Handling Equipment                                    9.5
- Other Equipment                                            1.1
- Consulting Services                                        3.9
- Overseas training                                            2
- Unallocated                                               21.3
total amount:                                                 99



24
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/84-MOR)
Table 8.a: IBRD financing Costs (in millions of US$)
Items                  Total      Total
Kingdom of Morocco
breakwater rehabilitation                 9.9        9.4
dredging                                  6.3        8.3
Marine Security                           6.6        1.4
Miscellaneous Equipment                   0.6
Consulting Services                       2.2        2.4
Overseas training                         0.2
Unallocated                               7.2
Total amount:                               33       21.5
ODEP
Civil works for Casa. Cont. Terminal     36.1       39.0
Tangiers RoRo facility Civil Works        3.9        1.6
Jorf-Lasfar Coal Facility Civil Works     8.5        0.9
Mohammedia dredging                                  2.3
Container Handling Equipment             12.7       21.8
Coal Handling Equipment                   9.5       18.5
Other Equipment                           1.1        1.8
Consulting Services                       3.9        2.7
Overseas training                           2        2.4
Unallocated                              21.3
Total amount:                               99       91.0
The above table is based on data from the SAR and from the Borrowers' Completion Reports.
Table 8.b: Project costs and Financing (in millions of US$)
Appraisal estimates (US$ M)                      Actual / latest estimate (US$ M)
Source           Local costs   Foreign costs       Total         Local costs       Foreign costs      Total
IBRD - IDA                      21.1           110.9            132         11.5             101.0            112.5
Ongoing IBRD                                     4.4            4.4          Na                Na              Na
Ongoing African Dev.                              5.9            5.9         Na                Na              Na
Bank
ODEP                            75.1             15.7          90.8         39.6                              39.6
Government                      34.8             14.1          48.9         14.2                              14.2
TOTAL                           131.0           151.0         282.0          65.3             101.0           166.3
The above table is based on data from the SAR and from the Borrowers' Completion Reports.



25
Implementation Completion report: Port Sector Project- Kingdom of Morocco
Table 9 A: Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
Container berths (US$ million)
ERR (Base Case)                                    Sensitivity Analysis
Costs                            Net                Costs    Benefits
Capital    Maint-             Total       Cash              (+15%)   (-15%)   (1) & (2)
Year               Invest.   enance   Total    Benefits    Flow                  (1)        (2)    Combined
1992                13.87                13.87               (13.87)              (15.95)   (13.87)   (15.95)
1993                17.48                17.48               (17.48)              (20.10)   (17.48)   (20.10)
1994                27.91               27.91                (27.91)              (32.10)   (27.91)   (32.10)
1995                15.52                15.52               (15.52)             (17.85)   (15.52)   (17.85)
1996                 1.71      6.64       8.35     13.01      4.66                 3.41       2.71      1.46
1997                 4.54     11.70      16.24     15.59     (0.65)               (3.09)    (2.99)    (5.42)
1998                 0.60     11.53      12.13     18.23      6.10                 4.28       3.37      1.55
1999                          11.33      11.33     21.12      9.79                 8.09       6.62      4.92
2000                          11.12      11.12     24.13     13.01                11.34       9.39      7.72
2001                          10.92      10.92     27.05     16.13                14.49      12.07     10.43
2002                          10.72      10.72     30.32      19.60               17.99      15.05     13.44
2003                           9.62       9.62     33.98     24.36                22.92      19.26     17.82
2004                           9.59       9.59     38.09     28.50                27.06      22.78     21.35
2005                           9.44       9.44     42.69     33.25                31.83      26.85     25.43
2006 /_1                      15.29      15.29     46.52     31.23                28.94      24.25     21.96
2007                           8.85       8.85     50.70     41.85                40.52      34.24     32.92
2008                           8.47       8.47     55.25     46.78                45.51      38.49     37.22
2009                           8.04       8.04     60.21     52.17                50.96      43.14     41.93
2010                           7.54       7.54     65.61     58.07                56.94      48.23     47.10
2011                           7.48       7.48     66.99     59.51                58.39      49.46     48.34
2012                           8.21       8.21     68.40     60.19                58.96      49.93     48.70
2013                           7.18       7.18     69.85     62.67                61.59      52.19     51.11
2014                           7.12       7.12     71.32     64.20                63.13      53.50     52.43
2015                           7.06       7.06     72.82     65.76                64.70      54.84     53.78
Total                   81.63    187.85    269.48    891.86    622.38                581.96    488.60    448.18
ERR=                   17.6%                15.4%      15.0%     12.9%
NPV (12%) =              46.9                 30.9      23.9       7.9
/-1: Major maintenance.
Sources: The Port Authority and Bank staff.



26
Table 9 B: Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
(Container Berths)
Existing               New
container            container
berths               berths
Berths (number)                                              2                     2
Cranes per berth (number)                                   0.5                  1.0
Average crane productivity per hour (TEUs) /-1              22                    22
Average working hours per day (hours)                      20.0                 20.0
Throughput capacity per berth (TEUs/day)                   220 /_2               440
Berth operating days per year (days)                       320                   320
Maximum annual capacity per berth ('000 TEUs)              35.2                 70.4
Ship arrivals (scheduled/unscheduled)                Unscheduled           Unscheduled
Average ship size (TEU)                                    500 1_3               500
Average shipment size (TEU)                                 150                  150
Cargo value (USS$TEU)                                     2,350                2,350
Average daily ship cost in port (US$/day)                 6,600                6,600
Unloading/loading cost (USS/TEU) / 4                       135                   135
Notes:
(i) theoretical daily berth capacity =cranes per berth x average crane productivity per hour x average wvor kin,g hours per days
(ii) theoretical annual berth capacity = theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operating days per year
(iii) maximum annual capacity per berth = theoretical annual berthi capacity x maximum berth utilization.
/-1. 1 teu =   12.80 tons.
/2. For lightening operation, throughput capacity is taken as 50% of normal berth throughput capacity.
/_3. Equivalent to 7,200 dwt per ship.
t4. Figures in the table are the costs for normal berth handling, If cargo traffic exceeds 95% berth
occupancy rate, additional cargo will be handled by lightening at roughly three times the costs for
normal berth handling.
Sources: The Port Authority and Bank staff.



27
Table 9 B (continued)Cargo Handling Without And With Proposed Berths
(Container Berths)
1992      1993       1994      1995       1996        1997      199S       1999      2000       2005      2010       2015
A. TRAFFIC DEMAND ('000 TEUs) LI              117.2     121.3      135.4     148.3      151.1       158.4     169.5      181.4      194.1     272.2      381.8     535.5
B. WITHOUT PROJECT
Existing Container Berths:                                         /12        /12        /12         / 2        /12       /12        /12      /12         / 2       /2
1. Berths (nuber)                               2         2          2         2          2           2         2          2         2          2          2         2
2. Traffic ('000 TEUs)                      117.2      121.3     135.4      14S.3     151.1        ISS.4     169.5    11.4       194.1      272.2     3S1.0      535.5
3. Annual ship berth days required            533       S51        615       674        607         7Z0       770        025        082      1,237     1,735      2,434
4. Annual ship berth days availbte            640       640        640       640        640         640       640        640        640       640        640       640
5. Berth occupancy rate (%)                    83        86         95        95         95          95        95         95        95         95         95        95
6. Waiting tiroe queuing factors             1.11       1.44      4.34       4.34      4.34        4.34       4.34      4.34       4.34       434       4.34      4.34
7. Annual total ship port days:
a. Actual ship berth days            533       551        608       608        608         608       608        608        608       608        608       608
b. Ship waiting days                 593       793      2,669      2,925     2,902       3,125      3,342     3,581      3,820      5,369     7,530    10,564
e. Ship lightening days                0         0         14       132        150         224        324       434        548      1,250     2,254      3,652
Total ship port days     1.12_     1,344      3.291     3.665      3.748       3,957      4,274     4,623      4.984     7,235     10.392    14.824
C. WITH PROJECT
Existing Container Berths:                                          /_2      /12                                                                                    / 2
1. Berths (number)                              2         2          2         2          2           2         2          2         2          2          2         2
2. Traffic(O00T EUs)                        117.2      121.3     135.4      148.3      76.0        53.0       57.0      60.0       65.0       91.0     127.0      179.0
3. Annual ship berth days required            533       551        615       674        345         241       259        273        295       414        577       814
4. Annual ship berth days available           640       640        640       640        640         640       640        640        640       640        640       640
5. Berth occupancy rate (%)                    0:1       86         95        95         54          30        40         43        46         65         90        95
6. Waiting time queuing factors              1.11       1.44      4.34       4.34      0.04        0.01       0.01      0.01       0.02       0.08      0.92       2.08
1. Annual total ship port days:
a. Actual ship berth days            533       551        608       608        345         241        259       273        295       414        577       608
b. Ship waiting days                 593       793      2,669      2,925        12           2          3         4          6        35        531      1,693
c. Ship lightening days                0         0         14       132          0           0         0          0          0         0          0       412
Total ship port days     1,126    1344       3,291     3,665       357          243       262        277       301        449     1L108      2,713
New Container Berths:                                                                    13                                                                        /12
1. Berths (unmber)                                                                        2           2         2          2         2          2          2         2
2. Traffic ('000 TEUs)                                                                 75.1       105.4      112.5     121.4      129.1      181.2     254.8      356.5
3. Annual ship berth days required                                                      341         240       256        276        293       412        579       S10
4. Annual ship berth days available                                                     640         640       640        640        640       640        640       640
5. Berth occupancy rate (%)                                                              53          38        40         43        46         64         90        95
6. Waiting time queuing factors                                                        0.04        0.01       0.01       0.02      0.02       0.08      0.92       2.08
7. Annual total ship port days:
a. Actual ship berth days                                                      341         240       256        276        293       412        579       608
b. Ship waiting days                                                            12           2          3         4          6        35        533      1,685
c. Ship lightening days                                                          0           0          0         0          0         0          0       404
Total ship port days                                                353         242        259        200       299        447      1.112     2,697
Notes:    (i) annual ship berth days required = traffieltheoretical daily capacity per berth.
(ii) annual ship berth days available - umber of berths x berth operating days per year.
(iui) berth occupancy rate = ann ual ship berth days required / annual ship berth days available.
(iv) waiting time queuing factors are from Port Development, UNCTAD 1985, and Berth throughput, UNCTAD, 1973.
(v) annual ship waiting days  annual ship berth required x woiting time qaeuing factors.
/_I. Includes foreign, domestic (in/out), loaded and empty containers
/I2. Traffic would exceed the practical capacity of these bertlss. For the purpose of the economic evaluation it has been
assumed that ways will be found, e.g., through lightening, to move the traffic through the port with waiting times
not exceeding those corresponding to 95% berth occupancy rate.
/_3: Completed on June 1996.
Sonrces! The Port Authority and Bonk staff.



28
Table 9 C: Load/unloading Cost Savings
Container Berths
1996       1997      1998      1999      2000      2005      2010      2015
A. Traffic demand ('000 TEUs)                        151.1       158.4    169.5    181.4       194.1     272.2    381.8    535.5
B. Berth capacity at 95% occupancy rate ('000 TEUs)
Without project                            133.8       133.8    133.8      133.8     133.8     133.8    133.8    133.8
With project                               267.5       267.5    401.3      401.3     401.3     401.3    401.3    401.3
C. Traffic handling ('000 TEUs)
Without project    Berth                   133.8       133.8    133.8      133.8     133.8    133.8    133.8    133.8
Lightening               17.3       24.6      35.7      47.6      60.3     138.4    248.0    401.7
Total                  151.1      158.4    169.5    181.4       194.1     272.2    381.8    535.5
With project       Berth                   151.1       158.4    169.5      181.4    194.1      272.2    381.8    401.3
Lightening               0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0     134.2
Total                  151.1      158.4     169.5    181.4    194.1       272.2     381.8    535.5
D. Loading/unloading costs (US$ million)
Without project    Berth                   18.97       18.97     18.97     18.97     18.97     18.97     18.97     18.97
Lightening               7.71      10.96     15.90     21.21     26.86     61.66    110.48    178.96
Total                  26.68      29.93     34.87     40.18     45.83     80.63    129.45    197.93
With project       Berth                   21.42       22.45     24.03     25.71     27.51     38.58     54.12     56.88
Lightening              0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     59.79
Total                  21.42      22.45     24.03     25.71     27.51     38.58     54.12    116.67
E. Net loadinglunloading savings (US$ million)        5.26        7.48     10.84     14.47     18.32     42.05     75.33     81.26
Notes:    I . The conversion factors for handling cost are: (a) At berth 1.05; and (b) Lightening 1.10.
2. Lighting costs are taken to be three times handling costs at berth.
Sources: The Port Authority and Bank staff.



Table 9 D: Economic Benefits
Container Berths
(US$ million)
1996        1997       1998      1999       2000       2005      2010       2015
Ports: Loading/unloading savings               5.26         7.48      10.84     14.47      18.32     42.05      75.33      81.26
Ships port days savings                       20.05        22.92     24.77      26.84      28.93     41.84      53.94      62.13
Cargo port days savings                        0.71         0.79      0.86       0.94       1.01       1.49      1.96       2.25
Less:
Benerits accruing to foreigners (50%)       13.01        15.60     18.24      21.13      24.13     42.69      65.62      72.82
Total                               13.01       15.59      18.23      21.12     24.13      42.69      65.61     72.82
Note: 1. Opportunity cost of capital for cargo is assumed to be    12.00%
Sources: The Port Authority and Bank staff.



30
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/84-MOR)
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Latest status of Covenant Compliance  MNA - Middle East & North Africa Region             MNSID - Infrastructure Development Group
Form 590 Date: 04/15/1998                                                                Project ID: MA-PE-5433 -PORT SECTOR
Original     Revised
Covenant               Fulfll      Fulfill
Class(s)   Status      Date         Date         Description of Covenant                  Comments
Agreement: GOVT Loan Number: IBRD -32830
Ref: 3.01(a)       10         C       12/31/1991   08/31/1994    Updating of Port Master DP            Study completed. Final report
(Direction des Ports).              issued and approved.
Ref: 3. 01 -b (i)   06        C       12/31/1991                 Dredging environmental and            study completed.
operating study - DP.
Ref: 3.03(a)       11         C       09/30/1991                  Port investment program with         Completed.
proposed plan for its financing.
Ref: 4.01(b)       0 1        C                                   Audit of Project Account.            Report submitted.
Ref: 4. 01 (c)     01         C                                   Audit of Special Account and         Report submitted.
statement of expenditures.
Agreement: ODEP Loan Number: IBRD -32840
Ref: 3.02(a)       11         C       09/30/1991   09/30/1991    investment program and proposed       Completed.
financing plan.
Ref.: 3.04(a)      10         C       06/30/1991   06/30/1991    contract plan between the             Signed in July 1991. Plan 1994-
Govemment and ODEP.                  98 signed by Ministry of Finance
on May 22, 1995.
Ref.: 3.05         10         C       06/30/1991                  Agreement between ODEP               Signed in September 1993.
and ONE in reference to
Jorf-Lasfar Coal Terminal.
Ref: 4.0-5         10         CP      12/31/1992                  Implementation of ODEP's             Most of program has been comp-
development program.                 leted, remaining works underway.
Ref:. 5. 01        01         C                                  Audit of ODEP's financial state-     Report submitted.
ments and project accounts.
Ref: 5.02          02         C                                   Annual return of 7% of net value     Met.
of fixed assets in operation.
Ref.: 5.03         02         C                                   Debt service ratio of at least 1.5   Met.
times the debt service.
Ref 5 04          05          C      09/30/1991                  New tariff schedule                  Implementation mostly comp-
leted. New tariff increase went
into effect on January 1, 1995.
Covenant  I Accounts/audit                                             Status   C        - Complied with
Class     2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries           CD       - Compliance after Delay
3 Flow and utilization of Project funds                              NC       - Not Complied with
4 Counterpart funding                                                SOON    - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
5 Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency       CP       - Complied with Partially
6 Environmental covenants                                            NYD      - Not Yet Due
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people                                 I 1     Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
9 Monitoring, review and reporting                  12      Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
10 Implementation                                   13       Other



31
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Table 11: Bank Resources -- Staff
(in $000)
Stage of Project Cycle        Planned*       Actual       Planned*      Actual
(weeks)       (weeks)       (US$)        (US$)
Preparation                            n.a           84.2          n.a         233.1
Appraisal                              n.a           24.8          n.a          75.7
Negotiation through Board Approval     n.a           18.6          n.a          57.6
Supervision                            n.a          124.0          n.a         395.4
Completion/closing                     n.a           8.7           n.a         27.5
TOTAL                                   260.3                     789.3
*Figures not available before 1996.



32
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Table 12: Bank Resources -- Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of       Month/        No. of      Staff-      Specialized Staff    Implementation Development          Type of Problem
Project Cycle   Year         Persons    Weeks in   Skills Represented    status            objectives
Field
1986-90         30         173.9    Port Engineer                        n.a                              n.a
Through                                              Economist
Appraisal                                            Financial Analyst
Consultants
1990-91         12         45.6      Port Engineer                       n.a                              n.a
Appraisal                                            Economist
through Board                                        Financial Analyst
Approval                                             Consultants
Post Approval   Oct. 1991        3          4.5      Port Engineer              I                             Assess contract plan between
Pre-                                                 Economist                                                ODEP and Govemment;
Effectiveness -                                      Transport Econ.                                          progress of studies, bidding
Supervision                                                                                                   documents for procurement
for civil works.
Supervision    Jan.-Feb.         2           4       Port Engineer              I                I            Discuss project
1992                                 Financial Analyst                                        implementation and costs,
procurement and construction
of civil works, technical
assistance, environmental
studies, updating of Port
Master Plan, ways to improve
progress reports.
June-July        1          1.2      Port Engineer              I                I            Review reports on Port
1992                                                                                          Master Plan phases I and 2;
progress of dredging study
and dredging works; progress
of other civil works; discuss
ODEP's proposal for
technical amendments;
training of ODEP executives.
Jan. 1993        1          1.6      Port Engineer              I                1            Review report on Port Master
Plan phase 3; progress of
civil works; scheduled start of
environmental studies;
progress of dredging works;
proposed technical
amendments; start of training
of ODEP executives,
scheduled for April 1993.



33
June 1993        1          1.6     Port Engineer              I                I            Review final report for phase
3 of Port Master Plan
(amendments suggested) and
set schedule for reporting on
phases 4 and 5; discuss
progress of dredging and civil
works; first training seminar
for ODEP executives, held in
April-May 1993; ODEP's
preparations for
Communications Master Plan
Study.
Dec. 1993       2           3       Port Engineer              I               I            Discuss progress of
Financial Analyst                                       amendments to phase 3 of
Port Master Plan report and
delayed starting of phase 4;
proposed expansion of
dredging component; testing
of environment protection
arrangements proposed in
environmental study of
Mohammedia port area;
successes and short-comings
of training; TORs for
Communic-ations Master
Plan Study and ODEP
Strategic Planning Study;
renegotiation of contract-
plan.
June-July        2         4.6      Port Engineer              HS              HS            Discuss final report for phase
1994                                Financial Analyst                                       4 of Port Master Plan;
expansion of dredging
component; progress of civil
works; improvements in
training; ToRs for
Communic-ations Master
Plan Study and ODEP
Strategic Planning study;
contents of new contract-plan.
Dec. 1994        2         2.6      Port Engineer              HS              HS           Discuss final conclusions of
Financial Analyst                                       Port Master Plan study; Port
Directorate's dropping of
request to expand dredging
component; progress of civil
works; ToRs for Coastal
Management Study;
improvements in training;
ToRS for Communications
Master Plan Study; revision
of new contract-plan;
identification of possible new
project as per
recommendations of Port
Master Plan.



34
June 1995        1            1      Port Engineer               HS              HS             Discuss possible new port
sector project based on
recommendations of Port
Master Plan; completion of
dredging works; progress of
civil works; extension of
training for fourth year and
revision of content according
to identified needs; ToR for
Communications Master Plan
Study.
Dec. 1995        2           1.5     Port Engineer               HS               HS            Discuss ways to involve the
Financial Analyst                                        private sector in port
operations and financing of
new port; completion of most
civil works; implementation
of modem information and
telecommunications system
in ODEP.
May 1996         2           3        Port Engineer              HS               HS            Discuss near completion of
Financial Analyst                                         all components, except for
navigation safety (VTS)
component, which will
require 18 month extension of
closing date, to Dec. 1997;
possibility of private
financing for Port of Tangiers
through BOT scheme;
progress of study for future
dredging works; completion
of training of ODEP
executives.
May 1997         1           1.4      Port Engineer              HS               HS            Discuss completion of all
components except for further
delay in VTS component,
which will require further
extension of closing date, to
June 30, 1998; financing of
Communications Master Plan
Study by ODEP; successful
training of more than 90% of
ODEP executives; use of
remaining funds by ODEP
and Ministry of Merchant
Marine; possible future
project focused on trade and
transport issues.
Dec. 1997        1          0.6      Financial Analyst           S               HS             Discuss final implementation
schedule for VTS component
and delays in payments to
VTS to contractors, which
has caused a work stoppage;
financial performance of
ODEP; dispute over
additional works for
Casablanica Container
Termninal.



35
Completion/
Closing        July 1998        3          0.7      Financial Analyst         S               HS            Discuss final implementation
Economist                                               schedule, construction and
Port Engineer                                           procurement of equipment for
VTS and related payment
issues. Advise Borrower that
project must be completed by
June 30, 1998; no further
delays will be authorized.
Other project supervision and development missions took place (to Paris and Tunis) after December 1993.
Perfonnance Ratings: HS - Highly satisfactory.  I - Satisfactory.  2 - Moderate problems.  3  Major problems.  U - Unsatisfactory.



36
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
ANNEXES



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Annex 1
ODEP's comments on the draft report taken into account in the final version of the ICR



ROVAUmE OU mAOOC
- cO_fomce
*    J' h)u:   --- | fi          D'Exploltatorn deu Arft
' i k U~~~~~ J         C 't  1-  -  '  .,  -,  -; ;"    t
i,-.,.,,'~~~~~~~~~~~ -.-,'''  .5
Si yoga ne reove pus eouteo le pug. ~ifl  merm iozWi uut qua pouibe:
TEE:X  2531.8'
OBJET :Remnarques relevees suite a. l'exaxnen dui Projet
de Rapport d'achevement du Projet Sectoriel
Monsieur.
Suite a. votre demnande, veuillez trouver, cl-joint les rernarques
relevees suite a. l'examen du projet de rapport d'achevemient du Projet
Sectoriel.
VeuiUlez agreer, Monsieur, I'expression de mes salutations
dist5rnguees.
Le Directeur du D6veloppemexnt
Mobamed DENADDENNXiB
5. 80 Adofned Zsr,tO.i . 201* c CatatieabMCS , Mo   el 232 n S 120 I. 0.1 - Fw . 223 36125'?  7ti 28790 q14  7Z n-  _1- .I  L  i >:3 t- ;100..



REVARQUES REIZVFES 8ETE A L
DU PR WET DE RAPPORT D'ACVgE
DU PROJET SEC7'oRtEL
PREFACE W?age 1)
Le paragraphe 3 du preface precise que le montant non dAcaisse est
de 6.65 Milons de USS au lieu de 8.05 Millons US$ obtenu comme
suit:
Mortartt non decasse                 6.65 Millions de US$
Rembousement par l'ODEP le 20/11/98
du solde du compte special BIRD d'un
montant de 13.133.558,40 DH. soft
rdqutvalent de:                      1,04 MWlDons de US$
T0rAL           8,05 MiUions de US$
Point 1O: Page 4
Il a &tA relevu dans ce projet de rapport la citation suivante 7'ODEP
envisage, dans le cadre du nouveau port de Tanger Atlantique de
siner un contrat de concession avec un operateur priv% pour La
gestion de ce port".
Je vous rappelle que le projet de rdalisation du port de Tanger
Atlanttque est du ressort du Ministere de l'Equipement, qut arretero.
les modalit6s de fonctionnement et de gestlon de ce port.
~ Point 4: Page 7
ll est prdclsd dans ce paragraphe que parmi les projets
d'investtssement retenus dans le cadre de ce contrat de pret fgure
['acquisitton d'un rnouvel dquipement pour la manutention des graines
d Agadir.
Ce projet rna dtd nf rdalis6. niriancd par l'ODEP.
~ Point 9: Pae 8
Le projet de rapport precise que ce pret ufse la realLsatton d'object(fs
ftnanciers et sectorfels. dont I'amndllorat ion de la gestion des
entreprises publiques et rencouragement du ddueloppement de la
parttc4pation du secteur prud.
Cet objectff n'dtait pas prevu dans Le contrat de pret ODEP-BIRD
3284 MOR,;



- Poiunt Io .Paso 9
Point 23: PcW .12
Point 33: Poe 14
Dernierp     r       :Pe 36
n1 a &te tndlqu* que les tquIpements du terminal charbonnier ont W
cddfs par l'ODEP 4 un opdrateur prtuv.
En effet. ces dquipements etaient ctdds 41 ONE. qul les a concedes
d lop$rateur ABB/CMS socLAth JLE.
-  Point 24: Page 12
Lobjectif concernant ta couverture du service de la dette est de
garantir un nweau minmunm de 1,5, et non 1,4 tel que signaLd dans
ce projet de contrat.
~ Point 28: Page 13
Un autre avantage d ojouter au projet. au meme Utre que le tracfc
conteneurs mentfonnrue concerne les activLtds du Terminal RORO du
port de Tanger. nocamment Le trafic de passagers, qut a connu une
augnmentation de 16% par rapport 4 1996 atteignant ainsi le chiffre
global de 1.882.716 passagers. De mAme, dans le cadre de sa
strat6gie tartfaire. I'ODEP a mntrodulit la facturatlon d runite en
cornformltLs, avec les pratiques intematlonales, pour le trafic
conteneurs.
-  Point 31: Page 14
Saglissant de son ouvertue sur 'enuvronnement national, l'ODlEP a
joua wu role dynarnique darts Le cadre de la nouvelle instance crcLe
par Les autorttls publiques marocaires en l'occurence le ConselL
National de Commnerce Extdrieur (CNCE). La mission prinipal de ce
conseil corsiste 4 promouvoir et dynamtser les echanges exterieurs
dupays.
En effet. L'ODEP est d la fois membre du bureau de ce consetl et
representte au niveau de ses trois commissions:
 Commission de developpement de l'informatLon sur le
commerce ext4rieur .
* Commission de la Prornotion du Maroc 4 r'6tranger:
* Commission de simplification des proc*dures de commerce
ext&rteur.



ZL est 4 prcisd qeen iattre de facUtalon des procecLdres de
comnerce exterleur, les efforts engagds par le Consetl National du
Commerce &Etereur. se sont tradi&ts par une mellleure perceptton
des besoins et permettront d'acc#lArer la mise en place des
prxAdures de facilitation.
00  Atal ypejnc We: Page 34, 35 et 36
L'analyse flnancitre se base sur des donrtes dans leur mojorit6,
erronres notamyment les comptes de produits et de charges
(INCOME STATEMENTS) et les bilans IBALANCE SHEET) pour La
pdrode' 1990-1997.
La situation rdelle de ces etats financiers fait apparaftre des
performances nettement melUeures que ce qul est precise dans le
cadre de I'analyse financt6re fatsant partie de ce projet de rapport
(c-joint les bilans et CPC rectyfies).
Paragraphe 2: Page 36
C Ce projet de rapport pr*ctse que rEtat a contrlbu6 4 hauteur
de 1596 pour le financement du programme
d'investlssement de l'ODEP. L'ODEP a autoflnance 3496.
L'ODEP n'aJamais recu de subventlons de la part de VEtat et
assure le flnancement de ces investissements par La
mobllLsatlon de ses propres ressources et le recours aux
financements externes.
* I est precise *galement qua le domaLne d'lnterventlon de
l'Etat est limiW d La rehabilitatiOn des jetees et du dragage
des ports.
En effet, depuis 1995, IrODEP est charge du dragage des
ports qutl gebre directement.
LODEP assure egatement le dragage des ports geres par
l'Etat.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
Annex 2: Financial Analysis
Financial analysis of ODEP
Introduction
1.         The restructuring of port sector in Morocco has been going on since 1984. ODEP the new borne institution has performed
satisfactorily since its creation. The major reasons for this performance are highlighted in the following paragraphs they include: (i)
operating efficiency due to implementation of appropriate structure, organization, and techniques and acquisition of adequate equipment;
(ii) financial performance due to implementation of appropriate procedures and decentralization of managerial responsibilities; and (iii)
commitment of personnel.
2.         Development as well as implementation objectives of the project have been met. In 1997 the availability of handling
equipment reached in average 93%, 83%, and 83% for cranes, straddles and carriers forklifts respectively. Cargo handling productivity for
sugar bulk (3551/3500), timber (1373/2000), and bags (541/800) have been satisfactory even though below the target level. For the
container activities the target of 320 was not achieved, however, the performance for 1997 is considered satisfactory (274). During the
first semester of 1998 the container productivity reached 396. The traffic reached about 46 millions tons, a record never reached since
1984 representing 7.5% increase compared to 1996 and 1.3% compared to general trend of the last 5 years. The main reasons for these
increases are the commissioning of new facilities, the increase in containers, phosphate, hydrocarbon, phosphoric acid, and ore traffic, as
well as Ro-Ro traffic in Tangiers, and an increase in cereals imports.
Past and Present Financial Performance
3.             ODEP performed satisfactorily during the 1990-1997 period as shown in its consolidated financial statements in
tables 1 2 and 3. ODEP's working and operating ratios increased from 64% to 56% and from 90% to 76% respectively, and generated
an added value of about 67% in 1990 and 72% in 1997. Its net income steadily improved from DH 7 million in 1990 to DH 152
million in 1997. Similarly, its rate of return, based on historical value, on fixed assets in operation has been satisfactory at about 13%
in 1997. However, and despite ODEP's good performance as a result of essentially better control of its operating expenses mainly the
labor expenses (36% of added value down from 43% in 1990 and 1994). Improvement in efficiency and productivity should continue
through saving in expenses, total expenses over total revenues represent 28% in 1997 compared to 33% in 1990, and monitoring its
debt ratio which is currently close to 45% compared to 33% in 1990.
Table 1: ODEP Income Statements (in current DH million)
190      1991      1992       1993       1994       1995      1996        1997
Actual   actual    actual    Actual    Actual    actual    actual         Actual
Total Revenues          919.55   1016.38   1122.70    1171.73    1253.28    1571.37    1581.83     1651.44
Working expenses        582.62   648.04    681.13      754.82     779.93     827.53    883.37       919.47
Depreciation/Provision    244.67   277.96    291.35    284.77     295.22    305.88    317.82        332.58
Operating Income        92.26    90.39    150.22       132.13    178.13    437.96    380.64        399.40
Interests                31.69    44.67      77.42      43.70      80.50     109.99    109.43       107.47
Income before taxes      78.94     57.37     88.90      94.43      97.63     327.97    324.83       378.21
Net Income                7.23    26.81      41.77      30.85      30.58      58.93    122.25       152.93
Working ratio (%)         63%      64%        61%        64%        62%       53%        56%         56%
Operating ratio (%)        90%e0 9%           87%        89%        86%       72%        76%         76%/
Operating                 10%       9%       13%        11%        14%        28%       24%          24%
income/Revenues (%)                     .__ I                           I



4.            Operating revenues consist of port dues on goods and ships (about 78%) and of wharfage and use of infrastructure
(about 22%). The two components increased respectively from DH 618 million in 1990 to DH 1256 million in 1997 corresponding to
an average increase of about 13% per year, and from DH 264 million to DH 330 million or an increase of about 5% per year. During
the period under review the overall revenues increased by about 11% per year reflecting a combination of tariff adjustments (about
5%) and an increase in traffic (about 7.8%). Salaries and wages, and materials and external services for maintenance are ODEP's
major working expenses. They represent about 26% and 28% of total revenues respectively. They increased from DH 266 and 317
million in 1990 to DH 430 and 456 million in 1997 or 8% and 7% per year, about 4% less than the increases in revenues. Compared
to added value salaries are still high 36% reflecting a labor productivity improvement from 43% in 1994. This ratio could be
improved to a more acceptable rate of 25 to 30%.
Table 2: ODEP Balance Sheet (in current DH mnillion)
_______________  1 1990   1991      192    1 993        1994      1995       1996    1997
Atual   :actua      Atal    Actual:tuid  i    act  Actual    actual    actua
NetFixedAssets         1142.78   1205.41   1216.01   1356.36   1472.01   1454.30   2077.31   1824.53
OtherAssets             524.77    709.35    790.45   1155.85   1232.11   1322.741   797.97    747.72
CurrentAssets           329.87    357.71    416.12    376.80    429.99    512.45    777.60    644.10
Cash                     10.23       0.00      0.00     51.54     65.83    562.89    568.16   1065.14
Total Assets          2007.65   2272.7|   2422.57   2940.55   31994   3239   4221.04   4281.4
Equity                  986.13    962.75   1030.65   1253.09   1311.48   1615.32   1657.29   1890.26
Long Term Debt          439.44    701.61    800.38    896.09   1120.97   1349.25   1566.93   1520.84
Current Liabilities     582.08    560.91    577.06    791.37    767.49    730.57    825.53    847.89
Overdraft                 0.00     47.21      14.47      0.00      0.00    157.25    171.29      22.49
Total Equity & Liab.   2007.65   2272A7   2422.57   2940.55   3199.94   3852.39   4221.05   4281.A4
Current Ratio             0.58       0.59      0.70      0.54      0.65       1.21      1.35      1.96
Debt/Debt & Equity     303%    42.16%    43.71%    41.69%    46.08%    45.:1%I  4860%    44.59%
(%)                I          I            -- 
Rate of return on net 1   3.74%   6.9%h    9.84%       5.81/0%   7.85%    11.55%    13.12%    13.35%
Fix. Ass.
Table 3: ODEP Sources & Application of Funds for 1990-1995 (in current DH million)  actual
19       1991     192       1993      14       1995     196       I9       To
Cash Generation         219.46   280.20   342.38    294.30   354.74   430.92    532.03   548.90   2454.04
Working Capital(+/-)     15.38    49.02    42.25   -253.63    77.07   119.38   170.18  -155.86    219.66
DebtServices            114.721   83.01   112.42    332.89   181.661  207.37   260.89   357.54   1292.961
Net Cash Generation      89.36   148.17   187.71    215.04    96.02   104.17   100.96   347.22    94I142
Equity variation          3.46    28.41    -4.38    154.86    -8.05    79.59   -80.29    80.04    173.61
Borrowing               126.78   221.88   164.28    421.65   361.89   491.00   326.09   470.65   2113.57
Available Funds         219.60   398.47   347.61    791.55   449.86   674.76   346.76   897.91   3228.60
Capita Expenditures     287.45   455.93   314.88    725.51   435.58   334.92   355.55   252.13   2909.82
Cash Increase (decrease)   -67.85   -57:46    32.73   66.04    14.28   339.84    -8.79   645.78    318.78
Cash beginning of year   78.08    10.23   -47.23    -14.50    51.54    65.82   405.65   396.87
Cash en of year          10.23   -47.23   -14.50      51.54    65.82   405.65   396.87  1042.65
Debt service Ratio        1.78   2.78        2.67      1.65      1.53     1.50  139          1.97      1.73
Self financing            31%      32%      60-%       30%      22%      31%       28%     138%       32%



5.        Despite, the slight decrease in financial performance by the end of the period (1993 and 1994), the financial ratios indicate
that ODEP performed well and improved its overall efficiency thereafter. ODEP has met its obligations under Loan Agreement 3284-
MOR. Rates of return on fixed assets in operation (at their historical values) reached 13% in 1997. ODEP's debt service coverage ratio is
about 1.7 in average, above the 1.4 target set under the ongoing project. The debt to debt plus equity ratio is rather high (about 45%) and
is closely monitored. ODEP has a healthy cash situation which is used to anticipate reimbursement of some loans. Management is
carefully planning investments and related fnancing in order to remain creditworthy. The total sub-sector investment for the period 1990-
1997 amounts to DH 3,110.00 million of which DH 2,910.00 million are implemented under the responsibility of ODEP and DH 200
million represent the Government involvement in the sub-sector.
7.        The financing plan of ODEP's total investments includes the ongoing Bank's loans and supplier credits which together provide
financing for about DH 2.114 million or 62% of its investment program. The Government did contribute in the financing up to 15% and
the self financing was about 34%. During the last few years the Government has been reducing budgetary contributions to the sub-sector
and is moving towards less direct involvement in infrastructure and superstructure investments. Its main interventions are limited to
breakwaters rehabilitation and dredging.
8.             The new trend in port sub-sector development and management shows that the Government is reorienting some
segment of the commercial activities, i.e. management of terminals and some of the handling activities, to the private sector, and
transferring gradually its responsibilities over investment in infrastructure to ODEP and other potential private operators. This
includes planning and investment in infrastructure and dredging in all Moroccan ports (commercial, fishing ports and some secondary
local ports). Currently Jorf-Lasfar coal terninal has been sold to ONE the power utility which has concluded a concession contract for
the terminal with private producer of energy. Moroccan are currently considering construction of new port in Tangiers under BOT
arrangement with private operators which would sign with ODEP a concession contract for managing the existing facilities in
Tangiers.
9.        ODEP has progressively took over almost all the management and overall responsibilities for port infrastructure, and
development of fishing and leisure ports. Accordingly, ODEP has been financing new investments and rehabilitating existing public
infrastructure. As consequence, domain fees paid by ODEP to the Government in compensation of the use of public property remained
stable not exceeding DH 55 million per year. This progressive change in responsibilities in port infrastructure management will, in one
hand, lead to better identification of the true cost of operating port infrastructure, and consequently, the application of appropriate charges
for services delivered to port users, in the other hand, lead to a de facto monopoly and derive ODEP from its responsibility of developing
and handling commercial activities in ports.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
ANNEX 3: TECHNICAL INDICATORS



Table 1: PORT OF CASABLANCA
Traffic comparison SAR - Traffic forecast
Actual
SAR
traffic   Actual      with project     growth rate / y     without project    growth rate I y
x 000 t    1987      1994     2000   87 - 2000 94 - 2000   1994      2000  87 - 2000 94 - 2000
Containers       695      1,039     1,443   5.78%    5.63%       849        966  2.57%   2.18%
RoRo             312       404       481   3.39%    2.95%        381         434  2.57%   2.19%
General Cargo    1,543    1,710     1,961   1.86%    2.31%     1.923       2,485  3.73%   4.37%
total           2,550     3,153   3,885    3.29%    3.54%      3,153       3,885  3.29%   3.54%
growFth rate / y          3.08%    3.29%                       3.08%       329%
Actual
traffic       Actual  Effective  growth rate / y
x 000 t    1987      1997     87 - 97
Containers       695      2,030   11.31%
RoRo             312       860   10.67%
General Cargo    1,543    1,800    1.55%
total          2,550      4,690    6.28%



Table 2: Casablanca: unitized traffic
containers (tons)                containers (rEUs)          tons
year      in         out        total       in          out       total          year       RoRo       Cont        Total
1980      359,661    261,210     620,871     28,610      28,102     56,712       1993        743,872   1,528,829   2,272,701
I981      362,293    253,623     615,916     26,044     27,630      53,674       1994        806,227   1,643,481   2,449,708
1982      435,188    269,174     704,362     30,225      30,139     60,364       1995        769,858   1,855,370   2,625,228
1983      409,075    273,993     683,068     27,792      27,871     55,663       1996        749,959   1,856,568   2,606,527
1984      413,245     283,056    696,301     28,541      28,820     57,361       1997        864,792   2,031,639   2,896,431
1985      468,559    334,956     803,515     33,026      32,884     65,910
1986      516,184    356,592     872,776     35,769      36,155     71,924
1987      582,442    348,080     930,522     39,414      40,252     79,666
1988      653,033    430,906   1,083,939     42,954      44,915     87,869
1989      754,348    476,164   1,230,512     48,878      48,735     97,613
1990      899,928    502,627   1,402,555     56,309      56,631    112,940            TIR traffic (trailers)
1991      946,343    522,721   1,469,064     58,845      58,464    117,309 
1992      986,162    478,400   1,464,562     58,784      58,370    117,154       year       tons        no.
1993     1,062,666    466,163   1,528,829    60,751      60,510    121,261          1993    460,298      20,403
1994     1,142,528    500,953   1,643,481    67,173      68,184    135,357          1994    498,891      22,188
1995     1,285,407    569,963   1,855,370    74,783      73,553    148,336          1995    465,525      21,688
1996     1,278,129    578,439   1,856,568    75,600      75,474    151,074          1996    437,487      20,893
1997     1,381,173    650,466   2,031,639    78,980      79,432    158,412          1997    477,396      22,308



Table 3: Port of Tangiers
traffic
1988        1989         1990         1991         1992         1993         1994         1995         1996         1997
grainis (tons)             176,061      160,467      153,125      165,977      243,236     235,865       49,225      209,883       163,727      116,209
hydrocarbons (tons)         90,386      129,387      111,288       99,719      143,700      185,091      196,307      143,927       52,038      60,183
TIR (number)                15,318       20,292       23,804       29,757       33,308      39,469       44,843       41,459       50,186       58,558
TIR (tons)                 370,336      507,863      585,758      687,153      766,508     912,841     1,045,824    1,002,867    1,152,492    1,351,978
Containers(TEUs)             4,701        5,945        8,433       11,140       11,231       9,079        8,875        11,744       10,945       11,826
Contairers (tons)           41,282       52,176       67,30 L      93,233      99,673       79,270        79,003      108,657       97,294      l 111,022
total gen. cargo (tons)    674,941      819,159      922,277    1,302,987    1,584,592    1,693,859    1,702,361    1,716,848    1,850,228    2,014,415
passengers (number)       1,034,486    1,134,338   1,179,500    1,079,042    1,382,643    1,498,174    1,614,052    1,421,206    1,451,447    1,538,509
TIR: empties included (15 to 25 %) / tare included (- 55 %)
Containers: empties included (32 to 41 %) / tare inicluded (22 to 24 %)          .        .    .      ,-.                  ..
250,000    ,'s
50,000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~49,9
;M                  '      M    -09'                                                    WE'  uovzzisSE'  
-988  1989  3990,  8991   1998  1993:  1994  1995  19    1997    .                 1998 8999S 1990 8991 1992 199  399X4 195196M 1997
400,000.-iS    400                                                     tW
1988   19g  1990  8991  899.2 :9,I    19.9   899   199%   1997                  TM8  8989 8990  199j -tM9  8999 -14 0$    9%  297
)          _ _    _      _ _ _   _ _ _               V_                                     _    _   _ i_''' _ __           _ _ _  _ __j_   _ __!': 5    -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3283/83-MOR)
ANNEX 4: MAPS



MOROCCO
Strait of Gibraltar|    PORT SECTOR PROJECT
TANGIER PORT LAYOUT
Project Extension
(RO-RO  Facilities)
. / -   Roads
-            Railroads
* U  Port Buildings
------*  Port Boundary
o                                 0.5
KILOMETERS                          k
TIN. op h-bee pp.oprd by Th. Wodd Boo'. ft.  wdoh,sIny frIA 
~  #  read-n m.d is eowiel A. I intm.o we . T6Whe
a"h ,gk ..otionol F.-nn Co.proio. The ds-nofnisowedns
shob- w n on  this wo do no iopI, on use pod d The        a
I. n-1msl F,n  Cosposwio, ,                on I         .,
Jy owtoy -   .y .dor-.,     -  CcopkX   o!ss.dO



MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
JORF LASFAR PORT LAYOUT                                                                                                                                                               NTH
Proposed Coal Berth
El |     Port Buildings                                                                                             9
-Roads
4,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4+
Te mop has been prepared by
0                     ~~~~~~0.5                                                                                                                                   The Ktb* Saerws ststal xkne"'
___________________________                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~for fth cwwienwle of the
MILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                    read.rs and is exchwh'. for the
kte-nat iso Of The wib-I Baar
NW NWe tntemnabonal Fkianc
Corporation. The dwn*,tioms
used and the bowfida,le atW.
On lf- me do not wr* on fte
CI,                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pat of The IM,rtd Bank and the
SOUTt  a tiona/ Finnce Corporatbon,
ENTRANCE                    /nY judgment on t  legal stau s
of any tertory or anry 
endorsement or acceptance of
such bourxanes.                       N)
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ao



MOROCCO
PORT SECTOR PROJECT
CASABLANCA PORT LAYOUT
Project Extension
Proposed Rood Access
Isoo"  Future Bridge at Gate No. 4Ag
Built-up Areas
Customs Fence
i Roilroods
Port Buildings               
0                            0.5                                                                                                     00
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                  $
Royal Noy                         Harbor \
iS i, ~~~~~Office\
Equipm   ei-NO RAMP
.rds
*Ycs  *~~~~~~~                            Sid,~~~~ 8eyaut    a
Pi -  _.." n.' W5VT..u..~-         
-<                                                                                                                        P5cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tI. Oip 'i  'Ot*. e- d  -t  1fSfO asiai  - 
0    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-0 isM   a sta ftavvays..   a',b   Otbaa* 
c                                                                                                                                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



12'                                                           B'                                                          4
Mediterranean Sea
M  O  R O  C C O                                                                                                                 J{)/d 0lHcem
Ksarachebi                                                        firnT Tle\ "I
PORT SECTOR PROJECT                                                                             Ksa eleiane                                                       0ar e
MOROCCO PORT SYSTEM                                                              me hB Iunat
Moha Lmefir JaNTRa
Ce S f                                setmCETuzerRKandar                       ORIENTAL
32'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
readers and is                                                  SOUTuHivete forTH the                                                     -
intern*(3'Azilal use of TfWorl
and ThENS in t \ ODernati .E- Gonlmjmav frr;hiniance . . . . . . . .   /   _
EssaouiraN       ;)$
|         ~~~Tinghi,           ,/                    /         s
Tmin TanoutO             - denmiatina -                                                            0    PORT SUBPROJECT LOCATIONS
sed and the boun s hndes Mgouna                                                                                  PORTS
l                                 O~~~~~~~~~      ~~uarzazate  0                              <     AIRPORTS
onrthis map h fi been5tprheSp red              Ag                                            Taznakht , o thSECONDARY ROADS
prtoThe World Ban/r an te                                                                                                                                    srcu/ N aTIONAL CAITAL
for lhe roneni-c   o the                 -BI ama                                            I                          IITL..- Zagora                               '--LOCAL ROADS
reder *n-see/sr do th                                 I                                  LI T1  H                
/nfm/ueo Th. HerAd nr                            /                 L,k                                                                                        RAILROADS
nd therntional-    nance  i..                                             '                            .
use -n te bunwr/s ho_                                                               -                                                                         PROVINCE CAPITALS
on~~ ~ ~~   th.>                                TiznP,rOrnt 'm00n ,et                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
anyfindfsonvent>nonte legal Strpso/ szatus                                   K' Tiznit  STata  /  _  _    t     APproxIl                                      0    TOWNS AND CITIES
nseh bmenodaepnc o                                                                        I_                                                                        ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES
)  :  t  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
- - _ _tINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
Guelmim  /          0       50     100    150                                          (approximate)
KILOMETERS                                       'NOTE: Some ports (existing) fall
- 28                                                                                                                                                          outside the map image area.
$                    / ~Tan-Tan                                   I
Tafaya                                                                                                                                                                                          28
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                            5



