Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11964-AM
STAFF APP2AISAL REPORT
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
JANUARY 5, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         11964 AM
Type: OAR
Infrastructure Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Ruble (R)/Dram
EXCHANGE RATES: RUBLES/DRAMS PER $
(End of Period)
Ruble: Dec   1991             169.2
Jun    1992            144.0
Dec   1992             400.0
Jun    1993           1000.0
Dram: Nov 22 1993              14.0 (introduction)
Dec 18 1993             80.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EBRD   =        European  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and
Development
EC      =       European Commission
EQZ    =        Earthquake Zone
EU      =       European Union
FSU     =       Former Soviet Union
GOA    =        Government of Armenia
ICB     =       International Competitive Bidding
IDA     =       International Development Association
IFC     =       International Finance Corporation
LCB             Local Competitive Bidding
MOE    =        Minizry of Economy
MOF    =        Ministry of Finance
PPU             Project Preparation Unit
PIU     =       Project Implementation Unit
UN              United Nations
UNDP  =         United Nations Development Program
USAID  =        United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFMICL1 USE ONLY
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSURUCTION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Armenia
Executing Agencies:        Ministry of Economy
Beneficiaries:             Approximately 2,000 households will receive shelter and 2,500 workers
will be employed in reconstructed factory shells. Approximately 500,000
residents of temporary housing areas will benefit from sanitary facilities
(e.g., community bathhouses).
Credit Amount:             SDR 20.1 million. (US$28.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                     35 years, 10 year grace period.
Project Objectives:        The primary objectives are: a) to provide improved housing and living
conditions to residents of the earthquake zone; b) to reconstruct basic
infrastructure which will support employment creation; and c) to develop
a longer term sustainable program for rehabilitation in the earthquake
wone.
Project Description:       The project will complete the reconstruction of housing, factory shells
and municipal infrastructure that could provide immediate assistance and
employment to the needy population in the earihquake zone. It will also
support some key reforms in housing policy (e.g., privatization, cost
recovery, single family self-help housing, etc.) and help develop the
overall housing reform agenda for Armenia. Additionally, it will prepare
a long-term regional development strategy to rehabilitate the earthquake
zone and will provide equipment to the Ear uake Engineering Institute.
Benefits and Risks:        Project Benefits. Benefits of the project include a major impact on
poverty alleviation in the EQZ through employment creation and
subsidized improved housing and other welfare infrastructure. It will also
include policy development in the housing sector and promote the
institutional development of a private construction industry through
training, competitive procurement and improved construction
supervision. The factory shells component was subject to a rigorous
economic analysis. Selected factories show a weighted average rate of
return on incremental project investments of 50% and an aggregate
creation of 2,500 permanent jobs. Selected factories would also increase
exports. A rate of return for housing is impossibl. o calculate in the
absence of a housing market; however housing investments have been
selected based on their efficiency lowest cost solution) and their
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not other-ise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
contribution to sector goals (e.g. privatization, cost recovery, promotion
of individual initiative in housing provision).
Project Risks. This is the first time that the Bank has financed physical
works in Armenia, and neither Bank staff, nor Government officials and
Armenian professionals can fully anticipate problems that might occur.
This difficulty has been mitigated by allowing for a review during
implementation of Phase I of the project, by keeping the project small
in scale and scope, and by including larger contingencies than usual. In
addition, there is a blockade affecting the main supply routes into
Armenia, and civil strife in Georgia can interfere with shipments. This
has been mitigated by carefully reviewing transportation constraints
during preparation and maximizing the use of private sector importers
and suppliers, who have a better record of overcoming these problems.
In other Bank operations in the FSU, it has been found that kcal
unfamiliarity with Bank procurement regulations can slow
implementation. The training of PIU staff, government officials and local
contractors in Bank procurement procedures which has already been
initiated during project preparation should reduce delays. Furthermore,
a major portion of the Technical Assistance and Training program has
been dedicated to this potential problem. There is a risk that changes in
the project implementation staff (see Paragraph 3.3) will delay
implementation of the project, although the commitment to the project
the GOA has displayed suggests that all efforts will be made to reduce
this risk. Finally, there is a risk that occupants might be unwilling or
unable to pay for the maintenance of the units, making the housing
component less sustainable than desired. However reduced design
standards and costs will make the project more cost effective than its
original design, and payments from beneficiaries under the project will
bt larger than they will have been without the policy changes that are
being attempted.



-iii-
.,'Oj*                   Loca, _,US$ Millon                      J
Project                 Locl    Foreign      Total      Percent
Land sites and infrastructures            1.7                  1.7            4
j    .   -                                            .                11-  
Construction: Sunk Costs
Housing                                  5.9                  5.9           13
Factory Shells                           9.7          -       9.7          21
Construction: Incremental Costs           5.7       13.2      18.9           41
Technical Assistance                      0.2        2.1       2.3            5
Design, supervision, administration       0.1        0.5       0.6            1
Base Costs                               23.3       15.8      39.1           85
Physical contingencies'                   1.0        2.2       3.2            7
Price contingencies (15%)                 1.0        2.7       3.7            8
Total contingencies                       2.0        4.9       6.9           15
Total Costs                              25.3       20.7      46.0
-   --                                  -
Project Financing-
State Authorities Oand, infrastructure,
sunk costs)                              17.3               _ 17.3   __  _
(5% of incremental local costs)           0.3          -       0.3
IDA (mcremental costs)                    7.7       20.3      28.0              l
Donor assistance                            -        0.4       0.4
Sub-total (excluding sunk costs)          8.7       20.7      28.7
Total                                    25.3       20.7      46.0
1 Physical contingencies are 10% on technical assistance and 15% on all other activities.



-iv-
IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(net of taxes and duties)
US$ million
IDA Fiscal Year                                  Tal
Annual                      Cumulative
1994                                      7.1                           7.1
1995                                      11.5                          18.6
1996                                      9.4                           28.0
Economic Rate
of Retur:         Not applicable for housing, municipal and TA components; estimated at an
average of 50% for factory shell completion.
Poverty Category:   Program of Targeted Interventions
Map:               IBRD Ne 23943R



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARMENIA
EARTIfQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIf ANr PROJECT SIJMMARY  .......................... * ...                    i-iv
I.BACKGRUNDu        .............                                                 1
II. TM PROJECr .                                                                   3
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement..                                            3
B. Project Objectives..                                                       3
C. Project Area..                                                             3
D. Project Summary                           ..3
E. Detailed Project Description..                                             4
Housing Component .......                                               4
Apartment Completion Sub-component .......................   S
Unit Allocation  .....................................    6
Cost Recovery ......................................   6
Strengthening Sub-component ............................   7
Single Family Housing Sub-component .......................   7
Munc..pal Services.                                                     8
Public Bathhouses Sub-componen.                                     8
Water and Sewer Sub-component.                                      8
Community acilities.                                                9
Factory Shells Component.                                               9
Technical Assistance, Training, and Equipment .10
Procurement and Construction Management .10
Housing Reform .10
Regional Development and Reconstruction of the Earthquake Zone     10
Support to the Earthquake Engineering Center .10
Evaluation of Phase I of Project Implementation and Preparation of
Pe.se.                                                         10
F. Project Costs and Financing       ..11
G. Project Benefits and Risks       ..13
H. Ecoromic Evaluation           ..13
I. Environmental Considerations .13
m. PROJECr MLEMiENTATION .15
A. Organization Responsibilities .15
Central Government.                                                   15
Project Implementation Unit.                                          15
Local Construction Firms.                                             15
Local Governments .....................................   16



B. Project Phasing                    ............  16
C. Procurement                       ............  19
Civil Works .....                 .......  20
Goods ............                                                    20
Consutants .....  .... 20
D. Disbursements            .........................  21
E. Accounts and Audits ......... ......                                      21
F. Project Monitoring and Supervision ............ ..     ................   22
Reporting Procedures .................         ...................   22
Implementation Performance Monitering Indicators ........  ..........  22
Supervision schedule   ..................       ...................  22
IV. AGREEhsiNTS, CO. IDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                 .........  23
ANNEXES
Annex 1.1    Legislative Achievements and Outstanding Issues
Annex 1.2    Housing Policy Reform Statement of Intent
Amnex 1.3    Housing Policy Reform: Program for External Assistance
Annex 2      Cost Recovery
Annex 3      Economic Justification
Annex 4      Issues in Contracting and Procurement
Annex S      Regional Economic Study of the Earthquake Zone and Long-Term
Infrastructure Investment Strategy
Annex 6      Action Plan by Phase of Project and Subcomponents
Annex 7      Implementation Plan
Annex 8      Contents of Implementation Volume
Annex 9      Organizational Structure of Project Implementation Unit
Annex 10     Disbursement Schedule
Annex 11     Procurement Schedule
Annex 12    Implementation Responsibilities
TABLES
2.1          Project Costs
2.2          Project Fmancing
3.1          Expenditures by Phase of Project and Subcomponent
3.2          Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
MAP           IBRD 23943R
Arww     2*90'~~~A ~ainwdw(I~wu
Ipechisp, Con,  :X 1)- ':y      '        .'1wpmrrnhwmrawetaAA1ar ~.... "
~~ Son,ardl~~~~.C. 0*4 anvd C.  M'_           (An. f.



-1-
ARMENL1
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.1          In the last five years, Armenia has suffered a series of devastating shocks-the earthquake
of 1988, the dissolution oV the Sovie- Union block and the current regional unrest. The earthquake of
December 1988 caused extensive dam4ge to housing, factories, community facilities and infrastructurc
in about one third of the country. Twenty-five to thfity thousand people died in the earthquake,
approximately 530,000 persons were left homeless, and 40 % of the country's manufacturing capacity
was destroyed.
1.2          Efforts to recover from the earthquake's devastation have been thwarted by the upheaval
following the breakup of the Soviet Union. International rescue efforts in December 1988 and early 1989
were followed rapidly by reconstruction projects led by a committee under the Supreme Soviet of the
USSR. Work continued until mid-1991, when the Soviet work crews were withdrawn to their newly
independent home countries, leaving vast areas of partially completed apartment blocks, factories, and
infrastructure projects. Subsequent relief measures have focused on assistance to refugees from
Azerbaijan, often ignoring victims of the earthquake in the same communiti.s.
1.3          As a consequence, the Earthquake Zone (EQZ) continues to have severe shortages of
shelter, basic infastructure and industrial facilities. Unemployment in the EQZ remains as high as 75%;
tens of thousands of families continue to live in "container communities" comprised of adapted railroad
boxcars, steel shipping containers and large fuel tanks supplied by the Soviet Union immediately after
the earthquake; and one of the affected cities (Spitak) has virtually no piped water. These problems are
compounded by the transport blockade imposed by the conflict with Azerbaijan which has disrupted the
trade flows from Georgia and other neighboring countries and reduced energy supplies. Temporary
houses are unheated and uninsulated, and temperatures inside them fall weil below zero during the winter.
The temporary housing installed after the earthquake has some access to sanitary services, but there is
a high risk of environmental and health problems. Finally, the long delay in finishing the reconstruction
effort, combined w.t the high rate of unemployment, is weakening public confidence, and the crime rate
is beginning to rise in some EQZ communities. Thus, despite the passage of 5 years since the earthquake,
the population of the EQZ continues to require urgent assistance.
1.4          In spite of the difficult conditions, the Government of Armenia (GOA) has demonstrated
a remarkable commitment to undertake the economic reforms necessary to restructure its economy. With
respect to housing, privatization legislation has passed the first stage of review in Parliament and other
housing policy reforms are being designed (see Annex l.b for Housing Policy Reform Statement of
Intent). A policy to privatize industrial enterprises has strong support; the details of its implementation
are being formulated with assistance of the rec,.ntly approved Institution Building Project (Loan 3585-
AM). The immediate task for the government is to weather the current crises and re-build its
infrastructure in a manner consistent with long-term reform goals.



-2-
1.5          lhis project seeks to alleviate the current crisis in the Earthquake zone and is being
processed to start implementation during the next construction season. A Japanese grant of US$1.0
million has helped the Government prepare the project. Basic design, engineering work, cost estimates
and a sociological srvey to identify the living conditions, income and priority needs of the target
population have been completed. A project unit has been created and is ready to manage implementation.
The GOA has displayed a strong commitment to the project and has acted rapidly to provide facilities
(such as offices, staff and equipment) necessary for the preparation of tei project. The project will not
solve all the problems of the EQZ; the actual volume of reconstruction necessary is well beyond the scope
of a single operation. However, it will provide an opportunity for the Government to reaffirm its
commitment to the reconstruction effort and provide for a coherent plan for continuing the process.



-3-
HI. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for IDA Lnvolvement
2.1          Despite the passage of 5 years since the earthquake, a crisis continues to exist in the
earthquake zone. At present no international or bilateral assistance programs in Armenia focus on capital
investments in housing or employment, either for eat ',quake relief or to stimulate a faltering national
economy. The current economic situation makes it difficult for the Government tc continue reconstruction
without international financing. Financing a reconstruction program will alleviate pressirg economic and
social problems and provide a unique opportunity to support implementation of basic economic reforms
in housing and infrastructure.
B. P-oject Objectives
2.2          The primary objectives are: a) to provide improved housing and living conditions to
residents of the Earthquake Zone; b) to reconstruct basic infrastructure which will support employment
creation: and c) to develop a longer term sustainable program for rehabilitation in the earthquake zone.
C. Project Area
2.3          The Earthquake Zone, located in the northwest corner of Armenia contains about one
third of the country's area (approximately 10,000 sq. km.). The haf million people left homeless after
the quake constituted one-sixth of Armenia's total popuiaiion. The project will emphasize the three largest
cities in the EQZ: Gumri (populationt 270,000), which is the second largest city in Armenia, Vanadzor
(population 180,000), the third largest city, and the smaller city of Spitak (population 20,000). Gumri
and Vanadzor sustained serious damage during the 1988 quaks; Spitak, which was at the epicenter of the
quake, was totally destroyed. The EQZ was a major industrial area before 1988. Vanadzor alone had
some 33 state owned enterprises and an additional 1,900 private business. Spitak had 33 state companies
and 260 private businesses. In addition to being a major industrial area, the region has special historical
and cultural significance. Gumri is the home of a number of national historical and architectural
monuments; it is also a major transport nexus for rail lines from Georgia and Turkey.
D. Project Summary
2.4            The project will complete the reconstruction of housing, factory shells and municipal
infrastructure that could provide immediate assistance and employment to the needy population in the
earthquake zone. It will also support some key reforms in housing policy (e.g., privatization, cost
recovery, single family self-help housing, etc.) and help develop the overall housi"g reform agenda for
Armenia. Additionally, it will prepare a long-term regional development strategy to rehabilitate the
earthquake zone and will provide equipment to the Earthquake Engineering Center.
2.5           The project was prepared under Japanese Grant funding. The project will be divided
into two phases. The first phase construction was initiated during 1993 and is eligible for retroactive
financing; construction will continue through the 1994 construction season. The second phase will begin
during the 1994 construction season and will be completed in 1995. All feasibility studies, the detailed
engineering, and cost estimates for Phase I have been completed by the Project Preparation Unit and
appraised by the Association. The procurement process has been proceeding since negotiations in July



-4-
1993, and the first contracts were awarded in October, 1993. Delays In starting construction have been
due to the government's lack of funds in spite of being eligible for retroactive financing under the credit.
Final engineering and appraisal for Phase 11 will be carried out during the course of Phase 1. Details on
the breakdown by project phase are givel' in paras. 3.7-3.9.
2.6            The project will include four components, as listed below:
Housing:
(i)    Completion of presently unfinished apartments;
(ii)   Repair and strengthening of damaged apartnent buildings; and,
(iii)   Land development and construction of serviced plots and starter houses for single
family ownership and self-help expansion.
Municipal Services:
(i)    Provision of bathhouses for temporary housing areas, some of which will incorporate
solat heating;
-ii)   Completion of selected water supply and sewerage sub projects in Spitak, Vanadzor,
and Stepanovan; and
(iii)   Community facilities.
U;,;Tnished Factory Shells:
(i)    Completion of factory shells for existing profitable industries.
Technical Assistance, Training, Equipment and Studies for:
(i)    Procurement and construction supervision
(ii)   Housing reform;
(iii)   Regional development of the Earthquake Zone; and
(iv)   The Earthquake Engineering Center.
E. Detailed Project Description
Housing Component
2.7            Housing will be provided through several subcomponents: finishing the construction of
apartment buildings begun by the Soviet Union; strengthening and repair of condemned apartment
buildmgs rendered uninhabitable by the earthquake; and developing single family housing suitable for
progressive construction. Most of the housing construction in Phase I will be the completion of nearly
constructed apartments since these can be finished at low cost and in a short time period. In Phase II,
fewer nearly finished units will be available for completion; and construction will emphasize the other
methods subject to endorsement in the course of the mid-term review of the project.
2.8           While the project is primarily designed to alleviate severe housing and employment
conditions within the earthquake zone, it will be implemented at a crucial moment in the development



-5-
of Armenia's housing policy.3 The Armenian Parliament has recently passed a law for mass privatization
of housing which grants ownership of units to their occupants throughout the country at a nominal fee.
In the future, the Government will not be responsible for s& -ter provision with the one exception of the
Earthquake Zone where it has a strong legal and moral obligation to continue doing so. However, to set
the precedent for the market-oriented housing system, individuals receiving housing in the EQZ will be
required to cover at least part of the construction costs. Home owners will be in any case responsible for
maintenance costs. Assistance will be provided simultaneously to the GOA to develop an action plan for
(a) the legal, regulatory and institutional reforms expressed in its Housing Policy Statement of Intent; and
(b) policies on sustainable targeted subsidies on a nation-wide basis.(see Annex 1.2). The Regional Study
of the Earthquake Zone (see Annex 5) will coordinate the continuing effort to reconstruct the region with
the development of reform policies. At negotiations it was agreed that the borrower will submit at tfhe
time of mid-term review an action plan on housing policy reform as described in Annex 1.2 (para. 4.1,
a).
2.9            Apartiaent Completion Subcomponent. Approximately 7,000 apartment units were
originally identified as candidates for completion. From these 800 units were selected for Phase 1. The
initial selection process has identified up to 700 additional units which appear suitable for completion in
Phase II. The criteria for selection was:
(i)   A high level of existing completion (60-90%);
(ii) Location in a viable neighborhood with existing infrastructure, transport and community
facilities; and
(iii) A high level of earthquake resistance in both the design standards and in the completed
portion of the structure.
Under the Reconstruction Study described in Annex 5, the remaining structures will be evaluated and a
program for deciding their fate will be designed (i.e., whether to complete, sell-off, or demolish them).
2.10        'he selection of units for completion was conducted by international and Armenian Seismic
engineers in cooperation with local authorities. The post earthquake norms of 14.5 square meters per
person were used in the basic designs. However, as a part of project preparation, the units were
significantly redesigned with cheaper standards (e.g. linoleum in place of parquet, unpainted interior
walls, showers in place of bathtubs, additional units on the ground floof and attics, subdivision of large
units, kerosene heaters in place of steam radiators)4 thereby more than doubling the number of units that
could be completed with the samne funds. Units will cost an average of US$2,200 (before contingencies)
to complete in Phase I; in Phase IJ the cost per unit will rise as starting points are at a lower level of
completion. The average per unit cost throughout the project is estimated at US$3,000 before
contingencies. The total base costs for the subcomponent are estimated at US$4.7 million.
3A description of the current status of Armenian housing policy, the Government's statement of intent
on future policy, and the project's strategy for aiding the development of housing policy are provided in
Annex 1.
'Unless the energy problem is solved before construction and district heat is again operational.



-0-
2.11        Units to be completed under the project will be used to demonstrate a series of key
initiatives consistent with the progress of general housing policy reforms such as a) private ownership,
b) private responsibility for maintenance, c) some cost recovery, d) the use of "sweat equity' in place
of cash contibutions and e) subsidy transparency and targeting.
2.12        Unit Allocation. Following the earthquake, allocation criteria were announced in Decree
# N371 of 1989 giving priority to those suffering injury or loss of family members. On this basis
apartments were allocated by the local authorities, even though the units were not completed. A survey
has been undertaken by the Project Preparation Unit of the families allocated to the units selected under
the project. This was done to confirm that families that were selected met the announced allocation
criteria. (Priority is given to invalids as a result of the earthquake, and to families who lost an income
provider and have an underage child or three or more children.) The survey showed that on average 2.5
persons will occupy each bedroom. In addition, it was found that nearly all families affected by the
earthquake are now experiencing severe financial difficulties (see Annex I of the Implementation volume).
2.13        The allocation process will be left intact, except for the units which are to be subdivided.
In Phase I less than 5% of the new units will be created in this manner. The existing beneficiary of a unit
being subdivided will be given an opportunity to occupy a newly-created apartment in an attic or ground
floor, one of the apartments created from the previously-allotted unit, or be reassigned to another
building. All beneficiaries will be offered the opportunity to purchase a starter home in the single family
housing areas as an alternative to their apartment. This will leave additional apartments to be allocated
according to the previously announced allocation criteria. At negotiations it was agreed that the allocation
criteria for apartments will not be changed without prior approval of the Assec.iation (para. 4.1, b)
2.14        All apartment units will be allocated as private owner-occupied units, with a condominium
arrangement for property maintenance for each building. It is anticipated that there will be little cash
outlay for maintenance since the buildings are constructed from extremely resilient materials and only the
most basic public services are currently being provided. In the short run, residents will be able to
maintain the buildings with their own labor, a practice which is common even in state-owned housing in
Armenia. USAID has agreed that the apartment buildings privatized through this project will be included
in their pilot program to organize condominium associations.
2.15        Cost Removery. Incremental costs of construction will be covered by an up-front subsidy
of 75% and a 25% contribution from recipients of apartment units. The up-front subsidy is consistent
with the provisions of the mass privatization law for housing (para. 2.8). Recipients' contributions will
be made over 25 years through monthly payments not exceeding one-fourth of the minimum wage. Loans
will be denominated in dollars and monthly payments indexed to the minimum salary.5 In a limited
number of cases of demonstrated need, beneficiaries may be allowed to use 'sweat equity' in lieu of cash
monthly payments for up to two years. Beneficiary households will be required to surrender their
temporary housing units ("domiks") but will not receive monetary compensation for them since such a
program would be administratively complex and beneficiaries will be receiving subsidies. At negotations,
the Government agreed to the terms and conditions of cost recovery for apartments and single family
homes completed wnder the project (para. 4.1, c).
51n the sociological survey it was found that average household incomes in the EQZ approximate one
minimum salary and average willingness to pay for housing falls close to 25% of this amount in current
rubles.



-7-
2.16        Strengthening Subcomponient. Approximately 25,000 apartment units had to be vacated
for repairs after the earthquake, with occupants moved to temporary housing areas but retaining their
right to the unit. However, the process of strengthening and repair was relatively complicated compared
to construction and proceeded slowly. Although little repair work has been done, the presence of
scaffolding around many buildings has allowed easy access and many structures have been stripped of
doors, windows and other fixtures.
2.17        Strengthening of such buildings has been studied by the Earthquake Engineering Center and
the National Design Institute and found to be feasible. After strengthening, the structures will meet a
new6 seismic engineering code which has been reviewed and found acceptable to the Association. Repair
of the buildings will also have the advantage of preserving existing neighborhoods. The cost of this
technique is estimated at approximately US$3,000 per apartment unit for strengthening and an equal
amount for repairs. Such work involves non-traditional technologies and a higher level of quality control.
The project will strengthen and repair about 500 units, mainly to test the technical feasibility of applying
the technique on a wider scale. The units will be allocated to their previous occupants under the same
terms provided by the mass privatization law for housing.
2.18        Single Family Housing Subcompo.tent. In Armenia, the tradition of individual home
ownership has survived throughout the Soviet years, especially in the rural areas. About 30% of the
housing units of Armenia remains in individual ownership, including 20% of urban dwelling units.
However, construction of individually owned single family housing has been discouraged in urban areas
through laws and regulations. For example, town planning and building codes are geared to large
apartment buildings only, current standards for plot and house size are excessive, and there are no
resources for private housing finance. Moreover the shortage of energy, materials and cash, suppresses
individual housing construction, making it accessible only to a small section of the population.
2.19        The Central Government and local governments in the EQZ want to revive single family
hoasing in Armenia, and they requested that a subcomponent be included to demonstrate that the
population can participate with its own resources and initiatives to the reconstruction of housing in the
EQZ, and to the further improvement of their housing conditions in both the EQZ and in the rest of
Armenia. This subcomponent will provide serviced plots and starter homes for self-help or self contracted
expansion. It will test appropriate and affordable designs, offer a wider range of housing types to the
public, and familiarize local people with the concept of a market-oriented urban housing supply. It will
also allow an opportnity to test the technic~al feasibility of transferring temporary housing units to
serviced plots.
2.20        The project will fiance the development of plots of up to 155 square meters serviced with
basic infrastructure (water, sewer, electricity and gas) at a cost of US$400 per plot. Expandable starter
homes of up to 30-50 square meters at an additional cost of up to US$2,400 will also be offered as an
option, bringing the total cost for a plot and starter home to approximately US$2,800. Design prototypes
will be constructed to show the final house after expansion. In the first phase of the project a small
number (15 each) of serviced plots, plots with core houses and final, expanded house prototypes will be
constructed in each city. In Phase II the program will be expanded to develop additional plots, plots with
foundations and plots with core houses in each city if warranted by the experience in Phase I. Total costs
for both phases are estimated at US$2.1 million.
6The new code was promulgated after the earthquake under the Soviet Union era.



-8-
2.21       Access to serviced lots or core houses will be offered as an alternative to those households
having rights to apartments to be completed under the project. Beyond this group, priority for
determining who can purchase a unit will be established under the same general criteria promulgated after
the earthquake (i.e., loss of home, family members, etc.). The houses and land will be privately owned
and land titles will be given as long-term transferrable occupancy rights until the policy for private
ownership of urban land is fully established.' At negotiations, it was agreed that the criteria for
allocation of single family hoa.sing would follow the current criteria and would not be changed without
the prior approval of the Association (para. 4.1, b).
2.22       On equity grounds, this component will receive an up front subsidy of only 25%. A
long-term policy on housing subsidies will be addressed as part of the housing policy TA component
(para. 6 of Annex 1.2) in the context of sustainable macroeconomic and fiscal policies. Recipients would
be required to contribute 75 % of the cost of infrastructure provision on the plot and housing construction
to phase in the concept of total private responsibility for housing costs. Land would be provided for a
nominal fee. As with the completed apartments, the balance to be recovered will be maintained in dollars
and the monthly payment indexed to the minimum wage. At negotiations, the GOA agreed to the terms
and conditions for cost recovery for single family housing (para 4.1, c).
Munidpal Services
2.23       Public Bathhouses Subcomponent. The component aims at improving sanitary conditions
and relieving hardships in the temporary ("domik") settlements in the Earthquake Zone by installing
public bathhouses offering hot water, showers, toilets and laundry facilities. It will also support a study
to evaluate how well the bathhouses constructed in Phase I fulfill community needs and what other
infrastructure and sanitary facilities might improve community welfare. The bathhouses will test solar
heating to supplement conventional heat in the winter and substitute for it in the summer. A study of solar
heating options shows that it shouid be feasible in the project area. The bathhouses will be operated under
concessionary contracts with users paying a fee towards operation and maintenance. As part of the
preparation of Phase I, an evaluation of community satisfaction with bathhouse design and community
demand for other facilities will be conducted. A small number of bathhouses will be constructed in Phase
I, including one testing solar power. Phase II will expand the program if warranted. The total cost is
estimated at US$1.1 million. At negotiations, it was agreed that the bathhouses would be operated
through concessionary contracts (para 4.1 d).
2.24        Water and Sewer Subcomponent. After the 1988 earthquake, construction was initiated
of several projects to restore or expand the water and sewer systems of the Earthquake Zone. Among
these projects, only the pipeline restoring water supply to the city of Spitak was judged to be acceptable
for financing under Phase I of this project because of the severe shortage of water in that city. Operation
of the pipeline would be administered by the local water company. Detailed engineering studies produced
a cost estimate of US$500,000. The feasibility studies for other proposed projects are being carried out
under a grant from the Japanese government; these projects may be included in Phase H. The GOA has
also agreed that financial and operating plans would be developed for the Armenian water and sewer
companies. Water and sewer fees will follow the Government's general program of gradual elimination
7Current Armenian legislation does allow for allocation of land to individuals for housing
construction. A policy for more wide spread privatization and private ownership or urban land will be
covered under the Technical Assistance dedicated to housing policy reform.



of subsidies.
2.25        Community Facilities. The project will allocate US$600,000 as matching contributions for
community facilites to meet social and environmental needs. An amount of US$200,000 would be
allocated for each city. The GOA, through the PIU (see para. 3.2) will evaluate proposals submitted by
the municipalities and supervise the use of the funds. Activities or projects of greater than US$50,000
would be submitted for approval by the Association during supervision.
Factory Shells Component
2.26        The project will complete reconstruction of a number of factory shells that have been
partially rebuilt by the Soviet Union. This component has been designated as having the highest priority
by the Government of Armenia. After a survey of numerous industrial public enterprises in the EQZ, and
intensive on-site reviews and interviews, four enterprises were selected as having met the following
criteria:
- economic viability
- strong management;
- rapid implementability of reconstruction of the shell (see Annex 3 for economic justification);
- substantial impact on employment and exports;
- ability to recover and repay costs of incremental construction.
2.27        The four enterprises selected for inclusion in Phase I are the Gumri Armelectrocondenser
Plant; Spitak Clothing Plant; Vanadzor Precision Machine Tool Company; and Vanadzor Fur Factory.
After the earthquake, despite immense damage, the management of several of these enterprises was
resilient enough to resume limited operations within 60-90 days in temporary facilities. The total amount
of the industrial component of the loan for Phase I is $5.0 million. The screening process of the
remaining factories for possible inclusion in Phase II began in November 1993, and a detailed analysis
will be available for the mid-term review.
2.28        Enterprises will repay the incremental construction costs. The loans will be denominated
in dollars, will carry a fifteen year maturity including a three year grace period, and a variable interest
rate equal to 0.5% over the World Bank lending rate. The factory shells will be property of the
enterprises (and will be valued along with the land on their balance sheets) although the government will
have the right under the current legal statutes to gain control of the facility in the event of non-payment.
At negotiatons, the GOA agreed to the terms and conditions for cost recovery offactory shells (para.
4.1e).
2.29        Another objective-which was set at the explicit request of the Government of Armenia-is
to use the program to further economic reform. To achieve this objective, enterprises with completed
facilities will be encouraged to make available production space, and where possible equipment, for the
use of "small enterprises." These could then be used by privately-owned small or new businesses.
Enterprises will also be required to participate in the privatization plan of the Ministry to which they were
subordinate. Assurance was offered at negotiations that the enterprises benefitingfrom completedfactory
shells will have priority access to electricity (para. 4.1, f).



-10-
Technical Assistance, Training, and Equipment
2.30        Technical assistance, training, and equipment purchases will be provided for: (i)
Procurement and construction management; (ii) Housing Reform, (iii) Regional Development and
Reconstuction of the Earthquake Zone and (iv) the Earthquake Engineering Center. The total cost of this
component is estimated at US$2.3 million.
2.31       Procurenent and Construction Management. International consultants will be provided
for managing the procurement and construction process. They will also provide significant training and
technical assistance in the areas of a) procurement, b) contract supervision, and c) contract management.
This assistance will be provided to GOA officials, the project implementation unit staff and to the
Armenian construction industry. The cost of these international conculting services is estimated at US$1.2
million. Faculty at the American University of Armenia will assist in developing a training program for
contractors interested in bidding on contracts.
2.32        Housing Reform. The GOA has demonstrated its willingness to reform its housing sector
policies in the attached Statement of Intent (Annex 1.2). However, no formal sequence of steps has been
devised to implement this new policy. Technical assistance and training will be provided for the
development of an action plan for legislative, regulatory, financial, and institutional changes necessary
to develop a market-oriented housing sector. Technical assistance in this area would cost approximately
US$200,000.
2.33        Regional Development and Reconstruction of the Earthquake Zone. Efforts to
reconstruct the earthquake zone to date have been primarily ad hoc. At the request of the GOA, a study
will be performed to evaluate the prospects for regional development of the zone and devise policies and
public investments to complete reconstruction and continue the economic and social rehabilitation of the
zone. 'Te cost of the study is estimated at US $300,000. The Terms of Reference are included as Annex
5.
2.34        Support to the Earthquake Engineering Center. The Earthquake Engineering Center
played a major role in the review of housing for Phase I of the project and is to have an even bigger role
in the housing strengthening subcomponent programmed for Phase II. However, the Center lacks some
basic equipment such as computers and electronic testing equipment it needs to perform this function. The
purchase of this equipment, estimated at about US$180,000, will allow highly trained local seismic
engineers to evaluate the seismic quality of structures to be repaired under the project.
2.35        Evaluation of Phase I of Project Implementation and Preparation of Phase II.
Technical assistance and training will continue under the Japanese Grant to permit the evaluation of the
Phase I components and the continued preparation of Phase II, including the preparation of detailed design
and engineering for Phase II works. The estimated cost is US$350,000.



-11-
F. Project Costs and Finandng
2.36        The project is expected to cost a total of US$46 million with US$28.7 million in
incremental costs including US$20.7 million in foreign costs and US$8 million equivalent in local costs
(see Table 2.1). Sunk costs of US$17.3 million equivalent, covering investments in infrastructure and
partially completed housing and factory shells are included in the overall cost estimates. Incremental cost
esimates are based on final designs and bills of quantity for Phase 1 (30% of total costs), and preliminary
designs for Phase II. Base costs are estimated as of June 1, 1993. In view of the local inflation rate, cost
esdmates have been expressed in US dollars throughout this report. Furthermore, due to rapidly shifting
prices and exchange rates and the absence of good market comparators in Armenia, a physical
contingency of 10% on technical assistance and 15% on other components and a price contingency of
15% have been used.
2.37        IDA would finance 98.6% of total incremental costs for an amount equal to US$28.0
million equivalent, including 100% of foreign and 95% of local costs (see Table 2.2). IDA will not
finance costs resulting from taxes or duties. Grant financing of approximately US$0.35 million from
Japan will fund preparation of Phase II. Additional grant financing from USAID may further expand the
techiical assistance program. If such financing is found, the amount of tne IDA credit will be reduced
or reallocated to increase funding of other categories. Up to 10% of the credit amount may be used for
retroactive financing. Advance contracting has been proceeding in the period since negotiations.



-12-
Table 2.1: Project Costs
US$ Million
Local  Foreign       Total       Percent
Land Sites and Infrastructure                    1.7      -           1.7       4%
Constuction: Sunk Costs
Housing                                         5.9      -           5.9       13 %
Factory Shells                                  9.7      -           9.7       21%
Construction: Incremental Costs                  5.7    13.2          18.9      41%
Technical Assistance                             0.2    2.1           2.3       5%
Design, Supervision, Administration              0.1    0.5           0.6        1%
Base Costs                                      23.3    15.8          39.1      85%
Physical Contingencies 8                         1.0    2.2           3.2       7%
Price Contingencies (15%)                        1.0    2.7           3.7       8%
Total Contingencies                              2.0    4.9           6.9       15%
Total Costs                                     25.3   20.7           46.0
Table 2.2: Project Financing
US$ Million
Loal       Foreign     Total
State Authorities
(and, infrastructure, sunk costs)                    17.3          -         17.3
(5% of incremental local costs)                      0.3            -        0.3
IDA
(incremental costs)                                  7.7          20.3       28.0
Donor Assistance9                                     0.4          0.4
Sub-total (excluding sunk costs)                     8.0          20.7       28.7
Total                                                25.3          20.7      46.0
8Physical contingencies are 10% on technical assistance and 15% on all other activities.
'the US$0.4 million in donor funds listed is Japanese Grant Funds utilized for preparation of Phase
II of the project.



-13-
G. Project Benefits and Risks
2.38         Benefits of the project include a major impact on poverty alleviation in the EQZ through
employmeuiL creation and subsidized improved housing and other welfare infrastructure. It will also
include policy development in the housing sector and promote the institutional development of a private
construction industry through competitive procurement regulations and improved construction supervision.
2.39         This is the first time that the Bank/IDA has financed physical works in Armenia, and
neither Bank/IDA staff, Government officials, nor Armenian professionals can fully anticipate problems
that might occur. This difficulty has been mitigated by allowing for a mid-term review after
implementation of Phase I of the project, by keeping the project small in scale and scope, and by
including larger contingencies than usual. In addition, there is a blockade affecting the main supply ioutes
into Armenia, and civil strife in Georgia can interfere with shipments. This has been mitigated by
carefully reviewing transportation constraints during preparation and maximizing the use of private sector
importers and suppliers, who have a better record of overcoming these problems. In other operations,
it has been found that local unfamiliarity with Bank/IDA procurement regulations can slow
implementation. The training of PIU staff, government officials and local contractors in Bank/IDA
procurement procedures which has already been initiated during project preparation should reduce delays.
Furthermore, a major portion of the Technical Assistance and Training program has been dedicated to
this potential problem. There is a risk that changes in the project implementation staff (see Paragraph 3.3)
will delay implementation of the project, although the commitment to the project the GOA has displayed
suggests that all efforts will be made to reduce this risk. Despite Armenia's lack of experience in
working with the Bank/Association, the Government has completed all required steps in the preparation
process on time. Finally, there is a risk that occupants might be unwilling or unable to pay for the
maintenance of the units, making the housing component less sustainable than desired. However reduced
design standards and costs will make the project more cost effective than its original design, and payments
from beneficiaries under the project will be larger than they have been without the policy changes that
are being attempted.
H. Economic Evaluation
2.40         The factory shells component amounting to 23% of project costs was subject to economic
analysis. Selected factories for phase I show a weighted average rate of return on incremental project
investments of 50% and collective creation of 2,500 pemanent jobs. One factory has been conditionally
included; it will be subject to either a reduction of scope or a replacement of another enterprise. A rate
of return for housing is impossible to calculate in the absence of a housing market; therefore housing
investments have been selected based on their efficiency Oowest cost solution) and their contribution to
sector goals (e.g. privatization, poverty alleviation, cost recovery, promotion of individual initiative in
housing provision). Annex 3 gives details of the evaluation performed.
1. Environmental considerations
2.41         The project has been placed in category "B0 in accordance with Operational Directive
4.01. All housing rehabilitation will include the provision of environmentally sound disposal of sanitary
(including reconnection to sewage treatment plants) and solid wastes; this will be a significant
improvement over the present post-earthquake situation. Reconstruction of water supply systems will be
done in order to prevent cross-contamination with waste lines in case of future disturbances. Building
standards will be reviewed to ensure public health issues are addressed and Feismic considerations are



-14-
included to mitigate any potential future damage by earthquakes. The enforcement of these standards will
be evaluated during supervision missions.



-15-
m. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization Responslbilities
3.1          The general outline of responsibilities is as follows. The specific responsibilities for each
component are given in Annex 12.
3.2          Cental Government. Primary responsibility for managing the project will reside with
the Ministry of Economy (MOE), which has responsibility for both the earthquake reconstruction effort
and policy reform. The loan proceeds will not be on-lent to other organizatioi.s; they will remain central
government funds and the cost recovery proceeds will accrue to the Ministry of Finance. The
Government's current Housing Policy Reform unit will be expanded under the Housing Policy Assistance
Strategy outlined in Annex 1.3, and will coordinate efforts in diffeient parts of the Government in this
area and will prepare the reform action plan.
3.3          Project Implementation Unit. Preparation of the project was managed by a Project
Preparation Unit created within MOE. After the loan is approved by the Association and signed by the
Government, this organization will become a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which will oversee the
construction process and the preparation of Phase II of the project. The Director of the PIT, who has
already been appointed, will report to the Minister of the Economy. The PIU, with assistance of an
international consultant, has completed an operational manual of its internal policies and procedures, and
put in place a satisfactory accounting system. A competent local accountant has been recruited, and will
be supported by periodic visits from an international consultant. Likewise, vxic'edures for procurement
and management of contract oversight have been designed. It is expected that the staff recruited for the
Project Preparation unit will largely be maintained, although contract management and construction
supervision personnel will be added to facilitate implementation. Employees of the PIU are all employed
as consultants, and they have had to give up Government employment or take a leave of absence in order
to take the positions. The organization chart of the PIU is included as Annex 9. At negotiations it was
agreed that the Borrower will maintain a Project Implementation Unit headed bv a fuil-time project
manager, whose experience and qualifications shall be acceptable to the Association, and who shall be
assisted by competent staff in adequate nunbers (para. 4.1, g).
3.4          Local Construction Fnrms. Given the size of the contracts to be awarded, it is likely
that the majority of the works will be performed by local construction firms. There is an emerging
private construction industry that will compete for contracts in the project. However, it is expected that
most of the bids for contracts within this project will come from public firms.'0 Allowing state-owned
firms to bid on contracts should not lessen the level of competition, since it will increase the number of
fums bidding and public construction firms no longer receive any financial assistance from the
Government. It is expected that the Armenian construction industry will be able to handle the anticipated
10 As a measure of the anticipated participation of public and private firms in bidding for contracts
in this project, at a recent publicly announced training seminar fo- construction firms on Bid
Preparation and General Conditions of Contract, one third of the firms represent.e were privately
owned.



-16-
level of work; a review of the state construction firms both inside and outside of the earthqtuake zone
found that they possess sufficient capability to perform the tasks required and are present in sufficient
number to ensure competition. Using competitive bidding procedures to create competition among
publicly-owned construction firms is consistent with the government's policy reform program; the GOA
has already announced that state construction firms will participate fully in the privatization prograrr. that
is already underway.
3.5          International Consultants will be employed within the PIU to manage and supervise the
construction process; a Contracts Manager has been recruited, and will oversee the construction contract
procurement, project planning and supervision and contribute to the construction industry transformation;
he will also introduce appropriate quality, quantity and cost control systems thereby assisting in the
development of a competitive local consultants industry and he will advise the local consultants carrying
out construction supervision on related matters. Short term international consultants will be employed
far training activities and to develop specific management systems.
3.6           Local Governments. The Armenian central government still exercises considerablt;
control over local governments. Nonetheless, the municipalities of Gumri, Spitak and Vanadzor already
have supplied written documentation confirming their agreement with the proposed terms and conditions
of the programs on cost recovery and designs. The municipalities will manage the bathhouse
subcomponent and serve as the designated agent of the central government in the housing components,
where they will be responsible for managing the recipients individual loan accounts.
B. Project Phasing
3.7          P-oject implementation will be divided into two phases with a mid-term review at the end
of Phase I. Phase I will emphasize rapidly meeting the EQZ population's needs for shelter and
employment. Thus, the first phase consists primarily of completion of nearly finished apartments and
initiation of factory shell construction. Pilot projects in single family housing and community bathhouses
will be initiated in Phase I, to begin testing those subcomponents, and expanded in Phase II. Work will
begin on the Regional Development and Reconstruction Study and the GOA will employ local long-term
consultants in its Office of Housing Policy Reform to formulate the action plan, and identify topics where
short term studies by international consultants might be useful. An implementation plan has been
prepared for Phase I and is attached as Annex 7; also during the implementation of Phase 1, preparation
of the sub components for Phase H will be conducted. The expected breakdown of components between
Phase I and Phase II is shown in Table 3.1.
3.8           Preparation of Phase I has continued since negotiations. All cost estimates and designs
have been completed. The first lot of contracts were awarded in early October 1993. Tendering other
contracts is awaiting credit effectiveness.
3.9    A mid-term review is planned for no later than June 15, 1994 to assess the experience of Phase
I, to revise procedures and cost estimates or re-design subcomponents if necessary, and to re-allocate
funds between cities or components if judged desirable. Bank/IDA staff will complete the appraisal of
sub components for Phase II. At negotiatons it was agreed that activities to be financed in Phase 11
wndd be subject to prior approval of the Association as a part of the mid term review of the project
(vara. 4.1, h). In Phase ll, apartment units at a high stage of completion will become less prevalent and
a pilot effort in strengthening and rehabilitating damaged apartmnent buildings will be initiated. More
importantly, approaches which have been less traditional in the socialist housing system, such as single



-17-
family housing and improvements in temporary housing areas such as the community bathhouses will be
launched, Short-term studies on housing policy will be performed. In the factory shell component, a
number of newly identified shells will be constructed. Work on the Reconstruction Study will continue
during Phase 1I. Annex 6 shows the distribution of specific subcomponents between Phase I and Phase
II.



-18-
Table 3.1: ExpenditurEs by Phase of Project and Subcomponent
(Excluding Land, Infrastructure and Sunk Costs)
lroect Compone         City                      Ph:  I   Unt    Totcl        Ph       Unit      Total     Projct Total
Cos      USS       II       Cost     US$000    US$000
USS     000                 USS
1. HosNg8.
a. Compleion         Gumri                          385    2400       924       350     4000       1400              2324
Spitak                        102    2000       204        52      4000       208               412
Vanadzor                      370    2000       740       300      4000      1200               1940
b. StrUgienns        Gumri                            0        0                200     3000        600               600
Spitak                          0        0                         3000       150               IS0
Vanadwr                         0        0                160     3000        780               780
c. SingtFamily       Guni                           D.a                89 |      .A                 731               820
Housing            Spitak                          .sa               89       U.s                 687               776
Vaned=zo                       v.                89       u.a                 692               781
2. Municipal
Services
A. Basthouses        Qumin                            4   20,000       80        27   20,000        540               620
Spitak                          3   20,000       60         5   20,000        100               160
Vanadzor                        3   20,000       60         6   20,000        120               IS0
Solar Heaing                        30,000       30         6   30,000        IS0               210
b. Infiaructars      Gumui                                                        0                 500               500
SpitiStep                                       504         0                   0               504
Vanadzor                                                    0                 500               500
c. Comunuity
Faciitie                                                                                          600               600
3. Factory             Gumnn                           2              2,114        0                   0              2,114
Complete             Spitak                          1               507         1                1,000             1,507
Vaadwor                         2              2,423        1                1,000             3,423
6. TA & T=rainng       Cona. & Ptocuremnt                               300                          900              1,200
HousingPolcy                                     100                          100               200
EArthquake Racon.Study                           ISO                          IS0               300
Ebrthquake Engineering
Cofter                                           180                                             IS0
Evaluation of Phase V[
Phate II                                        350                                             350
7. Superviion &
Adminbstation                                                                                      388               632
TOTAL                                                                 9,238                        12,i26            21,764
Condngercies
Physical
TA                  10%                                              132                           154               286
Works, ec.          15%                                            1,187                         1,645             2,835
Price (Is%)         15%                                            1.583                         2.149             3.732
GRANDTrOTArL                                                         12,140                        16,477            28,617
ecW2U, 199J



-19-
C. Procurement
3.10         The project elements and procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2. All
works, equipment materials to be financed from the Association credit proceeds would be procured in
accordance with the Bank/IDA Guidelines for Procurement.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS'
(US$ million)
7able 3.2: Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
ICB          LCB        OTHER         N.B.F.'      TOTAL
1. Land Sites & Infrastruc.                                           1.7          1.7
2. Sunk Costs                                                        15.6         15.6
3  Housing
a. Completion                           6.0                       0.2          6.2
(6.0)                                  (6.0)
b. Strengthening                        1.9                       0.1          2.0
(1.9)         -                        (1.9)
c. Single Family Hous.                 (2.4)        (0.8)#         -           (3.1)
4. Municipal Services
a. Bathhouses                          (1.2)        (0.4)          -           (1.6)
b. Infrastructure        (0.5)         (1.5)          -                        (2.0)
c. Community Facil.                                 (0.8)          -           (0.8)
5. Factory Completion        (2.0)r      (6.6)        (0.7)3'         -          (9.3)
6. TA & Training               -            -          (2.3)dI        0.5         (2.3)
7. Supervision & Admin.                                (0.8)     _    _           (0.8)
TOTAL                         2.5          19.6         5.8          18.1         46.0
________________________     (2.5)         (19.6)       (5.8)          -          (28.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amount's financed by IDA/IBRD.
a/ Figures may not add to totals due to rounding.
b/ Non-Bank Financed; financed 100% by the Government or other financing agency.
cJ Local shopping
d/ Consultancies
e/ Construction materials



-20-
3.11         Civil Works. The civil works included under the project consist of: (a) completion of
apartments in scattered buildings in Gumri, Vanadzor and Spitak; (b) strengthening of buildings,
previously occupied but vacated after the earthquake; (c) development of single family housing, d)
completion of factory shells; (e) bath houses; and (f) infrastructure.
3.12         Given that the contracts for housing (a), (b), & (c) above would entail predominantly
small scale and geographically scattered works and that local contractors' prices are expected to be
competitive and well below international market prices, foreign bidders are not expected to be interested.
Furthermore, housing completion, strengthening, infrastructure and factory completion components are
partly constructed and unsuitable for the international competive bidding procedure. Therefore, civil
works conas with a contract price below US$1.5 million and a total value of US$19.6 million would
be awarded through local competitive bidding. In addition, contracts for small value (price below
US$80,000) shall be procured on the basis of price quotations from at least t ree local bidders and are
expected to have a total value of US$2.0 million.
3.13         Bank Standard Bidding documents: "Procurement of Works (Smaller Contracts)" have
been fialized for Armenia. The Russian translation for this project was approved by the World Bank's
legal department.
3.14         Goods. The goods to be financed from the credit proceeds include construction materials,
office and equipment and supplies, resource materials, furniture, computers, and vehicles. To the extent
practical, these items would be grouped into procurement packages. Contracts for equipment and
materials estimated to cost more than UF$50,000 equivalent each will be procured through ICB. Items
that cannot be grouped or groups of itemns estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per
contract, or off-the-shelf items such as office supplies and equipment, may be purchased on the basis of
obtaining a minimum of three price quotations up to an aggregate value of US$700,000. Domestic
manufacturers may be granted a margin of preference for ICB contracts in accordance with the guidelines.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods, as modified to suit the project requirements, will
be used for ICB.
3.15         Consultants. Consultants for technical assistance financed under the project (totalling)
US$ 1.9 million) will be selected in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency'. Sample formats for
consultants services contracts will be used for contracting consultants. Long-term technical assistance
from abroad would be contracted for the project management subcomponent. Long term local consultants
would also be hired for the PIU. Other technical assistance would be short-term, individually recruited
consultants, with assignments ranging from two weeks to about three months. They will be hired on the
basis of comparing at least 3 CVs. There is sufficient local expertise for consulting assignments under
the project. Technical assistance contracts would comprise about four contracts for US$1.6 million; about
10 contracts with individual short-term international consultants of about US$20,000 each; and about 30
contracts with local consultants average value US$3,000.  Training, activities are expected to be
included in TA contracts. Overseas training would be carried out through Bank/IDA procedures. Direct
contracting with local and/or foreign training agencies and universities would also be used.
3.16         It is estimated that about 80 main contracts ranging from US$10,000 to about US$1.5
million will be signed during the life of the project. These contracts will cover above 90% of the loan
amount.



-21-
3.17         All contracts for goods of a value exceeding US$100,0(0 equivalent and for works
exceeding US$600,000 equivalent will be subject to the Association's prior review. All consultant
contracts, with the exception of contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, would be
subject to prior review. The Association will, however, review terms of references, short lists, and
consultants' profiles for local individual consultants. Selective post review of awarded contracts below
the threshold level would be carried out on about one in 20 works contracts and one in four goods
contracts. All procurement activities will be coordinated by the PIU. The unit presently includes one
local person with procurement knowledge and a long-term project implementation consultant, Contracts
Manager has been engaged to assist the Unit in this area.
3.18         Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows: (a) prompt report
of contract award information by the Borrower; and (b) comprehensive quarterly reports to the
Association by the Borrower (assisted by consultants) indicating (i) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies,
(ii) revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion
time foi individual contracts, and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement. A procurement implementation plan is shown in Annex 11.
D. Disbursements
3.19         The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed in US dollars against:
a.    100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and 80% of local;
b.    100% of foreign and local expenditures, net of taxes, for civil works contracts
for the housing, municipal services and factory shell components; and
c.    100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training and studies.
3.20         The estimated Disbursement Schedule is given in Annex 10.  It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by the Credit Closing Date of June 30, 1996.
3.21         Disbursements would be made against standard Bank/IDA documentation. Disbursements
for contracts, building materials, equipmeat and training with a total value of less than US$50,000 would
be on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOE). In order to ensure the timely provision of funds
available to finance the costs of the project, it is proposed that the Government establish a Special
Account in the amount of US$3 million. Funds in the Special Account would be available to finance only
eligible expenditures under the project.  At negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the
arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Account (para 4.1 i).
E. Accounts and Audits
3.22         The project accounts will be prepared by the PIU during project implementation (para
3.3). The Project Account would identify all sources and uses of funds in carrying out the project,
including a detailed accounting of the use of the proceeds of the Credit and the operation of the Special
Account. The Project Account would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association
and the audit reports would be submitted to the Association within 4 months of the end of the fiscal year.
The audit reports would contain a separate opinion on the operation of the Special Account and the



-22-
statements of expenditure (SOE) procedure, when utilized. Since the auditing profession is not yet well
developed in Armenia, it is expected that a private international commercial auditing firm will carry out
the audits. During negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the accounting and auditing
requirements (para. 4.11j).
F. Project Monitoring and Supervision
3.23         Reporting Procedures. The PIU will provide quarterly reports on the progress of
implementation. In addition, the mid-term review will allow assessment of progress and adjustments to
components. The government will prepare a Project Completion Report according to standard Bank/IDA
policy.
3.24         Inplementation Performance Monitoring Indicators.  Indicators monitoring the
progress of implementation will be collected for the quarterly and supervision reports. These indicators
will track the progress of construction in the vatious components, the performance of the enterprises
benefiting from the finished factory shells, and the social welfare indicators as well as the progress of
housing policy reform. In coordination with the long-term Housing Policy Advisor employed by USAID,
indicators of progress in housing policy such as the number of units privatized, the level of state and
private housing construction, and the volume and price of housing sales, have been developed. These
will be updated throughout implementation both to assist the development of the Housing Policy Agenda
and to provide an analytical basis for future operations.
3.25         Supervision schedule. A tentative supervision schedule is attached. The June 1994
mission coincidec, with the mid-term review. It will therefore focus on the experience as of that date and
the selection of activities to be financed in Phase II. The October 1994 and February 1995 missions will
focus on the experience during the second phase. The August 1995 mission will review project
experience and gather d'-a for project closure activities (PCR, etc.).
March 1994   Jun 1994   Oct 1994   Feb 1995   Aug 1995   Dec 1995
Task Manager               x            x          x          x          x           x
Architect/Planner                       x          x          x          x
Urban Planner                           x
Urban Economist                         x
Industrial Economist       x            x
Financial Analyst                       x               l                            x
3.26         Because the project is with a new borrower and the components are multidimensional,
a greater than usual supervision component of 25 staff weeks a year is recommended.



-23-
IV. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1          During negotiations, the Government confirmed the following agreements:
a.    That the borrower will submit an action plan on housing policy reform as
described in Annex 1.3 at the time of the Mid Term review (para 2.8);
b.    That the allocation criteria for apartments and single family homes will not be
changed without prior approval of the Association (para 2.13 and 2.21);
c.    Specific arrangements and terms of cost recovery for housing (para 2.15 and
2.22);
d.    That bathhouses will be operated as contract franchises with users paying a fee
to cover operation and maintenance (para 2.23);
e.    That the costs of completing reconstruction of the factory sbells will be recovered
from the enterprises under terms acceptable to the Association (para 2.28);
f.    That the Government of Armenia will be required to provide priority access to
electricity supplies to the enterprises benefitting from completed factory shells
(para 2.29);
g.    That the Borrower will maintain a Project Implementation Unit headed by a
full-time project manager, whose experience and qualifications shall be acceptable
to the Association, and who shall be assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers (para 3.3);
h.    That the specific works to be completed under Phase II will be agreed with the
Association as a part of the mid term review of the project (para 3.9);
L     On the arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Account (para
3.21); and
j.     On accounting and auditing requirements (para 3.22);
4.2          There are no project specific conditions of effectiveness.
4.3          With the agreements reached above, the project is suitable for a SDR 20.1 million
(US$28.0 million equivalent) credit under standard IDA terms, with 35 year maturity, to the Government
of Armenia.



-24-
Annex 1.1
Page I of 2
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Housing Policy Reform Program
Legislative Achievements and Outstanding Issues
A. Background
1.           As a member of the Former Soviet Union (FSU) Armenia's housing sector reflects the
common problems found in other countries in the region. The Government of Armenia (GOA)
recognizes that reform of its housing policies will be necessary to achieve the desired goal of transforming
the socialist housing system into a market system. This document summarizes the current status of this
reform program.
2.           Privatizatilon of Housing. The privatization process has been covered by the Soviet
housing privatization policy which charged a price per square meter of housing determined by a formula
based on the condition of the unit. Only about 5% of the stock has been privatized in this manner.
There is urently a developing market for housing sales, though it is small and informal.
3.           New legislation intending to privatize the stock more quickly was passed by the
Parliament on June 6, 1993. The legislation allows sitting tenants to take ownership of their units
effectively free of charge (i.e., with only a nominal fee linked to the size of the unit). A two year period
is allowed for filling such applications, after which ownership reverts to the municipalities. The owners
of the privaized units in a building will be organized into a condominium association"; USAID has a
project developing formal condominium regulations which are being tested in pilot exercises in Yerevan.
The tenants association will be responsible for maintaining their units by contracting with any public or
private management organization. The Department of the Economy of the Government Apparatus is
responsible for developing the details of implementation. Land under the privatized buildings remains
under state ownership.
4.           Privathation of land. Legislation privatizing agricultural land was passed in 1991; 80
% of agricultural land has been privatized to date. There is still no general initiative privatizing urban
land. Thus, urban land still falls under the statutes of the FSU in which individuals were allowed to own,
buy and sell a building but not the land on which it stood although they could be granted a piece of land
for individual housing construction. Work is underway to provide a legal and regulatory framework for
land sales.
5.           Regulation of Urban Land. Tlhe supply of urban land is controlled by a relatively rigid
regulatory environment. Transformation of land from rural to urban uses is allowed only with
The legal basis for condominium associations is under development, although current cooperative
housing legislation provides an interim legal basis.



-25-
Annex 1.1I
Page 2 of 2
authorization and approvals, even in the cases where agricultural land has been privatized; in rural areas
it is still only possible to build housing in designated areas unless explicit approval is obtained. City
master plans designate the area available to urban uses. The role of master plans is even stronger in the
earthquake zone, where reconstruction is under the jurisdiction of master plans created by outside
agencies such as the national city plaming agency. Areas not covered for redevelopment in the master
plan cannot be reconstructed.
6.           Rent Reforms. As in other republics of the FSU, rents in Armenia all below the cost
of maintaing units. Monthly "rent" payments actually cover utilities and trash removal services; this
payment is approximately 5% of the amount necessary for full cost recovery. In February, 1993, the
monthly payment was increased by a multiple of 6.25, an amount approximately equal to the current
600% annual inflation rate. However, the rent component was increased by only a factor of 5 and
currendy falls at about R50 (ess than US$ 1) per month for a four-person household living in a 50 square
meter unit. Government officials involved in the formation of housing policy recognize that the current
rent policy is neither sustainable nor desirable, but under current economic conditions a rapid reform
program is not implement able. However, the Government's plan is to increase rents to cover operations
and maintenance and utility charges to cover costs by the end of 1994; there are also some efforts to
explore rent reform at the local level as in the case of Yeravan City.
7.           Housing Flnance. The very high inflation currently experienced in Armenia precludes
the development of a stable, growing housing finance system. The Government is considering
mechanisms to collect costs of new housing from individuals through some sort of indexed payment
scheme, although it recognizes that any such scheme is bound to be imperfect in the current envirownent.
A law covering credit relationships and guarantees-including mortgages was submitted to the Parliament
two years ago and is expected to be approved this year.
8.           Refonn of State Construction Companies. State construction companies have been
included under the legislation privatizing state companies passed last year. Under this legislation,
employees will get 20% of the shares-and the equivalent portion of profits-in their enterprises. Tle
Government's plan is to complete the privadzation process by year's end. The government has already
liberalized building materials prices.



-26-
ANNEX 1.2
Page I of 2
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Housing Policy Reform Program
Housing Policy Reform: Statement of Intent"
1.           The Government's basic policy objective for the housing sector is to transform the current
socialist system into a market system of housing. The Government's role in a market housing system
wil be to facilitate the efficient private provision of housing for all Armenians and to assist lower-income
families who are not able to afford reasonable housing. Individuals should be allowed to provide
themselves with the type and location of housing which meet their needs. The transformation will require
constitutional changes as well as reforms of laws, regulations and institutions.
2.           Istitutional Reforms. The government will restructure public agencies to adjust to their
new role as facilitator in the provision of housing rather than direct providers of housing. The
Government will also review the division of responsibilities between central and local government to
facilitate this end.
3.           Basic Framework of Property Rights. Armenia will further develop the legal basis for
a basic framework of property right able to support fully the emergence of competitive housing markets
by clarifying the ability of individuals and public or private institutions to buy or sell, rent, occupy and
use land and housing.
4.           Housing Flnance Development. The government recognizes that long-term credit such
as housing finance can only exist in a stable macro-economic environment and will do everything in its
power to create such an environment. Armenia also recognizes that a sustainable housing finance system
will require a coherent program of financial sector reform. Armenia has begun to establish the legal
framework for housing finance, including laws on real estate mortgages, property registration, foreclosure
and eviction, and will continue these efforts. In the few cases, such as the Earthquake Zone, where the
Government is still actively involved in the provision of new housing, credit mechanisms will continue
to be used as a mechanism for cost recovery.
5.           Rent Reforms. The Government is committed to raising rents in the public housing stock
in order to ensure adequate resources for maintenance of the existing stock, to ensure fiscal survival of
local governments and to integrate the market for new and existing housing. The Government recognizes
that households may hesitate to privatize their units until rents approach :^e costs of ownership. In
raising rents, however, the Government will remain committed to alleviatir, the addition burden placed
on vulnerable and low income families through a temporary or permanent targeted subsidy program.
6.           Subsidies. The Government recognizes that large-scale subsidies going to the housing
'2Prepared by the government for the pre-consultative group meeting of May 1993.



-27-
sector threaten central and local governnent fiscal stability, especially the subsidy created when the cost
of operating and maintaining the state rental stock exceed rents. The current program to privatize housing
is designed to address this problem. The Government also recognizes that current programs do not assure
that subsidies go to the neediest households. Within the framework of a targeted social policy,



-28-
ANNEX 1.2
Page 2 of 2
mechanisms will be explored to target subsidies to such households, to make the subsidies explicit and
to control their impact on government finances.
7.           Housing Privatization.  The Govermment commits itself to implementing this
Privatization Act fully during 1994 and to submit facilitating regulations and laws, such as those such as
those allowing condominium associations by September 1994.
8.           Building Codes and Standards. The Govermnent will review current building codes
and standards to insure that they meet public health and safety needs without imposing excessive costs.
Reaiistic standards meeting this principle, including seismic safety codes, will then be enforced.
9.           Urban Land Polcy. Mechanisms will be created to facilitate the development a private
market for land ownership and development. Use of urban land will be subject to new zoning and other
land use regulations that balance public and private interests; allow participation by private parties in
decisions regarding land use; and that protect health and safety, environmental and historical amenities.
10.          Building Industry Privatization and Restructuring. The Government is committed to
rapid progress in reducing the role of public institutions in the construction of housing, restructuring state
construction companies and removing obstacles to private construction companies and building materials
industries. The government will introduce competitive bidding procedures in state construction projects.
'Me Government will establish a legal and regulatory framework for a competitive building industry (such
as regulations on insurance, guarantees and bonding) to assure that the public interest is protected without
creating unreasonable barriers to entry for small private firms.
iI.          Housing Management and Maintenance. The goal of the Government will be to
withdraw rapidly from direct responsibility for housing maintenance. The Government will encourage
the formation of condominium associations that would shift responsibility for maintenance from public
provision to the associations. The Government will amend cooperative housing laws so that they can
function similar to condominiums both in terms of building management and unit sales. The Government
will allow private companies to compete for maintenance contracts for the remaining state buildings.
12.          Cost Recovery. The Government of Armenia intends to transfer the responsibility for
the costs of housing to private individuals through three mechanismns:
a.    Privatization of the publicly-owned housing stock, to transfer the responsibility
for maintenance costs to private individuals;
b.    Withdrawal of the Government from the direct construction of housing except for
special cases (e.g., the Earthquake zone); and
c.    Using credit mechanisms to recover at least part of the costs of construction in
the few cases where public construction will occur.



-29-
ANNEX 1.3
Page I of 2
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Housing Policy Reform Program
Housing Policy Reform: Program for External Assistance
Based on the analysis of the current status of Armenian housing reform and the
Government of Armenia's Statement of Policy Intent, the Government of Armenia proposes the following
outline of how a technical assistance/training program could function in parallel with the International
Development Association assisted Earthquake Reconstruction Project. The TA program is oriented
towards assisting the Government in implementing its general reform agenda. This assistance would be
coordinated with that of other multi-lateral and bi-lateral agencies such as the EEC and USAID which
may be working in the area. The Office of Housing Reform of the Russian Republic has also offered
assistance in the form of sharing its experience in developing a reform agenda.
a.    Technical assistance will be provided in two stages, largely corresponding to the
Phases I and II of the International Development Association project:
(i)    Phase I: Development of the Housing Reform Agenda. Long-term
local consultants would be employed to assist the coordinating unit. It
is proposed that these individuals be housed in a special division within
the Ministry of Economy. These consultants will develop a work
program for the necessary legal reforms and policies. The consultants
will have backgrounds in economics, urban planning or law; their
selection will be monitored by the coordinating unit. Monitoring
indicators to track the pace of housing sector reform should also be
identified. This work can be supplemented by the training activities
described below. The Director of the Office of Housing Policy Reform
of the Russian Republic has offered assistance in developing this agenda.
(ii)   Phase U: lnitiating Implementation of the Program. The long-term
consultants will be supplemenkted by domestic or expatriate consultants
to work on specific studies identified as high priorities in the Reform
Agenda. It is assumed that approximately 4 studies, each with 6 staff
weeks of input, will be performed. Again, the Russian Republic has
offered to assist by providing copies of their proposed legislative and
regulatory initiatives.
b.    Training. Specific training activities in support of the development of the
reform agenda or its implementation will also be undertaken. These activities
may include:



-30-
ANNEX 1.3
Page 2 of 2
(i)    Study tours to Russia, other parts of the FSU, and East and West
European Countries to discuss housing reform.
(ii)   Participation in international conferences or training seminars on these
topics.
(iii)   Provision of draft legislation and research materials on housing policy in
reforming socialist economies.
Given the reliance on local consultants, assistance mainly from the Russian Republic, the costs
of the program will be low. It is estimated that the total budget will be approximately
US$200,000.
c.    Monitoring the Reform Process.  USAID's resident advisor on housing
policy has agreed to assist the GOA in designing indicators to track the
development of the housing sector and the housing policy reform process. These
will consist of:
(i)    Housing Production. Housing Units finished annually;
(a) Public
(b) Private
(ii)   The government Housing Production Budget;
(iii)   Progress of Privatization.  Number and area of Housing Units
privatized annually and cumulatively;
(iv)   Number of condominium associations formed;
(v)    Hectares of urban land privatized (when land privatization law is enacted);
(vi)   Government housing maintenance budget, and
(vii)  Development of Housing Market
(a)   rate and average price of housing sales
(b)    house price to income ratio



-31-
ANNEX 2
Page I of 3
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Cost Recovery
1.           Apartment Completion. According to the housing policy of the government of Armenia,
new housing will no longer be provided free of charge. However, the GOA recognizes that under current
economic conditions, full recovery of construction costs will be impossible and any cost recovery scheme
will be imperfect. Nonetheless, the government feels that this is a crucial moment for establishing the
new policy and an attempt should be made to establish the precedent through even an imperfect cost
recovery program. The government has already determined that a program funded by the Government
of the Russian Republic will be designed to resemble a credit program, though it will not pass through
the banking system. In other words, recipients of housing units will r-ceive a credit, which they wal then
be required to pay back. Both the balance and the payment will be indexed.
a.    Ioan Balance. 'Te initial loan balance will be calculated by applying the
average cost per square meter of completing apartments by the size of the unit.
The loan balance of serviced lots and single family housing will be the cost of
infrastructure and core houses, since the land will be provided at only a nominal
fee;
b.    Monthly payment calculation. The monthly payment will be determined by
dividing the initial dollar value of the loan after the up front subsidy (see below)
by the number of monthly payments to be made'3;
C.    Number of Monthly payments. Payments will be made on a monthly basis for
twenty five years;
d.    Down payment. There would be a nominal cash down payment as established
by the GOA;
e.    Subsidies. An up-front subsidy of 75% will be provided on equity grounds a per
the provisions of the law on mass privatization of housing. The monthly
payment for the average unit is 25 % of a minimum salary'4;
13 This corresponds to a real interest rate of approximately zero (or slightly negative after dollar
inflation). While such an interest rate is not normally acceptable under bank policy, it is
significantly higher than the current ccirnmercial rates in the FSU which are substantially negative.
Thus, this system will at least be less damaging than cther systems that might be employed.
14 This amount is only slightly above the average of willingness to pay cited by residents of the
EQZ surveyed in the sociological survey conducted by the Project Preparation Unit.



-32-
ANNEX2
Page 2 of 3
f.    Indention method. Loan balances will include a dollar value maintenance
clause. Monthly payments will be indexed to the minimum wage;
8.   bLan Collateral. The households receiving the units will own them. However,
in the short run, the government will retain title as a form of collateral. As soon
as the legal framework currently under consideration in the Parliament is passed,
title will be passed to the nouseholds and a format mortgage registe -d;
h.    Owner Occupancy. Recipient households would be required to occupy their
units for five years. After that date, they could sell to any other individual
willing to assume the debt; and
i.    Specl Conditions. Beneficiary households will be required to surrender their
temporary housing unit and any rights to its location.
Beneficiary households which were not able to meet the monthly payment could perform
community service (e.g. landscaping, painting, work in community centers, etc.) for up to 2 years. The
program would be administered by the municipality.
2.           Single Family Housing.  Cost recovery for single family housing will employ a
mechanism similar to that of apartment completion with the following modifications:
a.    Amount of Loan. The initial amount of the loan will be the cost of providing
services to the lot and of constructing the coi house. Land will be provided in
accordance with existing legislation, i.e., at a nominal fee;
b.    Subsidies. Subsidies not exceeding 25% of the loan amount will be provided on
equity grounds as per the provisions of the law on mass privatization of housing;
c.    Owner Occupancy. Recipient households will be required to occupy their unit
for at least three years, after which it may be sold to any individual wi1ling to
assume the loan; and
d.    Special Conditions. Recipients of serviced plots without core houses will be
allowed to transport their temporary housing units to the site allocated to them.
Otherwise they will surrender the unit. Al! recipients must surrender any rights
to the current location of their temporary housing unit.
Community service will not be allowed in lieu of payment.
2.           Factory Shells. Since the enterprises chosen to participate in the project were selected
according to their profitability (among other factors) they will be required to cover all the incremental
costs of construcdon. 'he loan agreement will be signed by the enterprise prior to signing the contract
fir construction of the shell and will include the following terms:



-33-
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
a.    Amount of Loan. Full incremental costs of construction expressed in dollar
value;
b.    Term. The loan will have a 15 year term including a three year grace period
during which interest will be capitalized. The enterprise will be required to sign
the loan agreement before the initiation of construction, although the loan itself,
and the accrual of interest, will not begin until completion of construction;
c.    Interest rate. The loan will have an interest rate 0.5 % above the World Bank
lending rate;
d.    Monthly Payment. Will be made in any currency with a dollar maintenance
clause; and
e.    Collateral. Title to the unit would be held by the government unti the
enterprise is privatized, at which point a mortgage would be registered.
The GOA has confinned its agreement with each of the terms and procedures outlined above.



-34-
ANNEX-3
Page I of 3
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Summary of Economic Justification's
1.           Housing component. Several factors in the Armenian environment make calculation of
a classic economic rate of return analysis difficult if not impossible for the housing sub components.
Calculation of the costs of the program can be performed relatively easily, however, benefits are more
difficult to calculate. The Government has only begun its housing reform program, so rents have yet to
be raised to a level which will allow them to be used as the shadow price of housing. A housing sales
market is developing, but is still to small to serve this purpose.
2.           Nonetheless, it is possible to demonstrate that the subcomponents pursue the project's
objectives with as high a level of economic efficiency as is possible in the environment (see para 2.10).
Subcomponents have been selected so as to use the least costly methods of supplying the population of
the earthquake zone with housing as rapidly as possible.
Table 1: Average Cost of Finishing Uncompleted Apartments
Avg. Cost-Phase I         Avg. Cost-Phase II
Housing Completion                     US$2200                    US$4000
Housing Strengthening                                             US$3000
Single Family Housing                                             US$2835
3.           Factory Shell Component. Completion of the factory shells was subjected to a financial
analysis and the economic viability of the component can be demonstrated in two manners.
4.           Economic Rate of Return. First, the completion of the shells can be analyzed according
to classic economic rate of return analysis. In this case, the estimated incremental profits after completion
of the shells was counted as benefits while the incremental costs of completion was counted as costs.
Ideally, project benefits and costs would be calculated using shadow prices reflecting their real economic
values. However, given the wide array of price distortions on both the cost and benefit sides, accurate
calculation of shadow prices may not be possible. As a consequence, future profits were subjected to a
sensitivity analysis where it was assumed (Scenario 2) that they would only be 75% of projections and
(scenario 3) that they would only be 50% of projections.
5 Detailed data on cost estimates for all components and financial projections for the
factory shell component are included in the project files.



-35-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
5.    As can be seen, the Gumri Textile Factory"6 falls below the accepted rates of return in all
scenarios while the Gumri Armelectrocondenser Factory falls below acceptable rates in the more stringent
scenarios. All other rates of return are high and robust across scenarios.
Table 2: Rate of Return Analysis - Factory Completion Shell Component
Enterprise            Scenario I        Scenario 2         Scenario 3
Gumri Textile                   3%                -1%                -6%
Gumri Armelectrocondenser       12%                7%                1 %
Spitak Clothing                 38%               28%                17%
Vanadzor Precision Tool         47%               35%                22%
Vanadzor Fur                    70%               52%                34%
6.    Debt Service Capability. In addition, eacn factory was analyzed to determine whether it could
service the debt incurred to finish the shell under the terms negotiated for thk leases (and the implicit
sub-loans). For a loan at 8.5%, 15-year term, and 3-year grace period, an enterprise must repay
R150,977 yearly for each R1,000,000 borrowed. The total funding required by each enterprise, their
annual loan payment, and projected annual after-tax profit are shown in the table below:
Table 3: Enterprise Profit and Annual Loan Payments
Total Funding        Annual Loan       Proj. Annual
Enterprise          Required (Rubles)    Service Payment        Profit
Gumri Textile               R1,576,800,000        R238,060,530      R131,695,000
Gumri Armelectrocondenser    R537,600,000         R81,165,235        R81,740,000
Spitak Clothing              R507,200,000         R76,575,534       R135,771,000
Vanadzor Precision          R1,440,000,000        R217,406,880      R445,175,000
Machine                 I_I_I
Vanadzor Fur                 R983,200,000         R148,44e,580      R523,621,000
16 A reduced alternative that seem to meet all selection criteria is presently subject to cost estimates
and preparation for inclusion in Phase II.



-36-
AN-NEX 3
Page 3 of 3
As in the rate of retum analysis, It was found that the Spitak and Vanadzor were more
than sufficiently profitable to service a loan to finish their factory shells.   The Gumri
Armelectrocondenser was also able to service the loan, though by a less impressive margin. The Gumri
Textile Factory can not service the level of debt requested.
7.           Condusion. On this basis it was determined that completion of the factory shells for all
but the Gumri Textile plant was economically justifiable. In that case, discussions have been opened with
the factory's management to determine whether the size of the shell can be reduced or another enterprise
can be found to share the facility and part of the cost. As a consequence, this factory shell has been
tentatively included at its original cost until the detailed information about the reduced alternative is
available. If no satisfactory arrangement can be reached in which the loan can be serviced, the funds will
be re-allocated to other components at the time of the mid-term review.



-37-
ANNEX 4
Page I of 2
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSRUCTION PROJECT
Issues in Contracting and Procurement
A. Issues in Contracting and Procurment
1.           hnportation of Construction Materials. A high proportion of the materials needed to
finish constuction-wood, windows, doors, glass, reinforcement steel, plumbing fittings, etc.-niust be
imported. Interviews with numerous building materials importers have shown that creative solutions are
being employed to bring such materials in through the blockade. These importers report that the time
from order to delivery is approximately one month."7 Contractors bidding on construction contracts
will be expected to arrange for the importation of the materials they require. The tender documents will
request information on the techniques they intend to employ.
2.           Currency Provisions. Because of recent inflation and currency turmoil, all bids for ICB
and LCB contracts will be expressed in hard currency, as has been agreed with GOA.
3.           Price Adjustment. There will be no price adjustments.
4.           Advance Payments. A maximum of 20% advance payment to successful contractors is
proposed to provide initial cash for the start-up of works.
5.           Alternative proposals. Alternative proposals will not be invited. The limited scope of
work and experience of the bidders create difficulties in evauating other proposals. If required,
modifications can be made as variation orders.
6.           Bidding procedures. The bidding period for LCB contracts will be 30-45 days,
depending upon the size of the contract. The bidding procedures have been discussed with the Ministry
of the Economy. Subsequently, bids will be submitted for opening in public as stipulated in the tender
documents. The bid evaluation will be undertaken by the Project Office with assistance by consultants.
The post qualification of contractors will form an important part of the bid evaluation. Award of LCB
contracts will be proposed by the Project Manager, an evaluation report will be sent to the Association
task manager for review before award of contract.
17 In fact, a large quantity of materials traded between Russia and Iran apparently still travel via
Armenia.



-38-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
B. Technical Assistance and Training in Procurement
7.           Training. Two training seminars have been planned as part of the start up of the project.
The first, which took place in June 1993, was a four day seminar designed to make Armenian contractors
familiar with how a competitive construction industry works and in particular how to prepare bid
proposals. The course was conducted in Armenian with assistance from the American University of
Annenia. Representatives of over 20 construction firms, 7 of them private firms, attended and the course
was well received. A second training seminar in World Bank/IDA procurement techniques will be
offered to GOA staff expected to be involved in procurement for this or other Bank or IDA financed
projects.
8.           Technical Assistance. While the use of competitive bidding procedures to award
construction contracts is consistent with the GOA's goal of privatizing the construction industry, there
is little experience with such mechanisms and no experience with World BankIIDA procedures. An
experienced international consultant has been employed, as a contracts manager who will ensure correct
and efficient bidding and, with the assistance of the American University of Armenia, will provide
technical assistance contributing to development of a competitive construction industry in Armenia. He
will also be responsible for advising on the quality and quantity control within the project. All direct
project supervision of the individual projects will be carried out by local consultants, and the Contracts
Manager has already introduced proper quality and quantity control systems and he will monitor the local
consultants, thereby contributing to the development of an efficient local consulting industry.



-39-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Regional Economic Study of the Earthquake Zone
and Long-Term Infrastructure Investment Strategy
Terms of Reference
1.           Background. Northern Armenia has suffered two devastating blows. First, the 1988
earthquake destroyed much of the economic capital, infrastructure and housing. Then, the breaking up
of the Soviet Union stopped the massive reconstruction effort started shortly after the earthquake, while
the accompanying economic and political changes have isolated Armenia from its traditional markets and
supplies. Energy supplies in particular have been reduced to a trickle. The earthquake zone is now
experiencing severe social and political distress which, together with massive unemployment, has induced
some emigration.
2.           Objectives of the Study
a.    To Develop a Regional Economic Plan to reduce disparities between the
earthquake zone and the rest of Armenia in income per capita and rate of
employment by enhancing employment, exports and productivity;
b.    to identify the sectors/subsectors in which the region has or could develop a
comparative advantage or potential for growth, together with an implementation
strategy; and
c.    to design a public investment program for long-term reconstruction of urban,
technical and community infrastructure, supporting the Regional Economic Plan.
3.           hnplementation. The study will be carried by Armenian specialized institutions and
individuals, with assistance and supervision by the Project Implementation Unit. It is anticipated that a
considerable amount of preliminary data review and preliminary interviews with knowledgeable
individuals will be necessary before any primary data collection can be started. Hence it is suggested that
the study be undertaken as soon as possible after approval of the project loan. The total duration of the
study is estimated at approximately nine months. An intermediate report showing preliminary results of
data collection (regional economic audit and urban/infrastructure survey), and preliminary work on the
regional economic plan and investment program, should be submitted by August 1994, and the final
report should be completed by January 1995.
4.           Regional Economic Audit. It is crucial to identify clearly the region's existing economic
strengths. Therefore, a regional audit will be undertaken to identify sectors in which the region has, or
could have, factor advantages or growth opportunities, such as specific comparative advantages, scale
economies, export-based growth or import substitution. [Examples could include, depending on the
sector, strong human capital resources, cost advantages or indigenous raw materials].



-40-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
5.            It will also be important to identify the obstacles to growth in the selected sectors.
Examples could include inadequate infrastructure, rigidity of economic/industrial structures (e.g.
monopolies), or the lack of favorable environment for start-up businesses and SMEs.
6.            The consultant will review existing data on economic activity in the region, conduct
interviews with policy makers, academicians and other knowledgeable informants, and carry out surveys
where necessary. The goal will be to assess the viability of specific industry sectors in the market
economy in which Armenia will be functioning in the future - given the likelihood that it will have more
diversified trading partners than under the Soviet system.
7.           Regonal Urban and Infrastructure Survey. In parallel, an overall survey of the
regon's urban, technical and community infrastructure will be conducted. It will include (i) a
comprehensive inventory of existing infrastructure and earthquake damages, together with current plans
for reconstruction, completion or new investment, and (ii) an assessment of the adequacy of existing
infrastucture and proposed investments in supporting an enhanced level of economic activity in a
profoundly modified environment. In particular, the survw y will investigate the following:
a.     a brief review of the region's sLdtlement and population patterns and its urban
hierarchy, as modified by recent events (unemployment, population displaced by
the earthquake, political refugees and emigration);
b.    a review of the urban and regional master plans and of the related regulatory
framework, in particular where they affect the allocation )f land and facilities for
industrial, commercial and residential use; plans for duMaged residential and
industrial buildings (repair, reconstruction or demolition with rezoning and
redevelopment of the site) will also be reviewed;
c.    a review of the housing situation (e.g. damaged or destroyed housing, temporary
'domik' settlements, resulting housing needs, new types of housing, land
development requirements);
d.    technical infrastructure and services (e.g. energy supply, roads, railways, public
transportation,  water  and  sewerage,  international  and   national
telecommunications);
e.    identificaion of possible environmental issues (e.g.  industrial pollution,
treatment plants, energy wastage);
f.    higher educational facilities and research institutions; and
g.    other social-cultural infrastructure such as health facilities, prinary and secondary
schools, recreational and cultural failities;
Where feasible, the findings of the survey will be illustrated with maps.



-41-
ANNEX5
Page 3 of 4
8.           Regional Economic Plan and Investment Program. The Plan to be developed by the
consultant will include the following overall elements:
a.    Identification of priority sectors/subsectors as discussed above;
b.    Recommended criteria for allocation of infrastructure investment;
c.    A strategy for the removal of obstacles to growth, and measures to stimulate
growth; and
d.    Development of an approach for vectoring donor assistance to the region.
The Plan should recommend specific actions in the three categories detailed below:
9.           Policy Measures. This category includes components which can be established by
governmental action and which have the result of improving the business climate or otherwise stimulating
eonomic activity in the region. Examples of such actions are:
e     Regionally discriminating credit or taxation policies based on sectoral analysis;
e     Priority access to energy or other supplies;
e     Priority access to credit or equity capital;
a     Facilitation of access to land and other facilities through mastwr plans and land use
regulations; and
-     Measures to promote foreign direct investment or Joint ventures.
10.          Infrastructure Investments. Investments in infrastructure should stimulate economic
activity in the, region, support the actions recommended in the regional economic plan and, by relieving
hardship, provide the region's population with a more positive outlook for the future. The consultant will
develop the elements of an investment strategy, including:
a.    a method for the evaluation of proposed investments
b.    a set of criteria for deciding the priority and timing of investments;
c.    a list of infrastructure investments in the different areas reviewed in the
infrastructure survey (see E above), including existing and new proposals; and
d.    a ten-year investment strategy, justified in view of the overall objective, including
investment projects recommended, evaluated and prioritized by the consultant,
together with preliminary cost estimates.



-42-
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
Examples of possible investments that could be considered, in addition to essential
reconstruction needs, are:
e     Strengthened communications infrastructure, e.g.  to facilitate interaction between
research/educational institutions in Yerevan and enterprises in the region;
*     Development of solar energy for industrial and domestic hot water production;
*     Construction of enviromnentally safe sewerage systems for priority industrial zones;
*     Residential land development for owner-builders, and upgrading of "domik" settlements,
providing employment in public works and small-scale private building firms; and
*     Small hydro-electric dams;
11.          Training, Technical Assistance and Business Support. A third category of actions,
requiring investment, could include:
*     Locally-available management/entrepreneurship training and consultative assistance (eg,
help with procoss and product technologies);
*     Export promotion, potentially provided along with other needed business support
services:
X     Alliances between research/educational institutions and enterprises; and
*     Technical assistance with enterprise restructuring or enterprise business strategy;



43-
ANNEX 6
Page I of 2
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Action Plan by Phase of Project and Subcomponents
Pre-Implementation                  Phase I                    Phase U  
Housing
Unit            All cost estimates and design    Construction of initial     Construction of Phase
Completion      studies; Tendering process and  projects; Selection of units for  II
contract awards               Phase U and preparation of
l ___________    ________________________    tendering  documents
Strengthening   Engineering, feasibility and  Selection of units and finalized   Construction of pilot
cost studies                  cost estimates; tendering and    strengthening projects.
contracting.
Single Family   Design studies and cost       Initial phase of construction to   Construction of
Housing         estimates                     test concept; Tendering and    expanded pilot proj,.ct
I ________      ___________________            contracting  for  Phase  n                           I
r___________                             Municipal Services                                         l
Bathhouses      Design studies and cost       Initial construction projects;  Expanded construction
estimates; tendering and      evaluation of suitability to
contracting of Phase I        community needs; tendering
and contracting for phase II                         l
Water and      ICB contracting of engineering  Contracting of               Construction of
sewer           study                         Stepanovan/Spitak project;     Stepanovan/Spitak
Design studies for other      Water project
possible projects
Factory Shells
Design and cost studies;      Begin construction of small    Finish construction
evaluation of beneficiaries;  shells;                        small shells; start
tendering and contracting                                    construction large
shells
TA, Training, Consultancies
Housing                                       Selection of long term         TORs for short tern
Policy                                        consultants; Preparation of    consultancies;
action plan                   completion of studies



-44-
Pre-Implementation               Phase I                  Phase n
Regional      TOR for study                Star study                  Finish study
economic
sWtdy
Procurement   Training in tendering and    Long-term contract manager    Long-term contract
general procurement; select    in place;                manager;
long-term consultants



-45-
Page I of 2
ARMENIA EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
ACTIITY                  START       COMPET BY         IN CHARGE
LO I OF PASE I (World ft procrencw appmv4l, lcal compedwv bidding)
HOUSE COMPLETION. SPUAX WATER PIPE
DESIGN & COST ESTDMATES                                1993, 07.01      JP
DD DOC ENGLISH)                                            07.01        AB
RUSSIAN TRANSLATION                                        07.01        AB
BID DOC1PROC. APOVAL                                       07.15        FS
BID ADVERTISEMENT PREPARE                                  07.15        TM
BID ADVERTISEMENT APPROVAL                                 iM7.20       FS
ID ADVERTISEMENT PUBLISH                                   07.23      M. BC.
BIDDING                                                    08.30        PD
9ID OPENING                                                08.30        TM
BID EVALUATION & REPORT                                    09.22     PD/M. BC.
BID EVAL. APPROVAL WB                                      10.08     CoMactor    I
AWARD OF CONTRACr                                          10.10
CONTRACTOR MOBIIZATION                                     11.01
CONTRUCnION PERIOD                                      Vari
LO 2 OF PHSE I (main wnber qfcnaucu)
BATH-HOUSES HOUSE COMPLETION, SINGLE FAMILY HOUSES, FACTORY SHELL
DESIGN & COSr ESTIMTES           I                     1993. 08.01      PD
BID ADVERTISEMEN PREP. & PUBLISH                           10.08        PS
Bi  OPENING                                                1125[      MIN. EC
LOT3 OFPMSE I
PACTORY SHELLS LCB
DESIGN AND COST ESTIMATES                              1993, 11.01      PD
BID ADVERTISEMENT PREPARATION &                            11.22        PD
PUBLISH                                                    12.17       M. EC
BID OPENING
CONSULTANTS, INTRNATIONAL
CONTRACTS MANAGER
PREP OF TERMS OF REFERENCE                             199,06.30        TM
PREPARATION OF ADVERTISEMENT                               0630        USAID
SUBMISSION OF PROPOSAL                                     0730
EVALUAIION OF PROPOSALS                                              USAIDA1M
CONTRACTING                                                11.15       USAJD
MOBIL1ZATION                                               11.20    CONSULTANTS
LOT4 PHASE I
RETENDERING



46-
_______ - =   
ACTIVITY                        START          COMPLETE BY             IN CHARGE
BDW DOCUMENTS                                                        1993 11.01
BID ADVERTISEMENT, PUBLISH                                            1994 01.03           PD
BIDDING                                              01.03                01.31         Contractor
BID OPENING                                                               01.31       MIN. ECON.
BID EVALUATION & RBPORT                              01.31                02.15            PD
BID EVALUATION, NO OBJECTION                         02.16                02.25           TM
AWARD OF CONTRACT                                                         02.25         Min. Econ
CONTRACrOR MOBILIZATION                              03.01                03.10         Contractr
CONSMRUCTION                                         03.10             Vanes
To be done as pant of ptoject preparation for Phasc  1993,09.01       1994,05.01         PDtTM
FACTORY SHEllS
SBLBCTIONCRnE" REVIEW                            1993,11.15           1994, 01.1S       Consultant
FACTORY SCREENING                                     11.15                01.15         PDItTM
DETAIE  ANALYSIS                                     02.01                 03.01        Consultant
DESIGN REVIEW                                         03.01                04.01           CM
"BD)DOCUhBIS                               I           04.01                05.01           CM



47-
ANNEX 8
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Contents of Implementation Volume
Annex 1:     Social Survey of Residence of Temporary Housing Areas
Annex 2:      The Construction industry
Annex 3:     Water Supply and Sewerage Subcomponent
Annex 4:     Local Governments and Housing Management Bureaus
Annex 5:     Housing Completion Subcomponent
Annex 6:     Seismic Strengthening and Repair
Annex 7:     Single Family Housing Subcomponem
Annex 8:     Community Bathhouses Subconiponent
Annex 9:     Factory Shells Subcomponent
Annex 10:    Disbursement Schedule
Annex 11:    Procurement Schedule
Annex 12:   Implementation Responsibilities



Kn           ;
i i~~~~~~I
- 8t -~~I
*~~~~~~~I 6f ;:lll



-49-
ARA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
E;timated Schedule of Disbursments of the IIDA Credit
____  __________  _____________ i___,._._,_,,_(U SS     m illion)
IDA Fiscal Year    Semester     Disbursements    Cumulative     Cumulative % of
Semester                      Disbursements
FY94            June 94              7.1             7.1              25
FY95            December 94          5.5             12.6             45
l__________  June 95                  6.0            18.6              66
FY96            December 95          6.5            25.1              90
June 96              2.9            28.0             100



-50-
ANNEX II
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Procurement Schedule
Component                    Phase I                               Phase II
ICB         LCB        OTHER         ICB         LCB         OTHER
HQUSIN.G               Avg         Avg          Avg          Av          Avg          Avg
Num  Amt  Num  Amt  Num   Amt  Num   Amt  Num   Amt  Num   Amt
Completion       =           7    270                              9    300    4      50
| Strengthening   _                _                               10   150    6      50
Single Family                             6    45                 10   200    5       50
Bathihouses                   1    130    4     15                 2    400    5      S0
Infiutructure                 1    500                             6    300
Comm. Fac.                                                         2    150    6      50
FACTORY                       5    900    6    50                   4    500
iSHEI1   _LLS
TA &                                       5    200                             5     200
TRAINING
S. PERVISION                              30    15                              30    20
MATERIAIS                                              4    604 60O_



-51-
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Implenentation Responsibilities
COMPONENT   SUBCOMPONENT               ACTIVIVy           RESPONSIBLE
Housing         Apartment Completion   Design             PPUIPIU
Contracting        MOEPIU
Construction       Construction Firms
Supervision        Consultants
Cost Recovery      Municipal Office of Housing
and Communal
________________ _ _Services/MOF
Strengthening         Design              EEC/PIU|
Contracting        PIU/MOE
Supervision        EEC/PIU
Single Family Housing   Design            PIU
Allocation         Municipalities
Contracting        PIU/MOE
Construction       Private contractors
Supervision        Consultants
Cost Recovery      Municipalities/MOF



-52-
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Factory Shells                        Selection of Factories   PPUIIBRD
Contracting              PIU/MOE
Construction             Private contractors
Supervision              Consultants
Cost recovery            MOF
Water and sewer     Demand study            International consultant
Organization and mgnt    Min. Communal
study                    Serviceslconsultant/PlU
Contracting              MOEIPW
Construction             Private contractors
Supervision              Consultants
Operations and           Min. Communal Services
maintenance
Cost recovery            Municipality
Bathhouses          Design                   Consultants
-Contracting construction    MOE/PIU
Supervision of           Consultants
construction
Management               Private concession
contractors
Contracting of mgmt      Municipalities/PIU
concessions
Supervision              Municipalities
Cost recovery            Managers
(fees)/Municipalities
(contract bids)
Community facilities  Preparation of proposals    Municipalities
Evaluation of proposals  Consultants
Approval of proposals    MOEIMOF



GEORGIA  lbSI.ooosb L  4rOSsbl                                                                     4r                                   IBRD 23943R1
r 0dnkohOtli;GEORGIA            om,k                                                                                                                  7                                         8
u,h A,  ~~~~    rO Omani  rgoI Ty l oliil                                                                      GEORGIA                                                                     4
ATo oalkrkioj  
0                 Gryosyon  <"                           T n                            T K740kh
|tiItibjuli   /              (      |             Aton  dzhBokh
GU fZ5\t              ROVAKAN.                          y  
' Gelkeno
lbtYo,   f~t~r   9~t hondckhso                                               ,      fsvashen
hlb      2Mn    AtiJ,;k                                          C      -,Krosnoserhd
SOYOO.  '-             To (rb~Kdobek
A-oaets      oiik
}~~~~2                                       /                                              TShom\ o                             A    R M         NA7<  
}  yf  tMeri~Tdlin            /     t      /i                               ^Zi 
t        t   t!; z + j   --9a  i                                           X C   tlmkh.                                     A R M E N I A
Aohtorck/ 
'Maf
ECM                                             7    ~             ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'T' rBs,  Darns
;t OLie) AN r- Wmbec                 un oMar.uoy e                                                                            TOWNS/VILLAGES
norenik            ~          K'8odh.                     MAIN CITIES
Verin MAnovir                /Jfd ^ )KronmnIukh                                         *   NATIONAL CAPITAL
_4V                 7                 .   \  (    DVerinArtaslF  2           /     Gjulliduz               AZERBAIJAN                         RI MAR  Y                                                 40
To lgdi,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~      - PRIMARY POADS
To \f rsh                            SECONDARY ROADS
k  \,   gJ   % v   DzermukX    \                    RAILROADS
r    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
TURKEY
I        y       /          Az3zb ekov    -              To P,chnis
J 92 To91okhfty {x>_> y J XAngekTo oShho
lb  Nh'dSh rskh o
5                           t '   ~~~~~~~~~~~~T. Nvkhkhrio'          /    t      T      M
AZERBAIJAN
<                                            rO Nokbirn'-~~~~~        ~~~~~~~                      ~      ~~ _ ~  .- ~. t -
S   ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     \                          _ <//K hod = on ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|K
ISLAMIC                                          TO                                      Zan
nbnn9o. son m                                                                                                                                      MILESREPUBUC  -bZowron  MILES 0  10  20  30  40
-39-   -.dd inkl"-on n; )11                 OFrIRAN                            <4                           l   o    15 rtA_'           _        LOME% O 1    20  30   40   60   60  70
TnOrdn                         l Zange7on
44 '                                       4y 45'                                                                                  47'                   4S
JANUARY 1994



