Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Report No. 17255
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (EQRP)
(CREDIT 2562-AM)
DECEMBER, 1997
Infrastructure Sector
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 6, 1997)
Currency Unit   =    Armenian Dram (AMD)
AMD$1    =    .001992627 US$
US$1    =    501.85 AMD$
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Oct. 1996     Feb. 1997      June 1997         Oct. 1997
413.71        463.52         499.75            501.85
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRC)NYMS
AUA       American University of Armenia
CBRD       Center for Business Research and Development
EBRD   -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC   -  European Commission
EQZ  -  Earthquake Zone
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
GOA   -  Government of Armenia
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA   -  International Development Association
LCB   -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOE  -  Ministry of Economy
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
MTR       Mid -Term Review
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
TA      Technical Assistance
UN   -  United Nations
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Program
USAID   -  United States Agency for International
ARMENIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECA
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader: Margaret Thalwitz, ECS][N
Responsible Staff: Eric Peterson, Task Manager,
Seema Manghee, Daniel Maly (ECSIN),
Deniz Baharoglu (Consultant)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Preface ................................................ i
Evaluation Summary ..............................................                                                                           ii
Part I.      Project Implementation Assessment ...............................................1
A.  Background and Statement of Project Objectives .............................................. 1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives .............................................. 3
C.  Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation ..............................................                                   9
D.  Project Sustainability .............................................. 9
E. Bank Performance ..............................................                                                                 10
F. Borrower Performance ..............................................                                                             11
G.  Assessment of Project Outcome .............................................. 11
H. Future Operations ...............................................11
I.  Key Lessons Learned ...............................................11
Part II.  Statistical Tables ..............................................                                                                14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ..............................................                                                     14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..............................................                                                 16
Table 3: Project Timetable ..............................................                                                          17
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Original, Revised and Actual ..............................................                         17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..............................................                                  17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ..............................................                                       18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ..............................................                                                18
Table 8A: Project Costs ..............................................                                                             19
Table 8B: Project Financing ..............................................                                                         19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................................                                                20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..............................................                                                 21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..............................................                             22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................                                              23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..............................................                                                  23
Appendixes:
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Miscellaneous appendixes
C- I Disbursement Graph
C-2 Civil Works Implementation Summary
C-3 Sample Survey
Map: IBRD 28965
This document has a restricted distribution and 'may be used by recipients.only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



-i-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (EQRP),
CREDIT 2562-AM
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Earthquake Reconstruction Project
in Armenia, Credit No. 2562-AM in the amount of SDR 20.1 million (US$28.0 million equivalent),
signed on February 1, 1994, and effective on April 4, 1994. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1997,
(the original closing date was June 30, 1996) at which time a balance of SDR21,470 remained, giving a
total disbursement of 99.89 percent of the Credit. However, in USD (the equivalency denomination for
local disbursements) the project disbursed 106 percent of the appraised value (USD29.7 million).
Cofinancing for the project was provided for preparation through a Japanese grant, in the amount of $1
million.
This ICR was prepared by Eric Peterson with Seema Manghee, Daniel Maly (ECSIN) and Deniz
Baharoglu (Consultant) and reviewed by Judy O'Connor, Country Director, and Margaret Thalwitz,
Sector Leader, of the Europe and Central Asia Region. Preparation of this ICR was begun during the
Bank's final supervision mission, April 28, 1997. It is based on findings of that mission and on material
in the project file. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by completing the borrower's
project completion evaluation report, drafted by the Government team, including the Project
Implementation Unit, under the Ministry of Economy.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (EQRP),
CREDIT 2562-AM
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives and Background
1.    Although it came some five years after the devastating earthquake of December, 1988, the World
Banks' Earthquake Reconstruction Project - an IDA credit - was the first significant donor activity in
Armenia in the post-Soviet era. The credit was the only major program to pick up the challenge to
continue rehabilitation work which had begun under Soviet leadership, but had stopped upon the
dissolution of the Union. The Bank's effort--prepared and appraised in 1993 and made effective in
19941--came therefore at a time of economic stagnation, political transition, and by then low morale in
the Earthquake Zone (EQZ), as several years had passed without repair of physical and economic
infrastructure. The project was seen primarily as one of an emergency/humanitarian nature and therefore
did not include significant policy or reform conditions. However, certain concepts were introduced, such
as the principle of housing cost recovery and the Bank's competitive procurement requirements. While
the emergency nature of the project appears diminished by the delay between the earthquake and project
effectiveness, emergency conditions remained, as government and private sector lacked the means to
take mitigating initiatives: intolerable living conditions in temporary shelter areas and lack of basic
infrastructure still dominated the environment in the EQZ when the project was appraised, and remain
for many citizens of the EQZ to this day.
2.    The project pursued three objectives: a) to provide improved housing and living conditions to
residents of the earthquake zone (EQZ); b) to reconstruct basic infrastructure which will support
employment creation; and c) to support a longer term sustainable program for rehabilitation in the EQZ.
An economic rate of return could not be calculated for housing, municipal and TA components, but was
estimated at an average of 50 percent for factory shell completion. Expected risks included the Bank's
inexperience in physical works in Armenia; potential effects of a trade blockade; local unfa,miliarity with
Bank procurement requirements; possible turnover of local implementation staff; and the chance that
occupants of restored housing would be unable or unwilling to pay for maintenance of the units. Efforts
were made in project design to mitigate these risks, for the most part, successfully.
3.    The project comprised four components: Housing, including completion of unfinished
apartment buildings; repair and strengthening of damaged buildings; and land development and
construction of serviced plots and starter houses for single family ownership and self-help expansion;
Municipal Services, including provision of bathhouses for temporary housing areas, completion of
selected water supply and sewerage sub-projects in Spitak, Vanadzor, and Stepanavan; and community
facilities; Unfinished Factory Shells: the completion of factory shells for existing profitable industries;
Technical Assistance, Training, Equipment and Studies, for procurement and construction supervision
housing reform, regional development of the Earthquake Zone, and to support the country's Earthquake
Engineering Center.
A delay of nine months between negotiations and effectiveness was due to the need to resolve political questions arising from
regional territorial conflict.



iii
4.    The credit of SDR 20.1 million was disbursed locally in USD equivalent. At appraisal, this was
equal to $28.0 million. Disbursements followed the projected profile except for a lag at the start (see
Appendix C-1), totaling at closing $29.75 million, thanks to SDR appreciation. Moreover, additional
civil works valued at about $600,000 were achieved through the use of contractor penalties, for a total
value of $30.3 million. Non-Bank financed land, infrastructure and sunk costs valued at $17.3 million
bring the total project cost to $47.6 million, including an estimated $500,000 in local contributions. The
project closed June 30, 1997, one year later than originally estimated, in order to enable the execution of
civil works outputs that were substantially higher than expected at appraisal.
5.    Preparation and implementation of the project is judged to be satisfactory. Implementation was
consistently efficient and effective. Borrower performance was satisfactory: the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) was called upon to introduce fully competitive procurement to construction enterprises that
were at the time still largely state-owned, and which functioned in a strongly ingrained culture of
vertically organized, centrally administered production. This was done successfully. Accuracy and
timeliness in satisfying Bank requirements was consistently good; management and audit reviews are
positive; and technical operations ensured cost-effective and technically acceptable construction,
although improvements over former Soviet finish quality was generally not achieved. A key attribute of
the PIU that contributed importantly to implementation success, was its professional soundness and
political/commercial independence, an attribute that was supported by the PIU's parent Ministry. The
Bank's performance was also satisfactory, particularly during preparation and early supervision, when
circumstances were at best difficult and unpredictable, with a borrower undergoing transition, and
usually weak local governance. Project design allowing for flexibility at Mid-Term Review, a realistic
proportion of policy development and reform, and effective implementation procedures, personnel
selection, and training can be credited. A key attribute of project design contributing to implementation
success was the fact that it built upon an existing body of experience and engineering work that was
undertaken in the suspended Soviet assistance program. The project used the allocation system and
engineering work already developed under the Soviet program and added certain critical elements such
as competitive procurement, cost recovery (albeit token), business and housing privatization,
condominium formation, and business development assistance for bathhouses and factories.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Lessons Learlned
Physical Components
6.    Civil Works comprise 98 percent of project expenditures. The project largely exceeded its
physical targets except in some cases where experimental approaches were reduced at Mid-Term Review
because of altered needs (bath house solar heating, single family housing) that could not be foreseen
during project preparation. Of the three major civil works components, Housing and Municipal Services
each disbursed about double the SAR-projected amounts, with higher (although not proportionally so)
unit outputs. Factory Completion disbursed the projected amount, but produced three more units than the
projected seven. This increase is partially explained by an increase of 47 percent in additional funds
shifted to civil works above the originally allocated amount at the Borrower's urging, and when it
became apparent that implementation capacity could sustain higher outputs. Cost estimates were robust,
thanks to effective competition among many eager contractors and the designation of USD equivalency
for all contracts. See Appendix C-2 for Civil Works Implementatiion Summary by subcomponent and
city, comparing outputs projected in the SAR and Mid Term Review with the final outputs.



iv
Institutional Components
7.    The proposed Technical Assistance budget was reduced during implementation as local capacity
proved strong, other donors contributed to institution building needs, and Government pressed for a
greater focus on civil works investments. While greater expenditures on TA might have increased
project benefits in some areas (additional support to municipalities, building capacity for Condominium
Associations, and design of single family housing, for example), it can be argued that the additional civil
works investment was at least equally beneficial, and that development objectives have not been
compromised as a consequence.
8.    The only policy component in this emergency project was the Housing Policy Action Plan,
which was submitted by Government at Mid-Term Review in fulfillment of a legal covenant. The Bank
team provided comment during the policy development process, which was being executed under a
separate USAID program (USAID provided a full-time consultant in the field for three years.). The
framework for sound policy formulation is developing well, and the project provided the opportunity to
test changes in the existing approach to housing: Condominium associations established under the
project are contributing to the local experience with housing privatization and maintenance, although
results are inconsistent as of project completion.
9.    Support for a longer term sustainable program for rehabilitation in the EQZ was provided
through help to the country's national seismic risk management efforts, Regional Economic and
Infrastructure Studies, equipment for the national Earthquake Engineering Center, the organization and
division of labor of existing national seismic institutions, and application of experimental seismic
resistance technologies along with the development of locally appropriate engineering codes.
Operations
10.   Some weaknesses (weak condominium associations, and municipal housing operations) are
showing up in operational aspects of the project, as investments are put into use. Some are due to
unforseeable conditions during project design and to lack of coordination between the Bank project and
parallel activities of a Diaspora-funded NGO. However, the public bathhouses--which local
governments are obliged under the project to put on private concession bases--are likely to operate as
intended, though at the time of Credit Closing this could not yet be confirmed. Factory operations were
not sufficiently underway at project completion to assess their performance. As previously mentioned,
more vigorous use of TA resources during supervision might have mitigated some of these weaknesses.
Key Lessons Learned
11.   The project can on the whole be seen as having been well-designed for an emergency
reconstruction activity, with very limited policy content and good flexibility for adjustment at Mid-Term
Review. The independence of the PIU from political and commercial pressures has been of key
importance. This is largely due to enlightened borrower attitudes and Bank support. Efforts by the Bank
preparation and early supervision teams to prepare and assist in the introduction of the competitive
procurement process were clearly very effective, and critical to project success.
12.   More difficult to predict during preparation were potential operational difficulties inherent in
administering a project with the geographic breadth of the EQRP under embryonic local governance, and
without consistent local operations capacity. Operational aspects were perhaps not sufficiently pre-
defined in some areas, and were unrealistic in others. The capacity of local authorities to take on



v
responsibilities under the project were more limited than expected. Finally, the Borrower's desire to
focus intensively on civil works production might have been tempered somewhat more than it was during
implementation, with a more critical eye on preparation and support of operational needs.
13.   Sustainability in future operations might be better ensured in a reconstruction project if some
follow-on technical support could be built into the operations phase for several years after
implementation completion. The recommendation would be foir a level of continuing support to
operations that are deemed to require a longer term commitment to be sustainable than planned at
appraisal. The EQRP would benefit from such an activity. (Condominium Associations would greatly
benefit from on-going assistance).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARMENIA
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (EQRP),
CREDIT 2562-AM
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    Armenia suffered a series of devastating shocks between late 1988 and the early 1990's--the
earthquake of December, 1988, the dissolution of the Soviet Union and a trade blockade due to regional
political disagreements. The earthquake caused extensive damage to housing, factories, community
facilities and infrastructure in about one third of the country. Between 25,000 and 30,000 people died in
the earthquake and approximately 530,000 persons were left homeless, a serious blow to a country of
less than 4 million people. In addition, 40 percent of the country's manufacturing capacity was
destroyed just before the country achieved independence and was faced with the need to adopt market
reforms and find new trade partners.
2.    Efforts to recover from the earthquake were thwarted by the political and economic upheaval
that followed the breakup of the Soviet Union. International rescue efforts begun in December, 1988,
and early 1989 were followed rapidly by reconstruction projects led by a committee under the Supreme
Soviet of the USSR, which mobilized plant, material and labor from the Soviet Republics in a concerted
campaign of rebuilding. Work continued until mid-1991, when the Soviet work crews were withdrawn
to their newly independent home countries. This left vast areas of partially completed apartment blocks,
factories, and infrastructure projects, and even more damaged, uncleared, and unrehabilitated buildings
and infrastructure.
3.    The Republic of Armenia joined the Bank in 1992 and requested Bank assistance in re-mounting
the reconstruction effort. Although it was five years after the earthquake, a crisis remained. No
international or bilateral assistance programs in Armenia were focusing on capital investments in
housing or employment, either for earthquake relief or to stimulate a faltering national economy. The
Bank judged that IDA involvement was justified to alleviate pressing economic and social problems and
to provide a unique opportunity to support implementation of basic economic reforms in housing and
infrastructure. It was acknowledged that the volume of reconstruction needed was well beyond the scope
of a single operation. However, the project was intended to provide an opportunity for the government to
reaffirm its commitment to the reconstruction effort and provide the physical basis and a coherent plan
for continuing the process.
4.    The Earthquake Reconstruction Credit was prepared and appraised in 1993 and rr ,. .ctive in
1994. A delay of nine months intervened between Negotiations and Effectiveness becaL . f   need to
resolve political questions arising from regional territorial conflict. The EQRP came thert fore at a time
of economic stagnation, political transition, and low morale in the Earthquake Zone (EQZ), as by then,
six years had passed since the earthquake. Nonetheless, the project was seen primarily as of an
emergency/humanitarian nature and therefore did not include significant policy or reform conditions.
Certain concepts were introduced, however, such as the principle of housing cost recovery, which along
with the Bank's competitive procurement requirements had significant impact. While the emergency
nature of the project appears diminished by the delay between the earthquake and project effectiveness,
emergency conditions remained, as government and private sector lacked the means to take mitigating



2
initiatives: intolerable living conditions in temporary shelter areas and lack of basic infrastructure still
dominated the enviromnent in the EQZ when the project was appraised.
Project Objectives and Expected Benefits and Risks
5.    The three objectives of the Earthquake Reconstruction Project (EQRP) were
(a)   to improve the housing and living conditions of ;residents within the earthquake zone by:
(i) assisting in the completion of unfinished apartments; (ii) repairing and strengthening
damaged apartment buildings; and (iii) assisting in land development and construction of
serviced plots and starter houses for single family ownership and self-help expansion;
(b)   to reconstruct basic infrastructure supporting employment creation through the
completion of: (i) selected water supply and sewerage sub-projects in Spitak, Vanadzor,
and Stepanavan; (ii) provisional bathhouses for temporary housing areas; (iii) additional
community facilities; and (iv) assisting in the completing of unfinished factory shells for
existing profitable industries;
(c)    to support a longer term sustainable program for rehabilitation in the earthquake zone
through technical assistance, training, equipment and studies for: (i) procurement and
construction supervision; (ii) steps toward housing reform; (iii) regional development of
the Earthquake Zone; and (iv) the Earthquake Engineering Center.
Project Components
6.    The project comprised four components:
Housing
(i)    Completion of unfinished apartments;
(ii)    Repair and strengthening of damaged buildings; and
(iii)   Land development and construction of serviced plots and starter houses for single family
ownership and self-help expansion.
Municipal Services
(i)    Provision of bathhouses for temporary housing areas, some to incorporate solar heating;
(ii)    Completion of selected water supply and sewerage sub-projects in Spitak, Vanadzor, and
Stepanavan; and
(iii)   Community facilities.
Unfinished Factory Shells
(i)    Completion of factory shells for existing profitable industries.
Technical Assistance, Training, Equipment and Studies for:
(i)    Procurement and construction supervision;
(ii)    Housing reform;
(iii)   Regional development of the Earthquake Zone; and
(iv)   The Earthquake Engineering Center.



3
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    Project Implementation and Development Objectives Ratings have generally been noted in
supervision reports as satisfactory to highly satisfactory. The ICR mission confirmed these ratings, but
noted that some operational deficiencies are developing and recommended that these be addressed
quickly (see below).
8.    The following can be evaluated for this project: limited sector policy and financial objectives,
institutional development, and physical objectives. No impact on macroeconomics policies was expected.
Economic Rates of Return could not be calculated for the housing, municipal and TA components, but
was estimated at an average of 50 percent for factory shell completion; this is as yet too early to verify.
9.    For most components, project activities have met or exceeded SAR expectations for production.
Disbursement targets were exceeded, except for technical assistance, which were by mutual agreement
reduced during implementation in favor of civil works, as local capacity proved to be strong and other
funding sources were used. Because of SDR appreciation against the USD, available funds were 6
percent ($1.75 million) more than estimated at appraisal, and virtually all was disbursed ($29.75
million). While greater expenditures on TA might have increased project benefits in some areas, it can be
argued that the additional civil works investment was at least equally beneficial, and that development
objectives have, in general, not been compromised as a consequence. Transparent, competitive bidding
has been introduced and consolidated in the construction industry thanks to the large volume of civil
works funded by the project-- in a large number of separately executed contracts with local construction
firms. The increase in outputs is also due to good PIU procurement performance in mobilizing project
savings and contractor penalties.
Sector Policy Impact-- Objectives achieved: design of the project was appropriate for achieving
the limited objectives. Criteria for judging the achievement of objectives were not quantified in
the SAR.
10.   As an emergency project, policy objectives were limited and impact is difficult to measure in the
housing sector. The project attempted to introduce the concept of cost recovery for housing and housing
services, a start on housing privatization and operation through condominium associations, and supported
the drafting of a market-based enabling policy for the sector. The impact of these initiatives is not
possible to measure at this time. The impact on the construction industry, however, is more discernible:
virtually all construction enterprises operating in the EQZ, and others as well, embraced privatization and
competitive procurement procedures, and executed about 140 construction contracts under this
framework. The Bank's procurement procedures, as set up for the project, became by Government
decree the standard for all procurement of foreign donor investment in Armenia. The depth of this
experience promises future sustainability, growth and international competitiveness for Armenian firms.
Financial Objectives-- Achievement of objectives notyet measurable; design of the project was
appropriatefor achieving the objectives. Criteriaforjudging the achievement of objectives were
not quantified in the SAR.
11.   Cost recovery was introduced for housing and Factory Shell completion. The formula for
apartment housing is token in magnitude (25 percent of monthly minimum wage, or about USD 0.50, in
1997) because of prevailing poverty and Government earthquake victim policy. The intention was to
introduce the concept, rather than to produce significant cost recovery sums. Collection experience is
inconsistent as local authorities were called upon to establish their own collection systems. Single
Family housing should in principle produce 25 percent of incremental costs, but the completion of the
single family units came too late in the project for collection experience to begin in any significant
degree, and therefore cannot be evaluated for this report. The Factories component calls for full cost



4
recovery, but the agreed three-year grace period for repaymrent delays collection until well after Credit
Closure, and therefore cannot be evaluated.
Institutional Development Objectives--Objectives achieved: design of the project appropriate
for achieving the objectives. Criteriafor judging the achievement of objectives were not
quantified in the SARP
12.   Technical assistance was reduced considerably during implementation at the request of
Government and approval of the Bank. Local capacity proved to be strong and other funding sources
were used. Most reallocated TA funds were used for civil works, as desired by the Borrower. Local
consultants contributed and gained valuable experience using local talent and involving students.
13.   TechnicalAssistance and Equipment has supported a range of studies and initiatives. Many were
generated by the borrower, from short educational videos describing project and procurement procedures
to regional economic and infrastructure studies. In many cases, local resources have been used, notably
the Center for Business Research and Development (CBRD) of the American University of Armenia
(AUA). The regional studies were financed by the PHRD grant; a study of national seismic risk
management institutions was provided by the French government. Other TA activities include assistance
in developing and institutionalizing innovative seismic strengthening techniques, advisory services to
municipalities on operating public services through private concessions, and the factory business
management advisory services mentioned above. Training and advisory services for the formation and
operation of condominium associations was also provided, and in retrospect, closer supervision and
additional support in this area would have been beneficial. Perhaps the greatest impact of the project's
technical assistance was on project implementation, including support for procurement and financial
operations.
14.   The Housing Policy Action Plan submitted by Government at Mid-Term Review in fulfillment
of a legal covenant supported a policy development process. This was assisted by USAID under a
separate project and led to reform-minded legislation. The Bank team provided comment during this
process and contributed to the shaping of this legislation and policy development. Condominium
associations established under the project are contributing to the local institutional experience with the
privatization of housing ownership and maintenance.
15.   The Regional Economic and Infrastructure Studies (RES and RIS) were undertaken in order to
guide the development of long-term infrastructure needs for the EIQZ. These studies a) assessed the
comparative advantage of the EQZ with regard to economic activities and b) recommended infrastructure
repair and development needed to enable such activities to take pilace.
16.   The Seismic Risk Management Study recommended rationalizing Armenia's current Seismic
institutional framework to clarify the division of labor between tvo active government entities with
overlapping responsibilities in the area of seismic risk management.
17.   Assistance in drafting an engineering and application coie for laminated rubber bearings in
seismic base- and top-isolation systems was provided by the project, as was assistance to the Nairit
industrial enterprise in making possible the manufacture of the bearings in Armenia. Top isolation and
base isolation pilots were undertaken to establish methods and materials appropriate for low technology
environments. The project funded a pilot project that retrofitted an occupied apartment building with the
base-isolation system without requiring temporary resettlement of the tenants, something that had
heretofore not been accomplished anywhere in the world.



5
Physical Objectives-- Objectives substantially achieved; design of the project appropriate for
achieving the objectives. Criteria forjudging the achievement of objectives were quantified in
the SAR
18.   Civil Works comprise 98 percent of project expenditures. Of the three major civil works
components, Housing and Municipal Services activities each disbursed about double the SAR-projected
amounts, with higher outputs. In housing, the increase in output was not proportional to the increase in
resources, because the greater number of housing units rehabilitated or finished meant that the levels of
completion at start of work became substantially lower in remaining candidate buildings. Factory
Completion disbursed the projected amount, while producing ten units as against the projected seven;
community facilities rehabilitation was increased, but bathhouses were reduced. The project largely
exceeded its physical targets except in some cases where experimental approaches were reduced at mid-
term-review because of altered needs and other matters that could not be foreseen during project
preparation. See Appendix C-2 for Implementation Summary by subcomponent and city, comparing
outputs projected in the SAR and Mid Term Review with the outputs as of ICR mission.
19.   The large increase in civil works outputs is partially explained by the fact that over 100 percent
additional funds were allocated to civil works above the originally allocated amount, when it became
apparent that implementation capacity could sustain higher outputs. The additional funds came from
several sources within the original credit envelope: $4.96 million categorized as unallocated in the Credit
Agreement, $1.4 million (of $2.3 million) reallocated from Technical Assistance categories at the request
of Government, $1.75 million due to a favorable trend in the SDRIUSD exchange rate (local
disbursements were denominated in USD), and additional contract work valued at about $600,000
accruing from contractor penalties. Cost estimates were robust, thanks to effective competition among
many eager contractors and the designation of USD equivalency for all contracts.
Housing Subcomponent
20.   Housing is the largest civil works subcomponent, accounting for about 55 percent of the civil
works disbursements. 2,857 housing units were completed, rehabilitated, or strengthened, compared to
the appraisal target of 2069 units. There were three activities under this subcomponent. Completion --
funded the completion of residential structures started immediately after the 1988 Earthquake, suspended
upon the break-up of the Soviet Union, and is the centerpiece of the housing subcomponent. Unit costs
rose during implementation as the degree of completion of candidate buildings fell; thus while an
average of over $4,150 per unit was projected in the SAR, the end of project average was $5,600, with
typical unit costs capped at $8,500 for project selection purposes. The Strengthening subcomponent
funded the strengthening of structures damaged and weakened by the EQ that could be made habitable
through retrofitted structural reinforcing or seismic isolation systems. This subcomponent has
established new technologies for the strengthening of existing structures, notably new techniques for
installing seismic isolation systems in new and existing occupied buildings. The project is the world-
wide pioneer for several techniques, and two project pilot structures have attracted international
professional attention by establishing appropriate low technology methods for the strengthening of
existing structures. Single Family Housing, the third housing activity, introduced a limited experimental
program of houses on single plots, in various stages of construction from foundations and incomplete
core units intended for self-help completion, to complete two-story units built for subsidized sale.
Because of contractor delays, these were completed near the end of the project, at which time allocation
by municipal authorities of the new units was incomplete and occupancy was therefore low. A
preliminary assessment of local officials is that absence of credit will make it difficult for EQZ citizens
to build out the empty foundations of the core units on their own and will remain unpopular for the near
future. The Operational Plan outlined by Government (see Appendix B) mentions this issue, but does



6
not address it in sufficient detail nor does it suggest a procedure for these assets to be used in a manner
that sustains project objectives.
21.   Experimental buildings: The project did not originally plan to support new housing construction
since the cost per unit exceeded that of completion and strengthening by a large factor. However, rising
demand, incomes and market value, and an interest on the part of local authorities in restoring downtown
city centers led to consideration of new buildings on a pilot basis. To this end, the project constructed
two apartment buildings to pilot a) increased financial participaition of beneficiaries (Gumri), and b)
appropriate seismic isolation technology in new construction (Spitak). The buildings are located in
downtown areas where many households are perceived to be willing to pay substantially more than
required under the project's cost recovery formula for completed and strengthened buildings. In the first
structure, beneficiaries agreed to contribute over 50 percent of the construction cost. After construction
began, however, some of the participants in this scheme proved unable or unwilling to make the agreed
contributions (after having deposited an agreed amount in escrow to enable the start of construction.) In
order to complete the building on time and make it habitable using only the agreed limited project funds,
the building was completed at two stories. The city can add additional floors when the climate is better
for increased beneficiary financial participation. This experiment might have succeeded with better
planning--including selection of participants--and timely TA inputs. The second experimental building
was plagued by delays beyond the control of the contractor: delayed shipment of laminated rubber base
isolation bearings, and severe late winter weather. Construction was completed very close to the Credit
Closing date and the status of beneficiary participation could not be assessed for this report.
22.   Housing Component Policy Issues. The housing completion component followed simple criteria
for the selection of buildings to be completed: maximum degree of work in place and designation by
local authorities. The aim was to maximize the number of habitable units provided given the limited
fiunds available while putting to use the enormous sunk costs represented by nearly finished structures,
and to meet perceived local demand (local officials were elected were felt to be responsive to citizens'
needs). This approach is defensible in an emergency project but would not be acceptable in a housing
investment initiative under normal circumstances, where the economics of spatial organization would
govern. Many of the project's completed buildings, (and virtually all of those in the strengthening
component) are located in or adjacent to established downtown areas (Spitak, which was virtually
flattened, lacks a traditional core). However, many of the project completion investments are in new
peri-urban developments, which are not located according to criteria that would be used in a market
system. To be sure, new centers are developing in these areas, but housing there has lower market values
than that located closer to the traditional centers. Related to the question of location is the fact that
housing beneficiaries have often been slow to occupy new apartmients. Most EQZ emergency
(temporary) housing areas were located in downtown parks. However, as noted elsewhere in this report,
there are more likely disincentives for slow occupancy. Disincentives to move quickly include on-going
NGO programs that provide free fuel and food to families still in "domiks", coordinating timing with the
school year, husbands working overseas, the obligation of the new owner to finish the interiors of the
project apartments (through self-help), and established subsistence gardens in domik areas. Some are
thought to cling to downtown domiks in the hope of extracting a payment for leaving. While not a
criterion in the EQRP, market value is the primary criterion in the housing component of the proposed
Municipal Development project, that will aim to shift housing interventions away from emergency-
assistance to focus on sector reform.
23.   See Table 1 below for comparison of SAR, Mid Term Review (MTR), and final projected
housing outputs. The increase in outputs in both the completion and strengthening activities is due to
efficient PIU procurement performance and was made possible by shifting project resources from the



7
Unallocated and Technical Assistance categories, and the mobilizing of project savings and contractor
penalties to this end.
TABLE 1: SUMMARY COMPARISON OF SAR, MTR AND FINAL
HousING COMPONENT OUTPUTS.
HOUSING     INCREASE       TOTAL $     INCREASE
UNITS      OVER SAR       (MILL)*     OVER SAR
(UNrrS)                   (COST)
SAR        2069           0%          8.58           0%
MTR        2375          15%          11.71         36%
Actual     2857          38%          16.01         86%
Municipal Services Subcomponent
24.   The Municipal Services Component comprises Bathhouses, Infrastructure, and Community
Facilities. $6.5 million was spent on Municipal Services, which is twice the amount projected, and
includes water piping to main cities and deprived communities. Schools, clinics and other structures--
new, strengthened or completed--are among the community facilities provided.
25.   Bathhouses: The emphasis on the Bathhouse activity was shifted during implementation from
"mobile" units to the rehabilitation of downtown central facilities that existed before the earthquake and
were out of operation because of damage. As a result, bathhouse production was decreased in number
from 54 to 1 1, of which 2 were restorations of old downtown facilities. These restorations have proven
to be very popular. The mobile bathhouses are in fact not strictly "mobile" in the sense that they can be
quickly towed or shifted as immediate needs change. They are steel structures that are demountable and
can be moved and adapted to other uses when needs change over the longer term. This was not what was
originally envisioned (at Appraisal), when it was felt that a quickly changing emergency environment
would call for easy flexibility. In fact, the residential patterns--albeit "temporary" had already stabilized
to the extent that such flexibility was not seen as critical. In addition to being demountable steel
structures, they are technically advanced as they use base-isolation for seismic resistance, permitting
heavy water tanks to be mounted in their attics. Of the 54 bathhouses originally envisioned at Appraisal,
six were to experiment with solar heating. However, during implementation, it was found that this was
not feasible at the time, and not pursued. Operation of project-financed public bath houses on the basis
of private concessions with full cost recovery, as foreseen in the SAR and agreed during negotiations--
was embryonic as of Closing. Municipalities needed guidance in defining appropriate concession
arrangements that would ensure their financial protection and the sustainable operation of the
bathhouses. Technical assistance was provided to the municipalities for this purpose towards the end of
project implementation by the CBRD.
26.   Infrastructure and Community Facilities: These investments were largely selected during
supervision by local authorities and represent felt needs, thus providing a fairly broad range of
investments. After mid-term-review, it was agreed that communities could propose priority projects
costing up to an agreed limit. All investments are operating successfully and appear to have had an
impact on community health and morale. More than 40 km of water piping was either newly installed or
repaired, connections to completed housing was installed, one library, community cultural center
(historic building), and stadium seating were put back into service; two hospitals, a municipal building
and telephone exchange were rehabilitated, and five schools, one kindergarten, and school sports hall
were restored or completed.



8
Factory Shells Subcomponent
27.   Of the ten factories assisted under this subcomponent, one (Spitak Clothing) was as of the ICR
Mission, employing abut 600 workers--with a total of about 1200 expected to be employed the following
year--and a few others were about to start production in the new facilities completed under the project.
Cost recovery will begin after a three year grace period. TA has been provided by AUA Center for
Business Research and Development (CBRD) to Gumri Electrocondensor to draft a Business Plan and
help to rationalize production and marketing. The CBRD reviewed several of the enterprises and
concluded that the Electrocondensor plant was likely to adapt first to the new market demands. The
Factory Shells activity was successful in terms of implementation, despite numerous "teething problems"
encountered by contractors. Success will ultimately depend on many factors beyond the control of the
enterprise managers, along with the managers' ability to adapt to new challenges. Government's interest
in factory rehabilitation led to influence over the selection process in one particular case, over the more
negative recommendations of independent consultants. Success in the operational phase will probably
require additional business management assistance. This could be provided at relatively low cost
through local consultants such as CBRD.
Problematic Activities
28.   Of the civil works activities, three might be judged in relrospect to have been somewhat
premature or less suitable. The Factory Shells completion and single Family Housing were both well-
intentioned and both will in the long run have a degree of impact. In the future, none of the investments
in these activities is lost, on the contrary, they did in fact bring about the creation of useful assets.
29.   Factory shells: The selection of suitable factory enterpr:ises for reconstruction could not be very
robust when the entities would be obliged to shift radically their way of operating to survive under
market conditions. Only two factories appeared at Credit Closing to be likely to survive without some
continuing state assistance in the near future, and even they are not fully viable. However, this is
arguably the case for most industrial enterprises in Armenia. All factories are required to repay
Government in full the sums invested in their structures, including interest, after a grace period. If they
are unable to do so, the subloans will in effect amount to a subsidy of nearly $7 million to these
enterprises in the EQZ. A problem is the difficulty of finding new markets. The lifting of the present
blockade is expected to improve the business environment. In the longer term, the repaired factories are
likely to serve in some capacity, but external factors will have to improve. Long term monitoring of this
activity would be of interest to the Bank.
30.    Single Family Housing: The project designers made a wcrthy and useful attempt to introduce a
degree of self-reliance and typology diversity in the single family housing pilot scheme. Although
construction was completed, good results cannot yet be reported with regard to social and economic
factors. External implementation problems conspired to delay completion of this component, and the
activity could not be substantially altered at Mid-Term Review because problems were not yet
identifiable. Construction delays resulted from contractor difficulties early in implementation, delaying
the completion of the units until very close to Credit Closing. Thus, supervision and monitoring--and
possible correction--of allocation and recovery issues could not be addressed. Public education and a
marketing plan could have ensured a more effective allocation of the units. The core units--requiring
self-help completion-- have attracted little interest. This could change in future, if a marketing plan is
developed and financial assistance in the form of affordable credit is provided. The notion of self-help
on the part of citizens in the EQZ was not well-developed during project implementation--a legacy of
past housing policies, and still promoted by government promises' to earthquake victims.



9
31.   Mobile bath houses: The mobile bath house activity was determined at appraisal to fill a clear
need for families deprived by lack of water and sanitary infrastructure. The tradition of public baths was
felt to allow for neighborhood units that could be shifted to meet the changing needs of temporary
settlements. The idea of such units--some with solar heating--was progressive and might have succeeded
a) if conceptual design and design development had been more closely supervised and resulted in
appropriate industrial designs, and b) if they had been put in place quickly, before local authorities
shifted attention to existing central bath houses that had important civic and cultural value, and were
already accepted by the citizens. Instead, the local technical capacity--in both design and construction--
was not sufficiently monitored and supervised to produce appropriately designed mobile units quickly.
The delays caused this component to be reduced in scope as attention turned to rehabilitating permanent
structures. Ultimately, it can be argued that the latter approach was more appropriate. However, if
neighborhood units were proven to be in demand, it might have been cost effective and timely to build
compact conventional low-cost masonry structures that are removable when no longer needed, in lieu of
pursuing the development of "innovative" industrialized designs.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
32.   The project was the first Bank effort to finance physical work in Armenia and there were
entrenched obstacles in place after years of neglect. This was, however, tempered by Armenia's
readiness to get something done, construction firms eager to work, and the people's resilience. Other
positive factors included high technical ability and integrity of Central Government and PIU staff and
flexibility of most construction firms faced with having to learn a new, apparently less secure system.
Equally important was Government's support of an environment devoid of political and commercial
pressures, and an effective working relationship between PIU and the Ministry of Economy. The PIU's
professional and commercial independence was one of the major factors underlying successful
implementation of the project.
33.   Delays: Project implementation was delayed nine months due to external political factors. Two
extensions of the Closing Date totaling 12 months were required by the increased civil works program
made possible by the allocation of additional funds to physical components.
34.   During four years of project implementation, Bank divisional responsibility changed once and
Bank Task Managers changed four times. The GOA responsible Minster changed three times. In spite
of these transitions, implementation was carried out successfully. Effective, communications were
maintained at all times between the Bank and Government, as the PIU management remained unchanged
until just after closing. The Bank's management handovers were effective, and Government's transitions
were assisted by stable PIU management.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
35.   The project substantially achieved its intended implementation objectives. The potential for
sustainability is favorable. However, several individual activities supported by the project will require
effective operational planning to function on a sustainable basis. Some weaknesses are appearing in
operational aspects of the project, as investments are put into use. These include operation of housing
units after construction (slow occupancy, unclear management responsibilities, allocation conflicts,
uneven cost recovery experience) and inadequate public information about the project. Slow occupancy
was due to existing disincentives to move, such as NGO programs that provide free fuel and food to
domik-dwellings, the need for beneficiaries to complete interior finishing of apartments, head of
households working in Russia, as well as seasonal factors such as school year and vegetable gardens.
Uneven cost recovery experience is due to the lack of a unified approach among cities, including
monitoring. Some weaknesses are due to design, e.g. the expectation that local authorities will be able to



10
follow through with agreed or recommended operational procedures and that TA could remedy
weaknesses in this area. Others are due to inadequate follow-up with TA inputs (e.g. condominium
organization) and coordinating difficulties between the Bank project and parallel activities of the All-
Armenia Fund, the second primary donor in the housing field (although with a contributidn significantly
less than the Bank).
36.   Operation of project-financed public bath houses on the basis of private concessions with full
cost recovery is not yet fully realized because municipalities needed guidance to define appropriate
concession arrangements that would ensure their financial protection. Technical assistance was provided
to municipalities near the end of the project and it is too early to judge if they will operate as foreseen in
the long term. The concession operations will probably require continuing advisory help to ensure that
municipalities are wholly removed from subsidy responsibilities. Such help is readily--and
inexpensively-- available locally.
37.   Within the housing component, sustainability will require continuing support and monitoring of
condominium associations, cost recovery and marketing and extension of core-houses. Follow-up
programs are needed here. National seismic entities will need to monitor the seismometric stations
installed in seismically isolated buildings and buildings with vibration dampers to study their
performance in strong earthquakes. These activities should not require external financial assistance.
38. The factory enterprises rehabilitated or completed under the project will require continuing
management guidance if they are to repay the subloans that funded their civil works. This should be
part of a wider-ranging industrial development plan for the EQZ, as recommended in the project-funded
Regional Economic and Infrastructure Studies.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
39.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory, particularly during identification, preparation and
early supervision, when political and economic circumstances were problematic and unpredictable, with
a borrower undergoing transition and a demoralized population.
40.   Identification was timely and appropriate. Preparation and Appraisal was undertaken under
very difficult conditions due to considerable time pressure and a severe winter, but managed to produce
effective results. Teams were appropriately constituted given the technical, institutional, and social
demands. The team's focus on establishing an effective PIU and providing training for the new
procurement methods provided an essential foundation for project implementation. PHRD grant funds
were effectively targeted. Coordination with other donors, mainly USAID and the US Peace Corps, to
effect implementation and synergy with existing programs was effective. One aspect that might have
been better judged is local (municipal) governance, ownership, and operations capacity, but this might
not have been possible under the circumstances prevailing at the time.
41.   Supervision is overall judged to be satisfactory. Changes in Bank management due to change of
division and four consecutive Task Managers were handled smoolhly. Mid-Term Review revisions were
responsive and appropriate. Major shifts in budget allocations to increase civil works investrnents placed
a burden on Bank supervision staff. This was well-managed, but possibly at the expense of attention to
Technical Assistance components. The smooth transition to local competitive procurement was made
possible by consistent and knowledgeable support provided to the PIU on a regular basis. While time-
consuming, this support was necessary and effective in establishing a solid knowledge base in the PIU
and among contractors. In retrospect, it can be argued that the supervision team could have placed more
emphasis on technical assistance activities needed to solidify the sustainability of project development



11
gains, especially more timely attention to helping the borrower develop a more rigorous and detailed
operational plan.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
42.   Borrower performance was satisfactory. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was called upon
to introduce fully competitive procurement to firms that were still largely state-owned, and which
functioned under the former Soviet business culture, and did so with success. Accuracy and timeliness in
satisfying Bank requirements was consistently excellent. Management and audit reviews are positive;
and technical operations ensured cost-effective and technically acceptable construction. A key attribute
of the PIU, that contributed importantly to implementation success, was its professional soundness and
political/commercial independence. This was supported by the PIU's parent Ministry. Another
important attribute was the PIU's cooperation in keeping lines of communication open and encouraging
regular dialogue between the Bank's supervision team and all levels of the PIU staff. Accuracy and
timeliness in satisfying Bank requirements was consistent despite the lack of previous lending
experience. Audits were never late, and implementation agreements were virtually always delivered as
agreed.
G. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECr OUTCOME
43.   The project achieved its major objectives and project outcome is judged to be satisfactory. The
long-term impact of the Factory Shells component cannot yet be evaluated. The project helped to
refocus government and international attention on EQZ rehabilitation and introduced first steps to
redirect housing policies, and restructure the construction industry. Employment was generated as 97
percent of the Credit was spent locally. An Economic Rate of Return cannot be calculated for most
components of this project.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
44.   The borrower has drafted an Operational Plan (attachment to Borrower's Contribution, Appendix
B). The Plan is a comprehensive outline of the areas requiring attention, and needs to be further
developed by the different agencies responsible for the various areas. The Plan represents a blueprint
that requires elaboration.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
45.   Lessons might be drawn for this project in the areas outlined below. Some are obvious but are
repeated here because project experience supports them with certainty.
Design:
*  PIU independence is essential, as is the rigorous selection of its staff, particularly in
positions of leadership;
* Local governance, ownership, and operations capacity should be carefully assessed and if
found wanting, mitigating design is required;
*  Coordination of donor activities can be difficult, particularly with independent NGO's with
strong international support, but is essential and requires attention to forestall conflict
during implementation;
* Potential operational pitfalls deserve realistic attention during design and appraisal;
* Project design allowing for flexibility at Mid-Term Review.



12
Implementation:
* Operational aspects deserve more attention during Supervision (Operational Plan should
have been started earlier, under stricter supervision from the Bank)
* Close technical communications between the Bank: and borrower pay big dividends: both
sides are able to adapt comfortably and effectively to a changing project environment.
Operations:
* Future, post-implementation monitoring and technical assistance needs to be provided for; a
way to follow up activities after project closing that would assist in sustainability, without
being tied to appraisal and funding of another project. Possible role for an Adaptable
Lending activity.
46.   The project was a first quick response to an emergency situation that did not allow yet to address
major sectoral adjustment issues. The focus was hence on increasing the supply of housing and
rebuilding infrastructure in an area that had been devastated several years earlier. The emphasis was
therefore on achieving physical target. The independence of the PIU from political and commercial
pressures was of key importance, and was made possible by enlightened borrower attitudes and Bank
support. Efforts by the Bank preparation and early supervision teams to prepare and assist the
competitive procurement process were clearly very effective an(d critical to success of the project.
47.   The project was building upon an existing body of experience and work that had been started in
the suspended Soviet assistance program. The Bank's project used the allocation system and engineering
work already developed under the Soviet program and added certain critical elements such as
competitive procurement, cost recovery (albeit token), business/housing privatization, condominium
formation, and business development assistance for bathhouses tnd factories. While the housing
allocation system was not market-based, it was an accepted response in an emergency environment.
48.   More difficult to predict during preparation were potential operational obstacles inherent in
administering a project with the geographic breadth of the EQRP under embryonic local governance, and
without consistent local operations capacity. Operational aspects were perhaps not sufficiently pre-
defined in some areas, and unrealistic in others, but considering that some new socio-economic concepts
and operational procedures were just being introduced, the record is good. Finally, the Borrower's desire
to focus intensively on civil works production might have been more tempered by Bank supervision
teams during implementation, with a more critical eye on operational aspects requiring better preparation
and support. A well-running civil works program has a tendency to justify itself and attract increased
emphasis. In this case, the borrower's strong desire to concentrate on construction appears to have
distracted attention from institution-building through technical assistance. The positive effect of such an
emphasis is difficult to measure, but would include increased employment in the construction industry,
noticeable improvement in construction industry capacity, and improved living conditions and municipal
services. The negative effect of the heavy civil works focus began to appear at the end of project
implementation - in the form of weaker operational quality in sorne areas than might have been
expected, with uncertain effect on the sustainability of some components. Nevertheless, the project's
development objectives are not likely to have been compromised. While an earthquake reconstruction
project is primarily about re-building a devastated environment, later Bank supervision might have been
more rigorous in promoting technical assistance in the face of borrower wishes to de-emphasize it in
favor of building.
49.   Sustainability in future operations could be better ensured in a reconstruction project if a degree
of follow-on activity could be built into the operations phase for several years after implementation



13
completion. The EQRP would benefit from such an activity, which might be financed through trust
funds and managed by the Resident Mission with Country Department and Sector support.



14
PART II. STATITICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Original, Revised and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Supervision Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. AchievementgfObiectives      Substantial     Partial       Negligiblk     Notapplicable
Macro Policies                   O             O              O               E3
Sector Policies                 O              O              0               E3
Financial Objectives             0             0              [E               o
Institutional Development        O             E3             0                O
Physical Objectives             El             O              0                0
Poverty Reduction                0             0              0               El
Gender Issues                    O             O              0               03
Other Social Objectives          0             O              O               0M
Environmental Objectives         O             O              O               0
Public Sector Management         O             [03            0                0
Private Sector Development       E             03             0                0
Other (specify)                  E             E              E                a
B. PrQject Sustainabilitv        likelv                 Unlikely               Uncertain
El)                    El)                    0/)



15
HWI
C. Bank Perfornance              satis                  SatisfaQty               Defichrt
(1)                    (1)                     (V)
Identification                   0                      E3                       0
Preparation Assistance           0                      0                        0
Appraisal                        0                      03                       0
Supervision                      0                      E                       0
D. Boffower Performance          satisfactoZ            Satisfactorv             Deficien
(/)                    (/)                    (v')
Preparation                      0                      E3                      0
Implementation                   El                     0                       0
Covenant Compliance              0                      El                      0
Operation (if applicable)        0                      El                      0
Highly                                        Highl
E. Assessment of Outcome        satisfa t      Sry    Satisfactorv    UnsatisfadtQry   unsatisfactory
(if)          (if)            (if)            (0)
0             0               0                0



16
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/credit title       Purpose            Year cf approval         Status
Preceding operations
None
Following operations
1. Power Maintenance   Strengthen electricity      1994          Closing July 31, 1998
(Credit No. 26660)   load management and
reverse deterioration of
three thermal
generation units/three
hydro power generation
plants
2. Irrigation        Maintain level of             1994          Closing June 30, 1999
Rehabilitation       irrigated agricultural
(Credi No. 6670) production and improve
(Credit No. 26670)   the country's water
resource management.
3. Highway           Develop an institutional      1995          Closing Dec. 31, 1999
(Credit No. 27760)   framework adapted to
(Credi No. 7760) the requirements of the
road sector of a market
economy.
4. Social Investment  Support most                 1995          Closing June 30, 2000
Fund                 vulnerable groups
(Credit No. 27840)   through improvement
(Credit N. 27840) of basic social services
and creation of
employment
opportunities.
5. Municipal         Provide resources for         TBED                  TBD
Development          rehabilitation of priority
(Credit No. Q0500)   water supply networks
and support for policy
formulation in the water
supply and housing
sectors.



17
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned         Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                         December 1992
Preparation
Appraisal                                                          April 1993
Negotiations                                                       July 1993
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                       N/A
Board Presentation                                                 February 1994
Signing                                                            February 1994
Effectiveness                                                      April 1994
Midterm review (if applicable)                                     ---
Project Completion                                                 June30, 1997
Credit Closing                                                     June 30, 1997
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: ORIGINAL, REVISED AND ACTUAL
(US$ MILLION)
FY        Original     Revised          Actual
1994        5.10         2.11            2.11
1995        8.27         6.20            6.20
1996        6.75         8.13            8.11
1997        0.00         3.68            3.66
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated                 Actual (as of April '97)
L Key implementation indicators in SAR
1. Civil Works
=> Housing                     > Provision of 2069 units      => 2857 units provided.
=> Bathhouses                 => Provision of up to 54 units  => 2857 units provided.
=> Factories                  => Repair of 7 units            => 10 factories repaired
=> Infrastructure             => Approx. 27 km water piping   => 41 km water piping provided
=  Community Facilities       => Undefined quantity valued at    =  Numerous structures built or
$600,000                       repaired, valued at $2.9 million
2. Institutional Development  Housing Policy Action Plan      Completed



18
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
NOTAVAILABLE
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study                             Purpose as defined at      Status  Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. Regional Economic Study   Assess the comparative advantage cif  Done
the EQZ regarding economic
activities and recommend
infrastructure repair and development
needs.
2. Regional Infrastructure  Identify to what extent existing  9/95    Shaped long range
Study                      infrastructure deficiencies negatively   investment planning for the
affect economic development in            EQZ.
EQZ.
3. EQ Risk Management      Recommend rationalizing current   10/95
Strategy                   Seismic institutional framework to
clarify the division of labor between
two active government entities with
overlapping responsibilities.
4. Armenia Housing Sector    Presents sector issues to highlight  10/97   Provides overview of
and EQZ Housing Issues     main reconstruction issue, review         housing sector and will be
settlement pattern and examine           used as background material
household expectations and options.      for housing component for
Municipal Development
Project.



19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
Item                               Local  Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs                 costs    costs
1. Land sites and infrastructures   1.7       -       1.7          2.2                2.2
2. Construction: Sunk Costs
Housing                             5.9       -       5.9          15.5               15.5
Factory Shells                      9.7       -       9.7           6.8                6.8
3. Construction: Incremental Costs  5.7      13.2     18.9          4.8               4.8
4. Technical Assistance             0.2      2.1      2.3           0.4      0.7
5. Design, supervision,             0.1      0.5      0.6          0.5               0.05
administration
Sub-total: Base Costs              23.3    15.8       39.1        30.2      0.7    29.35
7. Physical contingencies2          1.0      2.2      3.2
8. Price contingencies (15%)        1.0      2.7      3.7
Sub-total contingencies             2.0      4.9      6.9
Total                              25.3    20.7       46.0         30.2      0.7    29.35
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                  (US$ million)
Item                               Local  Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs                 costs    costs
1. State Authorities (land,        17.3       -       17.3           NOT AVAILABLE
infrastructure, sunk costs)
2. (5% of incremental local costs)  0.3       -       0.3
3. IDA (incremental costs)          7.7     20.3      28.0
4. Donor assistance                  -       0.4      0.4
Sub-total (excluding sunk costs)    8.7     20.7      28.7
Total                              25.3    20.7       46.0
2 Physical contingencies are 10% on technical assistance and 15% on all other activities.



20
Table 9: ECONOMIC COSTS ANMD BENEFITS
- No ERR was calculated during Appraisal (check SAR)
- Revenue generating scheme: Bathhouses and Factories: too early to be measurable



21
Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Annenia
Earthquake Reconstruction Project (EQRP)
Agreement   Section   Covenant Type   Present    Original    Revised      Description of Covenant   Comments
Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Status     Date        Date
Article IV      4.01   Financial          C     quarterly       ---      Maintain records and accounts
with sound accounting
practices for operations,
resources and expenditures.
Article IV      4.01   Financial          C     annually         ---     Furnish independent audit of
accounting
Schedule 4       1    Management          C     on-going        ---      Maintain PIU
Schedule 4       2    Management          C     on-going         ---     Execute Mid-Term Review
agreements.
Schedule 4       3     Sectoral           C     06/15/94         ---     Submit Housing Policy Action
Plan
Schedule 4       4    Financial           C     on-going         ---     Cost recovery from housing
and factories as agreed.
Schedule 4       5    Implementation      C     on-going        ---     Allocation of housing units as
agreed
Schedule 4       6    Financial           C     06/30/95         ---     Submit plan for bathhouse
operations
Schedule 4       7    Implementation      C     06/30/95        ---.    Provide priority access to
electricity, for factories
Covenant types:                                                                   Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                         8. = Indigenous people               C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after
beneficiaries                              10. = Project implementation not covered  delay
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds      by categories 1-9                 CP = complied with partially
4. = Counterpart funding                     11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary  NC = not complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                     12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                    regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                 13. = Other



22
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with applicable Operational Directives or Operational Procedures.



23
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Total in US$ 000
Staff Week           Salary              Total
LENP -- PRE-APPRAISAL                            68.2              141.2               209.4
LENA APPRAISAL                                   21.5                57.4               78.9
LENN NEGOTIATIONS                                 18.1               41.9               60.0
SUBTOTALS                                       107.8              240.5              348.3
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
SUPERVISION                                      77.4              217.8               295.2
-----------------------------------------------------
TOTAL PROJECTED COSTS                           185.2              458.3               643.5
Table 13: BANK RESOURCES: SUPERVISION MISSIONS
Performance Rating        Types of
Stage of Project     Month/       No. of  Days in  Specialization'    Implem.         Develop.      pebls f3
Cycle             Year       Persons   Field                       status       objectives
Preparation           Feb. 1993        8        12    FA, UP, UP,
FA, UP, PMS,
EN, EN
Supervision 1         June 1994       15         6    HE, IS, EN,
UP, UP E
Supervision 2          July 1995      12         2    UP, UP
Supervision 3         Dec. 1996        7         1    UP
Supervision 4         April 1996       6         1    UP
ICR Mission           April 1997       18        2    UP, UE
Total                         74       56
FA      Financial Analyst                   EN      Engineer                   IS      Industrial Specialist
UP      Urban Planner                       E       Economist                  UE      Urban Economist
HRS    Housing Reform Specialist            HE      Highway Engineer



Appendix A
Republic of Armenia
Earthquake Reconstruction Project (EQRP)--Credit 2562-AM
Implementation Completion Mission, April, 1997
AIDE-MEMOIRF
1    A World Bank mission by Eric Peterson (Architect/Urban Planner, EC4MS), Task
Manager, and Deniz Baharoglu, Consultant, Urban Economist/Urban Planner, visited Armenia
from April 1 to 18-30, 1997, to a) carry out the final scheduled supervision mission for the
Earthquake Reconstruction Project, b) begin preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report, and c) start work on a housing sector issues paper for Earthquake Zone housing
strategy formulation. "Ms. Baharoglu's participation in the mission was funded by the
Norwegian Trust Fund, and focussed on the sector paper. As a part of Ms. Baharoglu's
activities, Mr. Sassoun Tsirounian (social survey consultant) assisted the mission in preparing
a sample survey of project beneficiaries.
2.    The mission met with EQRP Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staff in Yerevan; with
regional and local government officials, project beneficiaries, and an NGO working in the
Earthquake Zone (EQZ); as well as with central Governnent officials in Yerevan.
Commercial banks, real estate brokers, and contractors were also visited. The mission thanks
these officials for their cooperation and assistance, and the director and staff of the PIU for
their effective support and coordination of mission activities. Generous assistance on the
status of current housing sector legislation and policy issues was provided by the Yerevan
ICMA/USAID office. The findings of the mission are summarized herewith, and are subject
to confirmation by Bank management.
Mission Objectives
3.    Supervision. review project completion procedures with the PIU, assess progress on the
few remaining civil works and technical assistance (TA) contracts and assist the PIU and
contractors in working out feasible work plans for any problem contracts to ensure completion
prior to the Closing Date of June 30, 1997
4.    Implementation Completion Report (ICR): a) discuss the preliminary views of the
Bank, Government and implementing agencies on project implementation and operation; b)
assist Government in development of an operational plan for continuing project objectives; and
c) discuss with Government and implementing agencies their contribution to the ICR and reach
agreement with the PIU on a work plan for providing inputs.
5.    Housing sector Issues Paper: organize and start research for an informal note on
housing in the earthquake zone (EQZ), which will serve as an initiating document (ID) for the
proposed PPF-funded EQZ housing strategy study planned under the proposed Municipal
Development Project.



2
6.    The Issues Paper will highlight key earthquake zone shelter sector issues and identify
information gaps; document current settlement patterns, market development, citizens'
expectations and options, government subsidy and humanitarian aid patterns, and discuss
environmental impacts; and make preliminary government/donor strategy recommendations for
discussion with Government and for further development under the PPF study. A household
sample survey of project beneficiaries was launched during the mission, with the objective of
contributing information to both the ICR and the issues paper.
Project Completion Procedures
7.    All works under the project must be completed by the Closing Date of the Credit on
June 30, 1997. The final work plan agreed during the last mission (updated, Annex 1) is being
followed closely, although one sub-project (new experimental building) has been especially
affected by bad weather since December and delayed delivery of seismic isolation bearings.
The updated Cash Flow Projection (Annex 2) indicates smooth phasing out of PIU activities
under the EQRP.
Mission Findings
PROJECT SUPERVISION
Project implementation progress
8.    No unusual problems have been encountered since the December, 1996, mission, and
project implementation remains by-and-large highly satisfactory. All procurement under the
project has been completed. A total of 137 civil works contracts have been executed under the
project, along with associated site supervision contracts, and over 30 TA and equipment
contracts.
9.    The Credit amount of SDR 20.1 million is expected to be equivalent to $29.7 million
as of the Closing Date because of the strengthening of the dollar during the past year.
Contractor penalties (mostly for late performance) have added the equivalent of $600,000 to
project civil works outputs. Thus, the total value of project outputs has risen from the original
appraised amount of $28.0 million, to about $30.3 million. In the face of declining SDR/USD
value, the PIU has done its best to cut the final commitments as closely as possible to the
available dollar amount, and spend virtually all funds available to the project, but the dollar
has continued to strengthen, and projections are so close that a surge in the strength of the
dollar could result in a slight overspending, which would have to be covered by Government.
10.   The PIU reports that as of the end of March, 1997, $30,300,000 has been committed,
representing about 108% of the original credit amount of $28 million. For civil works
components alone, the increase is on the order of 56%, from $18.9 million (SAR) to 29.5
million (March, 1997). $28.5 million, or 94% of the total commitment has been disbursed by
the PIU to contractors, suppliers and consultants. As of end March, $29.4 million had been



3
disbursed from the Credit to the PIU, including $959,000 remaining in the Special Account,
with another $146,000 in Withdrawal Applications in the pipeline.
11.   Remaining project activities. Procurement for all scheduled project activities was
completed last year, and there is no margin of uncommitted funds remaining for even minor
additional work.
Review of the investment program
12.   Among the project's subcomponents, there are only two problems to be resolved prior
to Closing, both involving the project's two experimental apartment buildings. These were
started last year in a pilot to test a) increased financial participation of beneficiaries (Gumnri),
and b) seismic base isolation in new construction (Spitak). The buildings are located in
downtown areas where many households are believed to be willing to pay substantially more
than required under the project's cost recovery formula for completed and strengthened
buildings.
13.   In the first experimental structure, beneficiaries had agreed to contribute 40% of the
construction cost, but a higher than expected cost led to an upward revision of the
contribution. Some of the participants in this scheme have been unable or unwilling to make
the agreed contribution. The mission agrees with the PIIJ's proposal to finish the building at
two stories rather than the expected three, in order to complete it on time and make it
habitable using project funds only. The PIU will propose a transparent procedure for returning
participants' deposits as required. It is understood that thie city can add additional floors when
the climate is better for increased beneficiary financial participation.
14.   The second experimental building has been plagued by delays beyond the control of,The
contractor: delayed shipment of laminated rubber base isolation bearings from Malaysia, and-
severe late winter weather. The PIU will carefully monitor progress in the spring, and support
the contractor where possible, but total completion by June 30 is as yet not assured.
Operational issues
15.   Inquiries made for the ICR, and preliminary results from the household survey
revealed some operational issues that need to be addressed by PIU/Government, notably cost
recovery recording and transfer procedures, rules on selling apartments, occupancy rates, and
the status of beneficiaries' domiks. In addition the role of the All-Armenia Fund in the
Housing sector in the EQZ appears to continue to be in conflict with that of the Bank project.
These issues are discussed below under Implementation Completion Report.
Survey of housing beneficiaries
16.   To assess project impact on target beneficiaries and the role of local authorities in
providing the governance necessary to ensure sustainable benefits, and to collect information



4
for the housing issues paper, a sample social survey in the EQZ was begun during the mission
by Sassoun Tsirounian under Dr. Baharoglu's supervision and funded by the Norwegian Trust
Fund. Final results are expected in mid-May. Support and cooperation provided by local
authorities is appreciated. Testing of the questionnaire took place during the mission, and
preliminary results appear to confirm several operational problems (see Annex 4 for brief
summary).
HOUSING ISSUES PAPER
17.   The Issues Paper will be completed by end of June. Government review is planned for
late May--early June. As of the end of the mission, preliminary findings hold no great
surprises. Strong steps towards reform are underway, but the Armenian housing sector
remains constrained by an undeveloped financial sector. In the EQZ, the expectation of
continuing full Government provision of housing is particularly strong in some communities,
and is, along with weak effective demand/affordability (price:income ratio is quite high
compared to other FSU countries), a persistent impediment to local and personal initiative (see
Annex 5).
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ICR Preparation
18.   During the mission, a Government ICR Working Group was formed, headed by
Deputy Minister of Economy Kotolikian and EQRPIU Director Michael Mellcumian.
Preparation steps and Bank/Borrower responsibilities were explained, as outlined below and in
Annex 6.
19.   Borrower' contribtion to the Report. Goverrnent is responsible for preparing its own
final evaluation report on the project. This should be about ten pages. This evaluation
report/summary, which will be attached unedited to the ICR, should assess project objectives
and implementation, and evaluate both the borrower's own performance and that of the Bank
during the evolution and implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the
relationship between the Borrower and the Bank. These should be looked at with special
emphasis on "lessons learned" that may be relevant in the future.
20.   Operational Plan. The borrower needs to adopt a plan for the operational phase of the
project--the administration of the objects provided by the Credit after they are put into use,
and to define the performance indicators to be used to monitor operations and development
impact (see Annex 7 for discussion notes).
21.  ICR Schedule. A schedule was agreed with the ICR Working Group. The timing is
governed by PIU and Government time constraints caused by other obligations. The schedule
is outlined below, but must be approved by Bank Management and is therefore provisional:



5
Jul. 25     Bank sends draft ICR to Government, without borrower's contribution;
Aug. 8      ROA sends preliminary comments on draft ICR to Bank;
Aug. 22     Government sends Borrower's contribution to the Bank, along with final
comments on Bank's ICR draft;
Sep. 5      'Gray cover" draft finalized at Bank.
Project Evaluation
22.   The Earthquake Reconstruction Project is the first Bank project to finance physical
works in Armenia. Project objectives include a) provision of improved housing and living
conditions to residents in the EQZ, b) the reconstruction of basic infrastructure supporting
employment creation, and c) development of a longer term sustainable program for
rehabilitation in the EQZ. Project outputs are discussed below.
23.   Expected project benefits include a) poverty alleviation in the EQZ through
employment creation, subsidized improved housing and other welfare infrastructure; b) policy
development in the housing sector and c) the promotion of institutional development of a
private construction sector through the introduction of competitive procurement and improved
construction supervision. Factory shell completion is expected to lead to the creation of 2,500
jobs and increase exports.
24.   Project Ratings. Supervision reports have generally rated the implementation of the
project as highly successful; achievement of development objectives have also been highly
rated. The mission supports these ratings, with the caveat that some operational deficiencies
are developing and these must be addressed quickly. In addition, while the project, has
eliminated one obstacle to the success of the enterprises selected for the factory shells
component by providing the structures necessary for them to resume production, it is too soon
to judge whether they will ultimately succeed since so much will depend on the mitigation of
external political and macro-economic constraints. Finally, the housing component should be
helping to shift popular attitudes in the EQZ away from the expectations of Government
provision and to greater self-reliance. However, there is little evidence at this time that such a
shift is taking place.
Implementation
25.   Implementation has been consistently efficient and effective. The PIU was called upon
to introduce fully competitive procurement to firms that were still largely state-owned, and
which functioned in a strongly ingrained culture of vertically organized, centrally administered
production. This has succeeded admirably. Accuracy and timeliness in satisfying Bank
requirements has been consistently excellent. Production of housing and other facilities under



6
the project has largely exceeded project design targets except in some cases where
experimental approaches were undertaken and reduced at mid-term-review because of
problems that were not foreseen during project preparation. The proposed Technical
Assistance budget was reduced during implementation as local capacity proved strong, other
donors contributed, and Government preferred to focus on civil works investments.
Operations
26.   Some weaknesses are showing up in operational aspects of the project, as investments
are put into use. These include operation of housing units after construction (slow occupancy,
unclear management responsibilities, allocation conflicts, and uneven cost recovery
experience, and inadequate public information about the project.) Some of these are due to
inadequate design, such as the expectation that local authorities will be able to follow through
with agreed or recommended operational procedures. Others are due to inadequate follow-up
of TA inputs (e.g. condominium organization) and to lack of coordination between the Bank
project and the parallel activities of the All-Armenia Fund.
27.   Operation of project-financed public bath houses on the basis of private concessions
with full cost recovery is not yet fully realized because municipalities needed guidance in
defining appropriate concession arrangements that would ensure their financial protection.
Technical assistance has recently been provided to the municipalities to correct this, but it is
too early to tell whether they will operate as foreseen.
28.   The Housing Policy Action Plan submitted at mid term review as agreed during
negotiations has been overtaken by a flurry of reform-minded legislation relating to the
housing sector. It is not clear whether the Project has contributed to the shaping of this
legislation or policy development, but the framework for sound policy formulation is
developing well.
Civil Works Project, Outputs
29.   Civil Works comprise 98% of project expenditures. Of the three major civil works
components, Housing and Municipal Services each disbursed about double the SAR-projected
amounts, with higher (although not proportionally so) unit outputs. Factory Completion
disbursed the projected amount, but produced three more units than the projected seven. See
Annex 8 for Implementation Summary by subcomponent and city, comparing outputs
projected in the SAR and Mid Term Review with the final outputs.
30.   Housing Subcomponent
Housing Comnpletion: The completion of residential structures started immediately after
the 1988 Earthquake and suspended upon the break-up of the Soviet Union is the centerpiece
of the housing subcomponent. Unit costs rose during implementation as degrees of completion
of candidate buildings fell. Housing Strengthening: Structures damaged and weakened by the



7
EQ that could be made habitable through structural reinforcing is the second housing activity.
This subcomponent has established new technologies for the strengthening of existing
structures, notably new techniques for installing seismic isolation systems in new and existing
occupied buildings. The project is the world-wide pioneer for several techniques, and project
structures have attracted international professional attention. Single Family Housing: Under
the third housing activity, a limited experimental program of houses on single plots, in various
stages of construction from foundations and core houses, to complete two-story units were
built for subsidized sale. Because of contractor delays, these have only recently been
completed, and few are occupied. A preliminary assessment of local officials is that the
absence of credit will be very difficult for EQZ citizens to build out the empty foundations.
The Operational Plan to be drafted by Government for the ICR should address this issue and
suggest a procedure for putting these assets to use, that supports project objectives.
31.   See Table 1 below for comparison of SAR, Mid Term, and final projected housing
outputs. The increase in outputs in both the completion and strengthening activities is due to
good PIU procurement performance and was made possible by shifting project resources from
the Unallocated and Technical Assistance categories, and the mobilizing of project savings and
contractor penalties to this end.
Table 1:      Summary Comparison of SAR and MTR Housing component budgets, widh final program
expenditures.
Housing       Increase       Total S      Increase
Units     over SAR         (mill)*     over SAR
SAR              2069           0%               8.58        0%
MTR              2375           15%             11.71       36%
Actual           2857          38%              16.01       86%
*) Proportionally higher costs are attributable to lower completion levels of buildings available for
completion component, increase in the costlier 'strengthening' component, and rising construction costs.
Municipal Services Component
32.   Municipal services comprise Bathhouses, Infrastructure, and Community Facilities.
$6.5 million was spent on Municipal Services, which is twvice the amount projected, and
includes over 40km of water piping to deprived communities. Five schools, two clinics and
other structures--new, strengthened or completed--are among the community facilities
provided.
33.   The emphasis of Bathhouse activity was shifted during implementation from mobile
bathhouses to the rehabilitation of downtown central facilities. These have proven to be very
popular. The mobile bathhouses are in fact demountable steel structures that can be moved
and adapted to other uses when needed.



8
Factory Shells Component
34.   Of the ten factories assisted under this component, one (Spitak Clothing) is currently
employing abut 600 workers. A few others are about to start production. Cost recovery will
begin after a three year grace period. TA has been provided by AUA Center for Business
Research and Development to Gumri Electrocondensor to draft a Business Plan and help
rationalize production and marketing.
Lessons Learned
35.   It is premature to attempt a comprehensive list of lessons learned at this time, but the
following seem evident:
a.    PIU Independence: the project was fortunate to exist in a borrower framework
which was able to guard the independence of the PIU from undue political and
commercial pressures.
b.    Local governance and operations: it is difficult to administer a project with the
geographic breadth of the EQRP without strong and consistent local operations
capacity.
c.    Coordination of donor activities: this is essential where diverging project
policies/concepts risk undermining project objectives and where a large number of
beneficiaries are involved; complementarity and synergy should be sought where
resources are scarce.
Annexes
1.    Final Work Plan
2.    PIU Projected Cash Flow for December, 1996 to June, 1997
3.    Summary of Project Costs and Disbursements by Category
4.    Preliminary Findings of Survey Test
5.    Summary of Preliminary Issues Paper Key Findings
6.    Borrower's Responsibility in ICR Preparation
7.    Operational Plan (description)
8.   Implementation Summary (Civil Works)



LIST OF PEOPLE CONTACTED
YEREVAN
Government
Kotolikiyon, Samwel       Deputv Minister, The .Ministry of Economy.
Kirakosian, V. Shiraz     Deputv Minister, The Ministrv of Economy
Andreassyan, Andranik     First Deputy Minister, The Ministry of Urban
Development.
Balanian, Armen           Head of Capital Construction Department, The
Ministry of Economy.
Khactarian, Vigen         Deputy Mayor of Yerevan.
Non-governmental organizations
Anlian, Steven            Resident Advisor, ICMA.
Demirkhenion, Ashot       Director, Ear:hquake Zone Acthtities, Hayastan,
All-Armenian Fund.
Engoian, Samvel           Member of the Executive Board, Hayastan, All-
Armenian Fund.
Hakopian, N. Ashot        Executive Officer, Armenian Real Estate
Association.
Poghossian, S. Gaeik      President, Armenian Real Estate Association.
Terk, Jakob               ICMALVUSAID Consultant.
Banks
Mfnatsakanian, S. Ashot   First Deputy Chairman of the Board, Armimpex,
Bank.
Sarkissian, M. Rouzanna    Assistant to the Chairman of the Board,
Arrnimpex Bank.
Driver, M. Keith          Head of Corporate Bankinz. Midland Armenia
jsc.
Hunt, A. J. Jeremy        Chief Executive Officer, Midland Arnmeniajsc.
Khachk}ian, G. Anushavan   Chairman of the Board, Lend Bank.
Sandonian, M. Rafael      Chairman of the Council, Lend Bank.
GUMRI
Mazmanian. Hunan          Urban Construction and Architecmral Sectors
Chief, Shirak Mars.
Vardanian, Micheal        The Mayor
Avetission, Sukias        Deputv Mayor, Gumri
SPITAK
Avetisian, Souren         The Mayor.
Mkhitarian, Hrair         Chief of Housing Fund, Municipality.
Vova, Gasparian           Construction and Architecture Department
Chief, Municipality.
VAiNADZOR
Hovivian Haik             Chief of Construction Department, Lory Mvfars.
Sargisian, Radik          Deputy Chief of Construction Department, Lory
Mars
Avalian, Ashot            Leading specialist building enaineers, Lory Mars.
Haroutunian, Andranik     The Mavor.
Hovtannisian, Armen       Deputy Mayor.
Voskanian, Rubik          Head of Housing Fund, Municipality.



Working plan up to the end of the Project                                                                                               As of 04101197
Contractor      Contract        Contract Description     Contract    Works    Compi.  Remaing    Start   Projected        REMAINING WORK
#   Narns       ID# YPrke    Completed    %                                           Works      Date    compl.   more than            teas than
date      50%     20% -5%    20%
[_                          .j...  _  . _.7 contracts I contracts 4 contracts
Phase I                  ._. _    -                                            -
1 Armwralsibstroy    3eG194      Electrocondenser Fact.Crnpl     995,650    836,5701  84.0%     159,0JC 07.11.941 04.30.97         . 11 59,080
21Spitak SIE        12aG/95-1    2 Mobil Baths/Gumri               51,2381   45,6081  89.0%        5,630 04.03.95  02 .30.97                       5,630
Total Phase- I____    ____________    1.046,9889    892,178   84.3%1   164,7101                         ______                      0   164,710
Phase 2
3 Prometey           3St/11961l   Cnst. of "Ardkap" factory       476,841    451,910   94.8%     24,931 0814.95  03.01.97           |         |   24,931
Artikstroy         lbPmiW9S-1  Hsng StrengtheninglPemzashen     194,888    160,546   82.4%     34342 12.01.95  05.25.97       . __               34,342
5 DP "Ani"           laGA11I96-3   Cnst.of Pobeda 42a house/Gumri  268,13    130,957   48.8%    137,177  9.05.96  05.30.97    137,177          ___
6 Kanaka             IbV/IW6-1   Housing strengtheningNanadzor    279,929    126,211   45.1%    153,718 0917.96  0415.97    153,718   __|
7 Spitak SIE         1aS/11/9l61a  Cnst.of house,Tan #1/Spitak    133,857    54,326   40.6%      79,531 09.18.96  05.30.97    79,531          1
8 Spitak SIE         1 1aS/96&1b  Cnst.of house,"Tan"#2lSpitak    133,857|   51,054   38.1%      82,803 09.18.96  05.30.97    82,803   __.         __ _
9 "Armvodstroy" PMK-22 IbGAlI/961   Hsng Strengthening/Gyumri     2412051    63,208   26.2%     177,997 11.18.96  06.01.97    177,997
10 Djavakhk           1 bGA1116-2   Hsng Strengthening/Gyumrl      109,907    33,992   30.9%      75.915 11;18.96  06.01.97    75 915 __       |
I1 AOZT -Spitak-l-   taS/11/-2   Hsng Completion/Spitak           266,403    121,456   45.6%     144,947 11.29.96  06.01.97    144,947         I
12 AOOT Kanaka"       1dVAIU97-1   UtilityNanadzor                 29,8I0   19,013   64.3%        10,567 03.14.97  04.14.97              10,567
Total Phr s-2 _                                         2,134,601  1,212,673   66.8%    921,929    -      _   ...   362,0981   10,667     69,273
TOTAL                      __                     3,181 489 2,094,851   65.8%  1          08- S38              852,088  105671  223 983
_.
x



Earthqtuake Zone Reconstnmction
Project Implementation Unit
Projected Cash Flow Alialysis
h     Credit Agreerent      Category 8al.   U        Contractor Name           Contract               .                            Total       Remain
Category          As of 03131197                                     Nutnber       AprS97      May'97      Jun'97
1 Equipmnent                       ($41)                                                                                                S0      ($41)
m F Si ~~~~~~~~~~~~_________~___                                                                               *.=='       _ _==_____=
2 Civil Works                $1,241,626  _  Total Phase 1 & 2                        .       $497,033    $379,269    S359,097    S1,235,399    56,227
a) Phiase 1    $333,617  _   .                ____.                                                     _|                          -
1 Armuralsibstroy              3eG/94     _      $62,300    $67,469      $61,000       $190,769
2 Sutpervision Contracts                            $592        $592        $372         $1,556
______________________-__                                     Total Phase 1T   __ __      562.892     $68,061     S61.372        $192,325   S141.292
b) Pliase 2    $908,009  __                                     .. .                                    . _       ._
3 Taron 606                    3DL/11/95-1        $15,413  _                            $15,413
4 Promeley                     3StIllV95-l        $32,622    S22,500     S15.0to        $70,122
_____________   S "Bazum-1'                     |bV/II/95-3         $1,750                                $1,750
6 "Baztum-1"                   lbV/I1/95-4         S4.288                                $4,288
____________________  _____________   7 Achurianstroy                   lbG/11/95-3          3,t000                     .         $3,000
______| ____ |_   8 Aiikstroy                    _bPtn/ll/95-1     $23,370    $15.300      $17,600       $56,270    _
9 "Sepasar lid                 laG/11/96-2        $5,262 _                               $5,262
10 DP Ani'                     laG/II/96-3        $24,416    $19,500      S20,915       $64,831
11 Kanaka                       lbV/II/96-1       $68,026    S48.500      $49,813      $166,339
12 Spitak SIE                  laS/II/96-la       $33,500    $27,971      $23,493       $84,964
_____________  13 Spilak SIE                     laS/1i/96-1b      $30,434    $30,857      $26,618       $87,908
____________________  _____________  14 !!a&shin                        1bG111196-1        $59,314    $60,672      $67,895      $187,881
_____________  15 Djavakhk                       lbG111/96-2       $30,170    $25,027      $24,1 17      $79,314
16 Spilakstroy-1                laSlll/96-2       $55,000    $54,715      $47,378      5157,093
17 Anailtpribor                 3G/11/96-1         S2,282                                $2,282
18 ERzrim DP                    laGIII/96-5          $526                                  $526
_____________________                   19 Kanaka                       ldV/i1197-1        $12,468                               $12,468
20 MIN Rubber Products                            $28,000                      -        $28,000
21 Supervision Contracts                           $4.300      $6,166      $4.897       $15,363
-        '   Total Phase 2               $434,141    5311,208   S297,725      51,043,074  (5135,066)
3 TA, Training&Studies          $56,049 -   __.
1 Earthquake Design Code                         $20000          $0                    $20,000
2 Design                      |                   $2,000                                $2,000
3 Pmnt for Films Production                         $800      $1,000                    $1800
_4 Bathhouse Manag./AUA                           $5,721                                $5,721
5 Business Plan for Capacitor Plant               $6,077      $6,077      58,103       $20,257
6 Auditing ___                                                            $9,600        $9,600
Total TA & Training               $34,598      $7.077     $17,703       $59,378    ($3,329)
4 Operating costs              ($28,860)                                                      $5,800     $5,100       14,610       $16,600   ($45,360)
5 Unallocated                        S                                                                                                S0       S
_ I v *.l ern sss  = -- . ttimv   T| Liq1 RAS I  3R1I.no '  S111277   7 547



Earthquake Zone Reconstruction
Project Implementation Unit
Summary of Project Costs and Disbursements by Category as of March 31, 1997 (US Dollars)
#   Credit Agreement  1     Contract         Penalties          Cost to           Disbursed          Rernainder
Category                  Price                             Project          as of 03/31197
I Equipment               --             235,633.00           0.00          235,633.00          235,633.00             0.00
_2__.  .  .  !. Civil Works             29,551,882.00     589,610.00       28,962,272.00       27,772,625.00      1,189,647.00
Phase 1        6,737,981.00      155,474.00       6.582,507.00        6,389.717.00        192,790.00
Phase 2       22813,901.00      434,136.00       22379,765.00        21,382,908.00        996,857.00
3 TA, Training&Studles                   262,026.00           0.00          262,026.00          202,648.00         59,378;00
4 Operating costs                        255,151.00           0.00          255,151.00          238,651.00         16,500.00
5 Unallocated                                 0.00            0.00               0.00                0.00              0.00
Totall      30,304,692.001    589,610.001      29,715,082.00       28,449,557.00      1,265,525.00



Annex 4
RESULTS OF THE PILOT SURVEY
The results of a pilot survey comprising 15 interviewees, chosen randomly among the
beneficiaries of the earthquake zone housine program financed by the World Bank,
exposed various administrative problems as follows:
Mismatches between the World Bank and government programs: Units were
assigned to beneficiaries before. the Earthquake Reconstruction Project was started.
Some beneficiaries are unhappy about having to pay for what they expected would
be free.
Laock of infornation flow to the beneficiaries: Beneficiaries are not given clear
information about the terms on which the units are provided, or about their
financial responsibilities. One interviewee did not even know that he was supposed
to pay for the unit. Lack of clear information not only jeopardizes the financial
sustainability of the program but detracts from the efforts to introduce building
concepts such as cost recovery.
I inefficient use of resources: Several interviewees indicated that they did not give
up their domiks after they were assigned units, were not asked to do so, and that
they consider dormiks to continue to be their own property. In view of long waiting
lists and environmental problems caused by the domiks, allowing the beneficiaries to
continue to occupy the domiks after being assigned apartments is an inefficient use
of scarce resources. This can only be explained due to lack of (i) strong local
govemance, (ii) economically and environmentally sound policies.



Annex 5
Housing Issues Paper: Preliminary Findings
Supply Side Issues
* In the absence of a developed market based finance system, the construction
industry works on a fragile and highly fragmented base. The construction
sector operates at two segments: (i) the formal sector where housing programs
by the international organizations and diaspora are the only source of work; (ii)
informal (unregulated) sector where builders work on the basis of individual
demands. Housing programs by the international organizations are not
sustainable means for the growth of the former segment. While in the latter
segment, individual demand comprises a negligible volume of work which does
not promote further growth.
* Although builders enjoy free entry into the sector since there are no particular
barriers--in terms of the inputs, the low level of effective demand prevents the
development of private construction sector
Demand Side Issues
 Housing affordability: The housing price to income ratio shows that low
affordability and weak effective demand are the major features of the demand
side and that affordability is lower than in several other Former Soviet Union
countries
3 The expectation to be taken care by the State prevents many households in the
earthquake zone from considering other alternatives in meeting their housing
needs
* Although "ownership" of apartments is a well understood concept among the
beneficiaries, most of them are not aware of their new responsibilities and roles
regarding communal property.
Institutional Issues
* Available sector information is often not useful for the formulation of
. economically and socially sound policies.
* Current norms and codes are not relevant to meeting the needs of a market-
oriented housing sector.
* Lack of coordination between the two main housing investment programs in the
earthquake zone leads to inefficient use of resources. The Armenian Fund
continues to provide completed apartments free of charge through the official



waiting list. The programs should be complementary to each other rather than
competing. The inconsistencies between established policy targets and the
implementation of housing programs, is not only detrimental for the
development of market-based housing operations, but for the allocation of
housing units on an egalitarian basis.
Administrative Issues
* The centralized administrative and planning system appears to function without
noticeable deficiencies since land and housing markets are not functioning.
Nevertheless, the centralized (top-down) decision making system will be
detrimental to market operations at later stages of the development of land and
housing markets.
* Eligibility (privilege status) criteria prevent the efficient use of scarce resources,
constrain market development and are not relevant to meeting housing needs.
Legal Framework
Implementing regulations of real property laws have been developed but are
untested and therefore do not yet provide effective guidance or support for the
market operations.



Annex 6
Borrower's Responsibility in ICR Preparation
Te supervision mission staff and implementing agencies should discuss the
borrower's ICR responsibilities during the project implementation phase, reviewing them
in detail during missions in the year before the ICR i sdue. The borrower should be
encouraged to assign the task of organizing and overseeing completion reporting to a
senior official familiar with the operation, and to designate this official as the formal
contact with the Bank during the completion mission.
The borrower is responsible for
1.     preparing its own fimal evaluation report on the project, as required in the
General Conditions (see OP 13.55, footnote 2). If the report is longer than ten pages,
the borrower may be required to prepare a summary of it, if thi s condition is contained
in the legal agreements. If it i s not, the borrower is still encouraged to prepare the
summary. (If the borrower has decided not to furnish this summary, the ICR should
indicate so. If no summary is provided and the full report is more than ten pages, the
ICR should indicate the existence of the borrower's report.) The evaluation
report/summary, which is attached unedited to the ICR, should include: 
(a) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation
experience;
(b) an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may
be relevant in the future;
(c) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank during the evolution and
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship
between the borrower and the Bank with special emphasis on lessons learned;
2.     adopting a plan for the operational phase of the project, and defining, together
with the Bank, the performance indicators to be used to monitor operations and
development impact; and
3.     assisting the Bank in ICR preparation. This support generally consists of
(i) providing the Bank with all necessary information on the economic, financial,
social, institutional, and environmental conditions in which the project wa s
implemented, and on implementation and operation results (according to the
timing specified in the Loan Agreement);
(ii) providing feedback on the quality of the Bank' s contribution, from project
identification to supervision;
(iii) participating in the completion. mission and relevant discussions among the
Bank, the implementing agencies, and
(iv) providing comment on the Bank staff's draft ICR within two months of
receiving it.



Annex 7
Operational Plan:
The Operational Plan is a plan for the continuing future operation of the investments made during
project implementation. Under Bank zuidelines, the plan "should make appropriate technical,
financial, commercial, and institutional arrangements to ensure effective project operation."
This will apply to some extent to all susbcomponents of the EQRP, but particualrly to the
Bathhouses, Factories, and infrastruture.
Contents of the Operational Plan:
Depending on the nature of the subcomponent, the plan would include, for example, the timely
provision of all necessary inputs; adequate staffing (including training) and management; the
implementation of financial, economic, and other policies required for effective operation and
maintenance; and the marketing of the project's output.
The plan should list the performance itndicators by which the project can be monitored and
evaluated in the future and indicate whether a monitoring and evaluation system is or will be in
place.
The Plan might also recommend any follow-up needs, including further monitoring of the project's
operation.



Annex 8
IMPLJWENTA770N SUMMARYOFPJEt:CrAND SUBCOMPOfEN7': April 16, 1997
SAR         __         MTR           I     Prohac AuaU    _
Project Component               city                      Unit    Total            Unit    Tot     oty    Unit    Total
..____________   .___________________                  Cost   USSO   O         Cost   USSOOO           Cost   USSOO
1. H4ousingII
AL Housin ov7  Gurnn              _ _        735    3.162    2.32    724    4,189    3.,t    5231   4.350    3.581
Sc                               154    2.675      41;   11e    3.720- 431   15"   7.52sl   1,4N
Vanadzwr                         670    2.86    1,94    57      3.       2,27          445       2.431
Subtotal  1,555   2.        4,671 1,49.    4,140   6,181          4,   & 5a
A Stiwngthen:ng Gumn                           200    3.000      60t   333    5,357|   1,78    410    6,541   2.68
S ak                              50    3.000      15t          5356      48    122   6.121       74
Vanar_or                         260    3          7U    27    6.3%1   1,441   3S    5.03
.  her Cthea                                              4 _ ,                  144    7.334    t.
ottw cxnSubtotal   510             3        115C   737    5.367    3.4   1.061    6.341    6
SubtoWJ 1.a nd 1.b  2.65    3,00.    C2Dt  2231    4,54    10,31 Zs 5.0    1
c Single Faily iousing Gun,                                             32t    41    395t       1       4   1640        7
Soitak                                             776     s    3,7Ct      1      10  11,679      1
Vana__                                             731    46   4,45;              17    1 53      3SI
Subtotal                    Z371   14    4,021       68           r6s6       G
rVrAL BY CfrY Gurnn                             5                       1,O                    I=I
,S=kta                           2s4                                             3381
Vsado k                                                               ______
OtherCces"                                               12          ,
C UUities Allcibes                                                                10                       1
subtot-l
HOUSING TOTAL .9                      8351 2375   4,933   11,71   2857   5,605   16,013
2. Munwcipai Sewvces                                                        I _    _I_______________
a. Bathhouses Gumri             -20t                                    2              3741              1    2
Softakf    -                                       1                       3       61 
*Vanrazaor                                         1       2              4261                    44
Solar  w                                            1(          _ 
subtotal                    1,17(   =      =                  I            l.
b. lnfrnst,cWu,e Gunrt _' (                                                            120 S25b k
U2A a*                                                                1.194S  2sbCS             90TA
Vanadza404
|    C.  Corriinunity facl Oitb   Clu5e 7Z
t  _                           i        I           _                 35  lsutotal                .
FuACTORAL SERVMP ES TOTAL                     3 ,2744
3. Fac.tory Completo   8l                                             
Guv                                21             2.t1 `412.630                    41_ ,7
|               |~~~~~~~S=ek                        2r        |   t507                    1        3i             ,1
g      IVanad20r                          ~~~ ~~~~~               ~       ~     ~~~~~~3t  1 3.423  1,3  11  1,33
[               I ~~~~~~Or C/be4                                                          I   ,3    2             1,401
FACTORY COMPLETION TOTAL         7          | 7,044                    6,31     tO             6,92;
CIVIL WORKS TOTAL                      18,901                  23,13                  29,44t
I|_____ | SUPERVISiON TOTAL                        11313 1_260
__________ |___  CML WORKS GRAND TOTAL                               19,014                  23,27                  29.70!
EXPLANATION:
(1) Krassar-Gyumr water pipe
(2) Chakhcal-Spitak water pipe
(3) Lemadjour-Vanadzor water pipe
(4) Ubrary, Community Center, Stadium
(6) School with sports hall
(6) Two hospitals, Kindergarden, Municipality building, Telephone staton
(7) Schools in v. Mets Pami, Arevashokh (Spitak region)
School in v. Sariar (Akhourian region)
School in Stepanavan, School in Idjevan



Appendix B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE REPORT
The Earthquake Zone Reconstruction Project had the following objectives: i) to provide housing and
working places for the earthquake zone population; ii) to improve water supply and infrastructure
networks; iii) to improve cultural and welfare conditions of living; and iv) to reconstruct public health
and educational facilities. All those goals were quite successfully achieved in the course of project
implementation.
Project Implementation has been carried out by the PIU under the RA Ministry of Economy. The
Government allowed an atmosphere free of political and commercial pressures for the activities of the
PIU. This appeared to be one of the main reasons determining successful implementation of the project
and should be considoi-d one of the Project's main lessons. The PIU had 14 employees and 4
departments: administrative, project preparation, construction and financial. In contrast to other Projects,
PIU activities were given regular and detailed coverage in the press and television. PIU activities in all
project components are rated highly by the Government. In coordination with the Ministry of
Economy's administration, the PIU was the first in the Republic to introduce the western model of
competitive procurement of services and created a market of cormpetitive construction companies.
Emphasis should be given to the World Bank experts who trained Armenian specialists in the World
Bank Procurement preparation rules and guidelines through seminars and practical training. Scrupulous
selection of the PIU staff and their efficient cooperation with the World Bank representatives serves as a
learning lesson for future projects. It should be added that within four years of project implementation,
three ministers and four of the Task Managers (TM) were changed.
For competitive biddings (total of 155) the PIU applied a system of " Bills of Quantities". The system
has a number of positive features. However, in this particular project, it caused considerable difficulties.
The PIU mainly completed construction which had had a completion rate of 30-60 percent and it became
very difficult to defme all the working scopes to be covered. In addition, situations occurred when design
documentation omissions became apparent in the process of contract implementation. For that reason,
the PIIJ had to apply a system of charged orders largely. In the future, transition to a lump sum contract
systen would be more reasonable. This system is permitted by the World Bank and would probably
allow more effective realization of contracts, save time, and better focus at construction quality. In such
cases, design documentation performance need to be substantially improved. Procurement by the PIU
could serve as an example for other projects in Armenia and worldwide. That was repeatedly mentioned
by World Bank experts in the aide-memoires following their missions to the Republic.
The project introduced not only a competitive procurement bidding system but a system of multi-step
construction supervision so construction quality, scopes and terms were under control. The first step and
following the PIU's requirement, construction company assigned the supervisor from its personnel and
paid for the supervision services. At the second stage, supervision was carried on by supervising
companies selected and contracted by the PIU to supervise the considered construction. At the third
stage, supervision was performed by the PIU staff, who visited the earthquake zone on almost a weekly.
basis. The missions visited Armenia on a semi-annual basis and were very important, as they corrected
progress of project implementation through contacts between the World Bank and the government. The
formed supervision system is very effective. Nevertheless, supervising companies sometimes failed to
meet their obligations and the PIU terminated their contracts. In hindsight, the total number of
supervising companies should be reduced through selecting the best ones and assigning several contracts



Appendix B
to each of them. As a consequence, the supervising company would feel more responsibility, and the
PIU could demand strong performance.
Upon agreement with the government and the World Bank, the PIU practiced advance payment and
stored material payment system during project implementation. Principally, the system proved to be
correct. On occasion, however, construction companies were not scruple about their contract
responsibilities and got into debt to the PIU. The latter had to make every effort to have the amounts
paid back. According to bank guarantees, the PIU received an amount of USD 427,114 as a result of
contract annulments but, the PIU was not always able to get guarantee amounts. In such circumstances,
the PIU took the case to court. Five cases were brought into action and according to the State Arbitration
decision, the amounts due had to be reimbursed to the PIU. However, local courts in Gumri and
Akhourian have not been able to solve remuneration through confiscation of the construction companies'
property up to now.
To avoid such situations in new projects, advance and stored material payments should be stopped.
Nevertheless, advances might be paid only to reliable constructing companies which had proved their
high rating repeatedly. (The PIU was the first to introduce constructing company ratings). Every three-
four months, the PIU distributed rating lists of construction companies based on seven different criteria.
The rating greatly facilitated developing sound competition and displayed capabilities of the construction
companies to the ministries and agencies of the Republic. 113 organizations took part in biddings, while
50 worked on contracts with the PIU. 137 total contracts were signed.
A system of penalties was for the first time introduced in the course of Project implementation. For
each day overdue the PIU underpaid USD 200 to the builders. Total amount underpaid as penalties
comprised USD 640,132. That was an unprecedented case. The penalties improved performance
discipline within construction companies and, the PIU kept stringent control over the schedule of
contract realization. The experience revealed that penalties could be increased up to USD 1,000 for each
day overdue. This would force builders to arrange their work to a new level, with full responsibility to
fulfill all contract obligations.
The PIU has introduced a mechanism to upgrade the role of sub-contractors. Facing contractors' poor
performance, the PIU often had to shift emphasis to sub-contractors. This avoided contract annulment
and usually led, to successful completion of the construction. The contractor submitted sub-contract
agreement and letter of request to the PIU asking to make immediate sub-contract payments to the sub-
contractor. Mechanism of shifting emphasis to the sub-contractor can be applied at large in new projects.
In relation to the procurement and construction process organization, the World Bank consultants trained
the PIU staff in the western accounting systems. The "American FundWare" computerized system was
introduced, that allowed accounting on individual project categories and sub-categories. Chart of
accounts reflecting expenditure made both from the Japanese grant (grant accounting single-entry
system) and from the credit funds (fund accounting double-entry system) was prepared particularly for
the project. The PIU specialists improved the systems and adjusted them to each project components. At
the same time, necessary documentation to make payments on work scopes implemented was prepared
and approved.
Following the governmental decision, the PIU had a special account opened in the New-York City Bank,
exchange and dram accounts in the Central Bank (CB), and later in commercial banks of Armenia. The
PIU was exempted from VAT and custom duties. All institutions working on contracts with the PIU



were VAT - exempt as well. This factor should be taken into aLccount for new projects as the World
Bank does not pay taxes imposed in the given state.
The Project was implemented successfully in all of its components, with construction works for nearly
USD 29.4 million against USD 19.0 million envisioned in the SAR. That was possible due to rational,
effective and resourceful activities of the PIU and its close cooperation with the government and the
World Bank. It should be noted that the sound and goodwill relationship of the government and the
World Bank largely promoted flexible decision making - reflected positively in the project
implementation. Roughly, USD 9.5 million was additionally generated and saved within the framework
of the project. Upon agreement with the Government and the World Bank, the sums were re-allocated
among different categories: eight hundred apartments; six schools; a water-pipe; community center;
library and other supplementary facilities.
The housing component (half of all funds were spent) consisted of apartment buildings to be completed
or retrofitted, as well as single-family houses to be built on special land plots allotted in advance. Also,
new construction of two apartment block buildings as an experiment was permitted as a pilot. In
general, the housing component was implemented successfully. While on the strengthening sub-
component, the Project appeared to be a world-wide pioneer, the buildings were strengthened without
resettlement of dwellers for the first time in the world. Arnenian researchers have proposed new
technologies - accepted and highly appraised by leading specialists from many countries of the world -
applying seismic isolation systems to upgrade earthquake resistance of existing and occupied buildings.
This very important and meaningful outcome evidence shows the need to use new seismic isolation
techn-ologies in future projects. From the two mentioned experimental buildings, one was built with
seismic isolation. This permitted construction of a 4-story building in Spitak (for the first time) after the
1988 earthquake.
The second experiment was of a social type - local authorities in the area decided Shirak was to
construct one building with 50 percent financial contribution of its future households. It was decided to
start construction after the whole amount gathered by the beneficiaries would settle the PIU's account.
The experience demonstrated that many beneficiaries wished to obtain apartments in the town center and
were willing to pay half of their cost, but in reality, not ready to ifulfill their obligations. As a result, the
contract was performed but with significant delay and with the change of payment mechanism with
World Bank permission. In general, the experiment should be considered a failure, as the population is
not particularly enthusiastic about meeting their obligations. In fiture projects. another approach should
be practiced with respect to construction of buildings with beneficiaries' contribution, while such
contracts need to be carefully prepared.
Construction of single-family houses with land plots should be viewed as a pilot activity. The
experiment was that the family allocated a plot with engineering infrastructure or basement or core-
house. They had to complete construction of the house independently. At project preparation, local
authorities, government representatives, and PIU specialists believed the experiment would not succeed.
Due to the urgent request of the World Bank, the component was prepared and implemented. The PIU
clearly explained the essence of the experiment to the population. As a result, only finished houses and
few core-houses were occupied. Nobody wished to obtain just basements or cellars. In fact, the fears of
local authorities that the population would be unwilling to get unfinished construction came true. The
lesson is that future projects should pay more attention to the opinion of local authorities when planning
the sub-components.



The same lesson might be drawn with the mobile bath-houses sub-component. The World Bank,
however, agreed to reduce the number of bath-houses and met the wishes of local authorities to restore
central bath-houses situated in highly populated town districts. That sub-component was successfully
implemented. In the construction of mobile bath-houses, seismic isolation system was tested (for the
first time) in the Republic. The system allows avoiding deformation in bearing structures if earthquakes
occur during bath-house exploitation and which may create obstacles in re-mounting the structure when
moving it to a new location. During an earthquake, the seismic isolation excludes negative effect of
heavy water tanks placed in the bath-house attic space. After construction of all bath-houses (mobile and
stationary) was completed, local authorities were given technical assistance in preparing competitive
procurement to select bath-house operating private individual or organizations to sign appropriate
contracts. That activity was carried out by the American University of Armenia on the contract with the
PIU. The activity took place most successfully in Vanadzor. At this point, local authorities in other
towns have not decided on the selection of contractors very slowly. In new projects selection of the
companies should be started concurrently with the construction of such facilities. This would enable
private executives to monitor construction process and make corrections if necessary.
Construction of water-pipes for Gumri, Vanadzor and Spitak towns was completed in the project
framework. In Vanadzor, two clinics were also strengthened and reconstructed. In other towns and
villages of the earthquake zone, six schools and a kindergarten were built anew, strengthened or
completed. All those facilities are now operating properly.
Nine factory shells and one test-ground to produce building blocks were completed. Selection of those
facilities was made mainly by World Bank experts. The component was one of the most complicated
within the project. Nevertheless, the PIU supported by the Ministries of Economy and Industry has
successfully implemented - the main problem was to define proper work scopes according to starting
minimum lists proposed by the Ministry of Industry. As implementation of factory shell contracts
proceeded, parts of work scopes that had been considered completed before the start of the project were
appearing incomplete or already unfit. This refers mostly to the scopes of roofing works. In
construction completion, either technological process or fire-prevention safety was dictating erection of
supplementary structures. Therefore, the PIU had to work hard to implement the component for which a
fourth part of all funds was spent. The precise number of new working places is not known yet; it may
comprise 3-4 thousand.
Some of factories operating have very low output rates. Most have no funds to assemble and adjust the
technological equipment. Much depends on the factory administrations, but there are still many of
objective reasons complicating full operation of the factories. Halved decision of such a major problem
within limited credit financing is probably not reasonable. In future, setting a task of factory
reconstruction as an integrated decision would be required - starting from construction and ending with
technology processes to ensure putting factories into operation in full scope. It should be noted that the
"Armelectrocondensator" factory in Gumri was given technical assistance in production streamlining and
marketing. The activity was carried out by the American University of Armenia on contract with the
PIU. American University of Armenia rendered technical assistance to all factories in the organization
of their economic and financial activities.
Other works under "Technical Assistance" refers to the assistance shown by USAID-ICMA in the
organization of condominiums. First condominium in the framework of the project was organized in
"Ani" micro-district of Gumri. Credit funds were invested to establish an office for the condominium
that might serve an example for other associations. Moreover, the PIU had contacts with Giumri and
Vanadzor representatives (2 persons in total) who where trained by the ICMA consultants and helped in



organizing condominiums in Shirak and Lori Areas. That was a complicated process. First, the
population had to understand and accept an idea of condominium organization, and second, the
households were slow to occupy their apartments. The situation caused discontent for both the World
Bank and USAID. However, it was determined by objective and subjective reasons. The PIU delivered
apartments built to low standards; taking in account that the households had to complete flats and pay for
them multaneously for cost recovery purposes. For the first time in the Republic, the PIU developed and
introduced cost recovery mechanism both for apartmnent block buildings and single-family houses. There
were also reasons related to the process of move, children attending schools in other parts of the towns,
and availability of charitable support as free distribution of kerosene, food, etc., to those who lived in
"domik"-containers. People showed displeasure when given uncompleted flats and had to pay for them,
while others were given free (completed) housing built by the All-Armenia Fund. In this connection, the
PIU together with the World Bank consultants had to make a comparative analysis to demonstrate that
the ideology accepted within the earthquake zone reconstruction project enabled building more
apartments within the limits of fixed credit amount. As a whole, the process of condominium
organization should not be considered accomplished and activity of condominiums should be monitored
in future.
Deploying of telemetric networks around Giumri and Vanadzor was another activity under Technical
Assistance framework. The work was accomplished in compliance with contracts signed with "Geotech"
and "Youlkan" Russian companies, respectively. The companies supplied the outfit and computer
equipment with the relevant software for 16 observation sites (8 for each town). All observation sites
were selected by the Armenian National Survey of Seismic Protection (NSSP). Further, both telemetric
networks were handed over for exploitation to the NSSP. They arranged new quality seismic activity
monitoring across the northern part of Armenia. In addition, the N4SSP had been supplied with testing
equipment upon the contracts with MTS and "James Instruments" companies, as well as receiving other
computer equipment.
As mentioned above, unique seismic isolation projects were realized in the project framework. In all
countries where the technology is applied, the majority of buildings equipped with appropriate
seismometric stations. The latter enable gaining abundant data on the behavior of buildings with seismic
isolation in strong earthquakes. Installation of strong ground motion instruments in all buildings
equipped with seismic isolators seems to reasonable. in Armenia therefore, the project appeared to
become a basis for widely introduced seismic isolation, where seismic isolators are already applied at ten
buildings. If this number is correlated with the Republic population, Armenia apparently would rank
with other world leaders in the field of seismic isolation. That breakthrough was facilitated also by the
training of Armenian researchers from the NSSP Earthquake Engineering Center and "Nahirit" Research
& Production Enterprise in Tan Abdul Razak Laboratory, Malaysian Rubber Producers Research
Association, England.
Due to the project, Armenia has started production of homemade seismic isolators up to the world
standards in which our specialists were trained. The above Laboratory rendered technical assistance in
the preparation of first Seismic Isolation Construction Code in Armenia. The first edition of the Code
will soon be presented to the RA Urban Development Ministry. This confirms successful interaction of
the Government and the World Bank, as well as effective activity of the PIU. in construction work
implementation and in creating most important systems and documents for the Republic. which is one of
the world most earthquake-prone countries.
The studies of the earthquake zone infrastructure and economy were carried out with the World Bank
contracts with "Binnie Black and Veatch" and "Abt Association" companies. American University of



Armenia was the subcontractor on the second mentioned study. The companies submitted their resulting
reports to the relevant ministries. Without detracting from the companies' merit, highly qualified work
of the AUA and its great potential should be particularly mentioned. For new projects, the
recommendation is to practice extended involvement of local organizations and companies in various
studies and technical assistance.



Attachment to Appendix B
OPERATIONAL PLAN
I.    Housing Component
1.    Organization of monitoring over condominium creation and functioning.
2.    Organization of training for condominium association members, their leaders, and
property owners.
3.    Rendering technical assistance to condominiums in the organization of their financial
activity.
4.    Organization of monitoring over credit cost recovery on the part of beneficiaries.
5.    Following the progress of apartment completion, extension of core-houses, completion
of basements and cellar plots by the households.
6.    Installation of seismometric stations in the seismically isolated buildings and buildings
with vibration dampers to study performance of the buildings in strong earthquakes.
II.   Infrastructure Component (bath-houses, water-pipes)
1.    Rendering technical assistance to all private enterprises operating the bath-houses in the
organization of their financial and production activity.
2.    Organization of monitoring over operation of bath-houses and credit cost recovery on
the part of private owners.
3.    Identification of town sites most suitable for mobile bath-houses.
4.    Preparing measures to extend the scope of services for the population in stationary bath-
houses.
5.    Monitoring operation of the water-pipes, revealing of possible water leakage sites.
III.   Factory Completion
1.    Rendering technical assistance to all factories in preparing business plans.
2.    Organization of advanced technology training for factory administrations in developed
countries.
3.    Organization of monitoring over the credit cost recovery on the part of factories.



Appendix C-1
ARMENIA: EQRP DISBURSEMENTS
25 -
.1
2                                    --SgO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50ofginal
c
0                                                                                                                    5--90 revis!d 519
S S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50 act reorqW     
E                                                                                   -o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  - 590acfl revsd
a                                                                                                 -B-- CTRFI disb'd
10  
0)    0)    0)    0) )    0)    0)    0)   Lo      to    0)            0) )D0SB590.XL0
CV)   SD   I~~..   0)  ~~-  ~-    CV)   ID    t-    0)    '-  ~~-    co) U) I  0)    m-~          C)    U
DISB590.XLS



Appendix C-2
IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY OF PROJECT AND SUIBCOMPONENT: APRIL 16, 1997
SAR                     MTR                 Pro act Actual
Project Component                Clty                        Unit    Total            Unit    Total        |Unit    Totl
.___________            Qty_____________ :  Cost   USSO000    Q  Cost   USSOO0  Ct_   Cost   US000
1. Houstng                                                  I                -
a. Completion Gum                              735             2.324   724    4,8        ,      8231   401o  3.58C
SPtak                             154    2.675j      41    118 l   3,72            1981   7,5251   1,4C
Vanasor                           6701   2,8961   1,140   570    39        2274   534    4,567    2.43'
Other Caies       _                  I         I      _     S2    S.3S4      4391  204    4,956    1.01t
Subtotal  t ,591AM    ;91    4,S75  t1,494    4,144    4t6,1  1I,759    4,8I   8,a,
b. Strengthening Gunir                           2001   3.0001     60   333    5,357    1,7a4   410   6.541    2.68
Spitak                             so   930001    'i         50    5,3561    482   122    6.121       74
Vanacor                           260    3,0001     7      270    5.356    1,4      384    5,823    2.2
Other Cfes                         _   _344 5,                            36        1451   7,334    1 .
Subtotal   5i    3.000 ' 1.5         737    5.367    3.94E  1.061    6.341    8
Subtotal l.a and l.b  Z,      3,000    6      2,231    4,54    10,1    28Z015,407   i52i
c. Single Famnly Housng Guma                                              82      48   '3.95       190      4   11
Soitak                           =                   776    50    3,700      1       11    167S      8S
Vanadzor                                             761    46    4,457      205    1    21,532      3t
Subtotal                     Z377   1i      4,028      5&           16,955
rorAL By CTry Gumn                -                      -     _____ 9,1          = 1123i
Spitak                            20                        25                      3361
Vanador                           93C                 _    a      =                 93a
Oter Cibes                          0                      126                      34S
ld. Utlitites All cities                                       _                     1.000                     13t1
Subtotal                                             1,      _
HOUS i N iOTAL  20691               8,583  2,375    4,932   11,713  2,857    5,6051  16,013
. Municipal Services  r                        -                           .
a. Bathhouses GumnT                                              620      21              374      2              2
Soltak                                               le       51             3at      61
Vanadzor                             j _ _           181    21               4261     3
Soiar Heatno                                         2101 21                      
Subtotal                     1,17                   III                      1
o i. lntastrctureGunt                   _                          500 f  s               1.2   g25 i,ni
Spiak (2)                        -                     4                    1,194  29m  i
Vanadzor 63)                           _       r     5o_ _ _                 400_  3.3 &M       r
__________          _Subtotal                     1,504                    1,7S                    2.2
C. CommrunfFFacilities GuMfi 4)                           L        II                       1     3501                    62f
|Vanadzor (6)~~                                                                3S06j 
omerciuesto   1 1)
Other -iUest7)  Subtotal  -        -          60W   -       -        1,05
MUNKPAL SRVICES rOTAL             )             3,274                   5,033       j            8 ,0S
3. FactoryCorril bon  2Gum                                 2i        1   2114                     2.630      41            2.67
Spitak                               21          1_507                      1.0       3              151
vanactor                                           3.42:                   1,374      t1            1.
Lt hierclUes                     - F -.                                      1.330     21            1 .
FACTORY COMPLE7?ON TOTAL           7 [  7"044                |        |  6,390    10              6,923
CML WORKS TOTAL                         18,901                   23,136                  29
|1 |      SUPERVISIONTOTA                            113                      139                     260
|   _________ _   CML WORKS GRAND TOTAL                                19,014                   23.275                  29.705
EXPLANATION:
(1) Krassar-Gyumri water pipe
(2) Chakhcal-Spitak water pipe
(3) Lernadjour-Vanadzor water pipe
(4) Ubrary, Community Center, Stadium
(5) School with sports hall
(6) Two hospitlis, Kindergarden, Municipality building, Telephone station
(7) Schools in v. Mets Pami, Arevashokh (Spitak region)
School in v. Sarar (Akhourian region)
School in Stepanavan, School in Idjevan



Appendix C-3
SUMMARY RESULTS OF SAMPLE SURVEY
1. HOUSEHOLDS' EVALUATION OF THE UNIT
1.1 Living conditions of beneficiaries before and after the earthquake (until moving into their
current units)
Conditions                       percent of         percent of
households         households
Before the EQ      After the EQ
Location
*  Same city/village             99                96
*  Other city/village             1                 4
Type of housing
*  Domik                          0.3              83
*  Apartment                     87.6               4
*  Single family house            8                 4
*  Dormitory                      2                 0.7
*  Other                          2                 8.4
Sharing the unit with others
*  Yes                           13                15
*  No                            87                85
Average household size         T        4.5                4.5
1.2 Current forms of utilization of domik
Responses                           percent of households
*  Given back to local authority   20
*  Sold                             10
*  Given to a friend or a relative   8
_ Used as a storage                 12
*  Used as a workshop                2
*  A part of the family lives       15
*  Kept empty                       15
*  Used as construction material    10
*  Demolished                        6
*  Given back to the original owner  2
*  Other                -0



1.3 Comparison of current units with the ones occupied before the earthquake
much better   better (  about the same (  worse (  much worse (
(percent)  percent       percent)     percent    percent)
. ~     ~__ _                    )      ___                 )    ____
Construction quality        10         25            15           33          17
Size of the unit            11         28            36           20           5
Internal fixture             4          7            29           40          20
1.4 Comparison of current units with the ones occupied after the earthquake
much better  better (  about the same (  worse (  much worse (
(percent)  percent       percent)     percent    percent)
_ ~     ~     ~       _ _          )      __      _    _     )
Construction quality        61         29            4             5          1
Size of the unit            62         29             4            4          1
Internal fixture            54          18           12           12          4
1.5 Satisfaction with the current unit
Responses                            percent of households
|   Satisfied                        40
|    Not entirely (but acceptable)   21
  Dissatisfied                      39
1.6 Reasons for dissatisfaction
Responses                              percent of households
(who are dissatisfied)
*  Poor environmental quality         38
*  Inconvenient location              32
*  Units are unfinished               86
*  Bad construction quality           74
*  Small size of units                12
*  Lack of proper infrastructure (mainly  69
central heating, and water)
Total is higher than 100 percent since interviewees indicated more than a reason
2. HOUSEHOLDS' EVALUATION OF THE MARKET PRICE OF UNIT and PAYMENT
TERMS
*  Absence of official documents                 34                    25
*  Lack of control/monitoring                    22                    15
*  Lack of money                                 22                    39
*  Dissatisfaction with the unit                  1                     2
*  Lack of knowledge that he/she was supposed to
pay                                           15                    8
  Moved recently                                  1                    5
*  Bought/exchanged                               5                     2
*  Paid off (finished)                           --                     4



2.1 Evaluation of the price that they have to pay to get the ownership of the apartment
Responses                                                              percent of households
*  Fair                                                               60
*  Unfair                                                             24
*  Not sure                                                            16
2.2 Reasons for evaluating the price as unfair
Responses                                                  percent of households (those who
think that the price is unfair /see
above)
*  It should have been free                               13
*  Paid for the previous apt (demolished in the EQ)        2
*  Planned to be free initially (when constructions started)  11
*  Unemployment and lack of income                        34
*  Dissatisfaction with the apt.                          11
*  Unfinished (finishing work was left to the beneficiaries)  29



4. SENSE OF OWNERSHIP AND ATTITUDES TOWARDS NEW RESPONSIBILITIES AS
OWNER-OCCUPIERS
4.1 Beneficiaries' ideas about the ownership of the building
Responses                        percent of households
*  No idea                      33
*  Zshek                         5
*  Condominium association      14
*  Municipality                 27
*  Government                    3
*  The Mayor                     1
*  World Bank                   12
*  All Armenian Fund             4
4.2 Beneficiaries' ideas about the ownership of the flat thiat
they were assigned
Responses                        percent of households
*  A member of the family       98
rs  Other (relative)              2
4.3 Beneficiaries' considerations of selling their units
Responses                      percent of households
*  Yes                         35
*  No                          57
*  Not sure                     8
4.4 Reasons for not considering selling the unit
Responses                            percent of houseiholds (those who
do not consider selling their
units)
*  I cannot buy another one again   70
*  A real estate is better than money  0
*  I want to leave it for my kids    5
*  It is a good apartment           12
*  I do not want to sell it anyway   3
4.5 Beneficiaries' observations about the occupancy rate in their buildings
Responses                                   percent of households
*  Almost all the flats are occupied       20
*  More than half of the flats are occupied  13
*  Half of the flats are occupied          14
*  Less than half of the flats are occupied  24
*  Very few of the flats are occupied      20
*  Missing (I do not know)                  9



5.    MOVING INTO CURRENT UNITS
5.1 Beneficiaries' evaluations about the procedure of getting a unit
Was it difficult to get on to the waiting list and to  percent of
follow-up the formal procedure to get the unit    households
*  Yes                                            17
*  No                                             78
*  No idea (I am not sure)                         5
5.2 Difficulties encountered in getting a unit
Respor .;                                        percent of
households those
who encountered
difficulties
*  Too much bureaucracy                          48
*  We had to pay extra money                     13
*  We received a unit smaller than we should have  22
*  Long waiting list                             17
5.3 Expenditures encountered in relation to moving and finishing the new units
Expenditures          Fees + down    Finishing  Transportation   Other*      Total
payment       work
Median of
expenditures
(in Drams) .          16,000         120,000    16,000         60,000        82,000
5.4 Other expenditures
Out of 296 interviewees only 11 indicated that they had expenditures other than fees, down payment,
finishing work and transportation of their furniture. Breakdown of other expenditures are given in the
table below.
Other expenditures                                           Number of        Average
people           amount paid
(in Drams)
*  Payment for registration                                  2                70,000
*  For finishing the roof and basement of the building       3                30,000
*  Unofficial money                                          2_90,000
*  Unexplained                                               4                --
* 20, 000 Drams was asked officially for registration, and 120, 000 Drams was paid to exchange the
apartments with another beneficiary.
5.5 Attitudes towards receiving unfinished units
Responses                                                              percent of
househoeJs
*  It was a fair decision to leave the finishing work to the beneficiaries  11
*  It was an unfair decision to leave the finishing work to the beneficiaries  85
*  Indecisive (I do not know)                                          4



5.6 Advantages of getting an unfinished apartment
Responses                                       percent of households
*  No advantages, but at least I have an apartment    90
*  I can finish it according to my taste         6
* I do not know                                 4
5.7 Willingness to pay a higher price to receive a finished unit
Responses                                       percent of households
*  Yes                                         70
*  No                                          22
*  I do not know                                8
ATD
O:\ICRFIN2.DOC
December 23, 1997 4:20 PM



IBRD 28965
T. D..-o,
GEORGIA                                                                                                                                                                                                         UV. JRA PIE
EoHo~gd-ooko                                                                                                                                                                                        - OLDV                           EDERATION      \          AOHA1
a  ~~~                   AZERBAIJAN                         RBAU
*                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aloverdi  Ny-6oerion                             .,-
~~~~~-       ToRhir                                                                                                                               EULO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ULGARI
-.                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GEORGIAE
A,e of. Mo   P..AEBAIATU
ARMENIA                        TURENITA'
I      I                                           ,.-.'"\                                -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YRA  ISMJ EMU
CYPRUS           ARAB         R.O  A
REP  -       RG-O  A
OA-ly                                          T.u.anian                                                                                              L~~~~I  EBANON f
S.H.,                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
0 Berd                           EARTHQUAKE RCNTUTO
OMets P-ni   ~ ~ ~     ~            ~           ~           ~ ~ ~ ~~/PROJECT
D r   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~---1988 EARTHQUAKE ZONE
1# ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ohpPROJECT TOWNS/VILLAGES
T. K.,  0                                                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 OTHER TOWNS/V LUAGES
REGION MSARZ) CAP TALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
Tw6k.1, it                                   -40                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
t  0                                                                                                                0A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~fv,tshe,,~  RAILROADS
Ap-an ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JKoToe'k 0                                                                                                  DISTR CT BOUNDARIES
.4                                                                                                                                                                            REG OtJ (MARZ) BOUNDIR ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RGO  STRI ONSRE
- -INTERNATIONAL SCUNDARIES
A,.gats 0                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION AND CONSTRUCTION
TOWNS              COF FLATS         RENEFICIARIES'
G-on (pop 250UUU0I     226                051 7
Vo-rdnoio  iOV         958                4167
Uptok pp 22 0001       358                1611
*     St*po,-.nO              1802               460
AkI,--no               48                 216
NA,V                   38                  170
GAVAR                                                 ~~~~~~        ~        ~ ~~~~~~~Monolk  24  159
RAK                                                                                                            ~~~~~~        ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Toshir  24  108
ARhRItk                20                  T0
Pp- ...h-n             1 8                 HO
0                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VILLAGES
SHIRAK REGION
D1OdIOuP              25                 1255
Ve~hn-0j-.             6                  50
N                                                                       Vc          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LORI REGION
ARMAVIR                                                                                           rtmi                                         Df~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-hORe  15  75
b, z                                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~                     ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Shi,ok-orn  5  25
G-gork C-Rl           1 2                60
b.-d.                                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~ ~ ~                      ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Go-gork  9  451
Dz                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~        ~       ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lorn.pot  6  50
ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOTAL                                                                     2,862              12,917
9oor0o~~~~~~~~~  4-5,           %~~~~~~~~~,  * ARTASHAT  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                                                                                  ond 5 ponsoo/foorly for orliogos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_d5p-f-d 6



