                                  Documentof
                                 The World Bank




                                                   ReportNo.: 28312




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT


                                   ARMENIA


                EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
                               (CREDIT 2562-AM)




                                 March 31,2004




Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

CURRENCY     EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Armenian Drams (AMD)
1993 (Dec)       US$l.OO         -
                                 -       AMD 80         (Earthquake Reconstruction Approved)
1997(Oct)        US$l.OO         -
                                 -       AMD 502        (Earthquake Reconstruction Completed)

ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CAE              Country Assistance Evaluation(by OED)
CIDA             Canadian International Development Agency
ERR              economic rate of return
EU               European Union
FAO/CP           Foodand Agriculture OrganizatiodWorld Bank Coop.
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA              International Development Association
ILO              International Labor Organization
IMS              irrigation management system
M&E              monitoring andevaluation
MIS              management information system
O&M              operationand maintenance
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
TA               technical assistance
UNDP             UnitedNations Development Program
USAID            UnitedStates Agency for InternationalDevelopment


FISCAL   YEAR
Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, OperationsEvaluation                   : Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, OperationsEvaluationDepartment                 : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                  : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             : Mr.GeorgeT. KeithPitman

                                                             1


I  OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independencein evaluation.                      I
 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrity of the Bank's self-evaluationprocessandto veritj that the Bankswork is
 producingthe expectedresults, and second,to help develop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As partof this work, OEDannually assessesabout25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations.Inselectingoperations for assessment, preferenceis givento thosethat are
 innovative,large,or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;and thosethat are likelyto generate
 importantlessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a reviewof the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
 validate and augment the informationprovidedin the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review processand OED management approval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewedby the responsibleBank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrowerfor review;the borrowers'comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has beensent to the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluationmethods used by OED are suited to the broad rangeof the World Bank'swork.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, projectdesign, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Followingis
 the definition and rating scale usedfor each evaluationcriterion (more informationis availableon the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectivesare consistentwith the country's
 current developmentpriorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressedin Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies,Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expectedto be achieved,taking into
 account their relative importance.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higherthan the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives.Possible ratings:High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally appliedto adjustmentoperations.
       Sustainability:The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnstitutional DevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
 to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a)
 better definition,stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsand/or (b)
 better alignment of the missionand capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
 institutionalarrangements.InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact includesboth intended and unintendedeffects of a
 project. Possibleratings:High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expected to be
 achieved, efficiently. Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,Moderately
 Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensuredquality at entry and
 supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (includingensuring adequatetransition arrangements
 for regular operation of the project).Possible ratings:Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
 Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance:The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
 quality of preparationand implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements,towards the
 achievementof developmentobjectivesand sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,
 Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                     111



Contents
PrincipalRatingsandKeyStaffResponsible                                      .................................................................  v

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................        ..
                                                                                                                                              vi1

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................       ix

1 Background
 .                     ..................................................................................................................      1

2 The Project
 .                    ...................................................................................................................      2

3 Results
 .           ...........................................................................................................................       6

        Objective 1:Provide improved housing and living conditions ...............................                                             6
        Objective 2: Reconstruct infrastructure supporting employment creation ...........11
        Objective 3: Develop a longer-term sustainable programfor rehabilitation.......11
4 Ratings
 .            ........................................................................................................................        13

        Outcomes...............................................................................................................               13
        Relevance...............................................................................................................              13
        Efficacy ..................................................................................................................           14
        Efficiency ...............................................................................................................            14
        Institutional Development......................................................................................                       15 .
        Sustainability .........................................................................................................              15
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                    16
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                       16
5 ConclusionsandLessons
 .                                            ...........................................................................................     17

Annex A    .BasicData            Sheet     ..............................................................................................     19

Annex B SupportingDataandInformation
          .                                                                .................................................................  21

Annex C    .BorrowerComments......................................................................................                            31




.
This report was preparedby GeorgeT. KeithPitman, who assessedthe projectin September 2003.The
reportwas editedby William Hurlbut.and Soon-Won Pak providedadministrative support.


                                                   V



PrincipalRatings and Key StaffResponsible

ARMENIA: EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
(CREDIT 2562-AM)
                              /CR*                       ICR Review*              PPAR
0utcome                       Satisfactory               Satisfactory             Moderately
                                                                                  Satisfactory
Sustainability                Likely                     Uncertain                Likely
Institutional Development     Substantial                Substantial              Modest
Impact
Bank Performance              Satisfactory               Satisfactory             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance          Satisfactory               Satisfactory             Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Reviewis an intermediateOED productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of
the ICR.



Project                      Task Manager                Division Chief/             Country
                                                         Sector Manager              Director
Appraisal (1994)             A. Nassau                    Dominique Lallement        Basil Kavalsky
Completion (1997)            Erik Peterson                Margaret Thalwitz          Ricardo Halperin


                                              vii


Preface

         This is the ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report(PPAR) preparedbythe
Operations Evaluation Department(OED) for the Armenia EarthquakeReconstruction
Project. The project was approvedinFebruary 1994for an IBRDCredit ofUS$20 million.
Itwas closedone year behindschedule inJune 1997whenUS$0.026millionwas
cancelled.

         This report is basedonthe Implementation Completion Report (ICR) preparedby
the EuropeanandCentralAsia Region, the Memorandum andRecommendation ofthe
President, StaffAppraisal Report (Report No. 11964, datedJanuary 5, 1994), loan
documents, project files, and discussions withBank staff. An OED mission visited
Armenia inSeptember2003 andmet stakeholders,Inter alia the mission discussedthe
effectiveness o fthe Bank's assistance with development andfinancing partners, project
implementing agencies, private sector agencies, andbeneficiaries. The cooperation and
assistance of central government and regional officials and staff, nongovernmental
stakeholders, cofinanciers, and other interested parties are gratefully acknowledged.

         The rationale for the assessment is that Armeniawas anewBank client anda
more thorough evaluation was requiredto support OED's Country Assistance Evaluation
(CAE) due inthe spring of 2004. The ICR of this project was of avery high quality and
indicated that sustainability of benefits was an issue because of a challenging social and
economic transition, reliance on subsidies, and institutional restructuring neededto
facilitate divestiture to beneficiary management and/or ownership. Thus an important part
of OED's evaluation was to review sustainability issues six years after project
completion. Additionally, the findings will contribute to an ongoing study: "Natural
Disasters and Emergency Reconstruction: an OED Review of Bank Assistance."

         Following standard OED procedures, this draft PPAR was sent to the borrower
for comments. Comments received from the borrower are attached as Annex C. In
accordance with the Bank's disclosure policy, the final report will be available to the
public following submission to the World Bank's Boardo fExecutive Directors.


                                              ix

Summary

         The Government ofArmenia launched the Earthquake ReconstructionProject in
1994 with three objectives. First, to provide improved housing for about 2,200 families
andimprove livingconditions throughbetter water supplies benefiting 500,000 residents
inthe EarthquakeZone; second, to reconstruct basic infrastructure, mainly factories,
supporting creation o f employment for 2,500 workers; andthird, to develop a longer-term
sustainable program for rehabilitation.

         After the 1988 earthquake that killed over 30,000 people and left 530,000
homeless, a massive Soviet-ledreconstruction effort built newperi-urban dormitory
towns inthe northwestregion. However, with the fall o fthe Soviet Unionand the
macroeconomic crisis inArmenia, over 7,000 apartments remainedincomplete, 25,000
inner-city apartments were uninhabitablebecause of structural damage, and urbanwater
supplies remaineddamaged. Over 100,000 people lived inabout 24,000 units of
emergency accommodation called domiks, 87 percent o fwhich were located inthe cities
o f Gumri, Vanadzor, and Spitak.

         The project was highlyrelevant, andwas inthe first round o f lendingsoon after
Armenia joined the Bank. The outcome o f the project was moderately satisfactory. The
first objective was substantially achieved but with some shortcomings. While over 2,800
apartments were either completed or strengthened, the inability o fmost beneficiaries to
meet Bank conditions and co-pay a quarter o f the incremental cost ledto partial
completion o f units that delayed their occupation. Municipal loans to beneficiaries
overcame this problem, butrepayment was not pursuedfor political reasons.
Paradoxically, this debt later disqualified privatization o f Bank-assisted apartments, one
o f the Bank's sector objectives. The bar to privatization was only removed in2002 when,
following a USAID request to government, the homeowners' debts were written o f f
(against the Bank's advice). Low incomes and lack o fhousing finance instruments
frustrated a small private sector housing component. Municipal services, including public
bathhouses, were constructed and fully met local demand for permanent inner-city
facilities. Water supplies were upgraded as planned.

         The second objective to reconstruct factories to provide employment was
unsuccessfbl - fewer than 500jobs were created. The project rehabilitated 10 factories,
accounting for almost a quarter o fproject costs (US$7 million). Because of fluid economic
conditions, cessation o fmarket links to the former Soviet Union, lack o f commercial
experience, andoutmodedproducts, only two o f the factories remain inoperation.

         The thirdobjective to develop a longer-term sustainable program for
rehabilitation was partlyachieved. Housingpolicy reforms were implemented only
slowly because government gave this a much lower priority thancivil works and
construction activities, as didthe Bank. Other development partners (especially U SAID)
were quite keen to take up the challenge and did. Even so, the government approved in
1995 the Laws on Collateral andReal Property buildingon the 1993 Housing
Privatization Law andthe 1991 LandPrivatization Law and Land Code. A draft Housing
PolicyAction Planwas produced at mid-term review as scheduled, and initiated setting
upo fcondominiumassociations.

                                               A




       Overall, institutional development impact i s ratedmodest. While encouraging the
growth o f a private sector construction industry and creation o fthe Earthquake
Engineering Center were very successful, government and project management's focus
on construction ledto neglect o fhousingpolicy and systemic sector reformissues. There
was only modest information and outreach to beneficiaries on key policy initiatives, such
as condominium associations andbeneficiary contribution to housing costs and
maintenance, andthe public mostly remainedunaware o f the reduced role o fthe state at
the end o fthe project.

       Sustainability i s rated likely for the housing and community components that
accounted for the bulk o fproject investment. Ownership o fhousing units i s currently
being established with USAID assistance, and government andproject beneficiaries are
being weaned from the ideathat housing is a public good. However, with continued high
levels o f unemployment and poverty incidence at 48 percent, government subsidies for
housingwill be requiredfor some time.

       Bank andborrower performance are rated satisfactory butwith some
shortcomings. Government at the central and local levels performed less well on the
reform agenda because they continued to see housing as a primarilypublic good, and
also supported factory development made non-viable bythe permanently realigned
market links with the former Soviet Union. And several changes o fBank staff and
management reducedthe Bank effectiveness on sector issues. As a result, longer-term
reform o fhousing policy was sidelined.

There are three lessons from this experience:

    P A phasedapproachto reconstruction programs after naturaldisastersprovides
       flexibility and avoids locking into inappropriate activities. A first phase needs to
       carefully identifyandprioritize immediate, short- andlong-term needs while
       simultaneously buildinglocal capacity andinformation, tasks that generally require
       well-targeted technical assistance. Important considerations include factoring in
       macroeconomic realities, determining incentives frameworks, balancing direct and
       indirect costs, andfostering innovation.
    >  Disaster recoveryprojects, with their immediatephysical objectives, maynot be
       suitable vehicles for achieving longer-termpolicy reforms.
    >  Reconstructionefforts should be designed to preserve communities, enhance
       supporting services, and take great care that self-help features are cognizant o f
       cultural norms andrealisticallyreflect household's ability to pay. Inturn, this
       requires that the Bank give more attention to social andpoverty assessmentsin
       disaster reconstruction activities.




                                                               Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                Director-General
                                                             Operations Evaluation

                                                       1


1.       Background

1.       Armenia i s a small, mountainous landlocked country inthe Caucasus with an area of
29,800 square kilometers and apopulation of about 3 million. A third of the population live
inYerevan, which is locatedinthe wideArarat valley that forms the southwesternborder
withTurkey.A secondfocus ofpopulation inthe northwest region runs from the second-
largest city, Gumri, eastwards into the mountains toward the cities of Spitak andthe
Vanadzor industrialized area. Underthe former centralized economic system of the Soviet
Union, Armenia experiencedrelatively robust economic development, unparalleled among
other former Soviet republics, which created a diversified industrial infrastructure, a
flourishing agriculture, and moderntransport network. As aproducer o f industrial,
intermediate and finished goods, most trade was with Russia and surrounding republics-
Georgia to the north and Azerbaijan to the east.

2.       The earthquake of December 1998, centered on Spitak inthe northwest region, was
the first of several devastatingblows to the economy.Extensive damage to infrastructure and
housing stock destroyed 40 percent ofthe country's manufacturing capacity, killed25,000-
30,000 people and left 530,000 homeless.' After regaining independencein 1991, the loss of
Soviet support, markets andhighly subsidizedenergy ledto rapid decline inindustrial output,
high unemployment, and a drop inGDP by almost two-thirds. Agriculture was more resilient,
its contribution to the contracting economy rose threefold to 37 percent of GDP, and its share
o ftotal employment increasedfrom 18 percentto over 25 percentby 1993.

3.       Efforts to recover from the earthquake were thwarted by the breakup of the Soviet
Union, Most o f the recovery works initiated under a committee ofthe Supreme Soviet were
incomplete when Soviet workers were repatriated in 1991. Withdrawal o f Soviet troops
allowed the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict to erupt, reinforcingthe already poor relations with
Turkey and causing Azerbaijan to close the maingas pipelinefrom Russia in 1991.Only the
Iranianand Georgian borders remained open. Subsequently, international aid efforts focused
on relief for an estimated 250,000 immigrant refugeesdisplaced by the six years of
hostilities.* After the Chernobyl disaster in 1988, Armenia's Medzamor nuclear power plant
of the same design was closed, only reopening in 1995. Closure of gas and nuclear power
(accounting for almost 80 percent of Armenia's energy consumption) was cripplingto the
economy. Inresponseto all these adverseeffects on the economy, the budget deficit reached
55 percent of GDP in 1993 and inflationhit 5,000 percent. Because of increasing poverty,
highunemployment and rapidly falling living standards, an estimated 800,000 people
emigrated to findbetter prospect^.^


1. The earthquake registered6.9 on the Richter scale. The actual number of fatalities was suppressed as it
reflected badly on Soviet preparednessand building standards -Armenian officials indicated probablefatalities
were inthe range50-65,000.
2. A cease-firewas mediatedby Russia inJuly 1994 among Azerbaijan, Karabakh, and Armenia. A permanent
peace settlementhas not been agreed andNagorno-Karabakh is under Armenian administration.
3. The incidenceof poverty roseto 55 percent in 1996 and 1997. The Gini coefficient declined from 0.30 in
1990to 0.57 in 1998199 (the Gini coefficient would be zero for perfect income equality and one for total
inequality). OED, Country Assistance Evaluation, 2003,

                                                       2


4.       Despite these setbacks, government initiated some reforms before initiating
membershipinthe international financial institutions (IFIs). Before 1993, most commodity
prices, withthe exception ofbread, were freed. The government broke upthe collective farms
andtransferred property andlandto rural residents, andliberalizedretail andproducerprices
for agricultural goods. Early steps were takento privatize most housing.These efforts received
an impetusin 1994, following the Nagorno-Karabakh ceasefire, from a comprehensivereform
program supportedby the international community -its primary aim was fiscal stabilization,
overhaul ofthe tax system, and substantialexpenditure cuts. The EarthquakeReconstruction
Project was included inthis first round ofBank assistance (FY93-94).

5.       Armenia has made goodprogressinits transition from a centrally plannedeconomy to
amarket economy and GDP growth is now amongthe highestinthe FSUcountries. Although
reformprogress slowed after 1997, itacceleratedagainfrom 2000 witha focus onimproving
thebusiness environment andimplementingbankruptcy andliquidation proceedings.The
growth of small and medium-sizedprivate firms, which inmanytransition economies makea
major contributionto employment growth, is hinderedby inadequate enforcement of contracts,
unavailability of adequate financing for private firms, andslow developmentof adequate
government capacity to support a marketeconomy.

6.       Armenia continues to have the highest income inequality among the countries o fthe
Europe and Central Asia (ECA) R e g i ~ nThe incidence of poverty was estimated at 55
                                                    . ~
percent in 1996and 1998.5Recent 2001 data indicate that poverty has declinedby seven
percentagepoints -but still remainedhighat 48 percent; extreme poverty has fallen from 27
percent to 20 percent. Confronting poverty and improving social indicators remain a key
challenge, as fiscal austerity will continue to limit the resourcesavailable for social sector
expenditures, although recent efforts at improving targeting have helpedease the plight of the
poor.


2.       The Project

7.       Objectives. The EarthquakeReconstructionProject (ERP) was designedto help
Armenia alleviate pressing economic and social problems inthe housing sector and provide
an opportunity to implementbasic reforms inhousing and infrastructure. Eventhough five
years had elapsed since the earthquake, government hadbeenunable to complete
reconstruction without international assistancefor the reasonsdiscussed above. Surveys
commissioned during 1995 showed that over 100,000 people lived inabout 24,000 units o f
emergency accommodation called domiks, 87 percent o fwhichwere located inthe cities of
Gumri, Vanadzor, and Spitak.


4. World Bank, "Armenia PovertyProfile in2001," p. 24. The Gini coefficient ofearnings went from 0.296 in
1991to 0.486 in2000; the latter figure, while high, is only slightly above other CIS-7 republics(Falkingham, p. 8).
5. Comparison of 1996poverty data with that collected later in the decade is difficult due to differences in the
definitions and measuresused.
6. The term domik is Russianfor "little house." Domiks are typically freight containers, railway wagons or oil
tanks convertedinto single family accommodation.

                                                      3


8.       The project hadthree main objectives that emphasized completion o f unfinished
apartments and repair of damaged apartment blocks, reconstructiono f infrastructure to
support employment creation, and longer-term planning. Itwas expected that 2,000
households would receive permanent shelter and 2,500 workers benefitfrom employment in
the reconstructed factory shells. About 500,000 people were expected to benefit from better
sanitary facilities. Table 1lists the components to achieve these objectives and costs.

9.       The ERF' was approvedfor an IDA credit ofUS$28.6 million or 61 percent oftotal
appraised project costs o f US$46 million, which include US$17.3 million insunk costs
representing government's investmentininfrastructure and partially completed housing.

Table 1: Earthquake Reconstruction Project: Objectives, Components and Costs
           Objectives                                 Components                           Costs (US$, million)
                                                                                          Appraisal Actual
1. Provide improved housing     0 Completionof unfinishedapartments                       4.67      8.52
and living conditions to        0 Repairktrengthening of damaged buildings                1.53      6.73
residents of the Earthquake     0 Landdevelopmentandconstructionof serviced               2.38      0.63
Zone (EZ)                           plots and starter housesfor single families and self-
                                    help expansion
                                 0 Provisionof bathhousesintemporary areas                1.17      1.27
                                 U Communityfacilities                                    0.60      2.96
                                0 Completionof selectedwater supply andsewerage           1.50      2.27
                                    in subprojects in Spitak,Vanadzor, Stepanovan

2. Reconstructinfrastructure    0 Completefactory shellsfor existing profitable           7.04      6.92
supporting employment               industries                                                  }
creation
3. Developa longer-term         0 Procurementand constructionsupervision
sustainable program for         0 Housingreform & policyand regionaldevelopment           0.20
rehabilitation in the earthquake    in EZ
zone                            0 The EarthquakeEngineeringCenter                         0.18      0.41
                                0 Evaluationof first phaseprogram                         0.35

                                 Physical and Price Contingencies                         6.84
                                 Total Cost                                               28.62      29.71


IMPLEMENTING          AGENCIES

10.      The Ministryo fEconomy (MoE) hadthe primary responsibility for the earthquake
reconstructionefforts and policy reform. A project preparation unitwithinM o E designed the
project after which it became the Project Implementation Unit(PIU). The Director o f the PIU
reportedto the MoE, and all PIUemployees were consultants independent o f government.
The PIUemployed some internationalconsultants inthe initial stages o fthe project to advise
on procurement, project planning, and supervision. Inaddition, specialist advisors, provided
through bilateral aid programs, worked closely withthe PIU's earthquake reconstruction
team -France, and the UnitedStates' USAID and Peace Corps were particularly helpfulin
this respect. Themunicipalities o fGumri, Spitak, andVanadzor interacteddirectly withthe
PIUon the schedulingand design o f local reconstruction efforts.

                                                      4


DESIGN    ISSUES

11.      A number of riskswere clearly identified.Becauseofthe regional political situation,
the highest risk was that aresumptionof the blockade would disruptthe economy,
jeopardizing counterpart funding andprogresstoward a market-basedeconomy. Itwould also
hinderthe import of essentialbuildingmaterials.

12.      Preparation started inthe fall of 1992soonafter Armenia joined the Bank. The
challenge was enormous as reconstruction efforts had stopped in 1991. The appraisalteam's
first task was to develop aviable planfrom ahost of proposalsput forward by competing
clients at the central, regional, and municipal levels. The Prime Ministerrequestedthat
factory shell completion should be a major goal of the project, thus enabling resumption of
exports andproductionas inputsto other Armenian industries.Local officials inSpitak and
Gumri, backedupbythe center, proposedcompletion ofprivatelyowned single-family
houses that had stalled from lack of materials and credit for homeowners. Others felt
apartment blocks were the priority. There was also pressure to alleviate the privationofthe
85 percent of residents living indomiks while the project works were beingcompleted -thus
mobile bathhousesandbetterwater supply and sanitation were proposed. And there were
differingviews about the trade-off among building quality and coverage and the role of self-
helplabor-intensive constructioncomparedwith the traditional Soviet machine- andenergy-
intensive construction, the use of credit or grants, andthe balancebetweensingle-family
houses and apartment blocks.

 13.      The Bank, inline with its sectorpolicy on housing that emphasizedprivatizationof
domestic housing, added a condition that project beneficiaries should contribute to housing
costs. This was regarded as an important condition for the credit and sector reform ingeneral.
While the government resisted wide-scale privatization, voluntary privatizationwas
introduced in 1993, albeit at minimal cost to beneficiaries.' Evenso, all new apartments
constructed inthe earthquake zone were allocated to families bythe state andthis continued
throughout the project. It was recognized also that there was a conflict betweenBank policy
that requiredhousing beneficiaries to pay, andthe inability o fthose most inneedto do so
(unemployment inthe worst-affected areas was 70 percent or more). Thus the Bank could
only reasonably seek to recover incremental costs to complete apartments and government
agreedthat beneficiaries should pay a contribution. The final arrangementwas that Bank
funds should be usedto finance three-quarters ofcompletion costs, andthat beneficiaries
should finishthe apartments at their own cost.


7. In June 1993 the 1989Housing Privatization Law was repealedand replacedby a new law on Privatization of
State Housing Stock that took effect in September 1993.The new law allowed voluntary privatization of state
housing, the only cost being a small fee (equal to two month's minimum state salary) to offset administrative
costs. A Law on Condominiums was proposedat the same time to createprivate owners' associationsand
transfer responsibility for housing servicesfrom the public to the private sectors.
8. GovernmentDecree N147 on March 1992 laid out the criteria for allocating housing units inthe earthquake
zone basedon a submissionby the Executive Committee of Gumri City. Criteriawere fairly inclusive and
included invalids, families who had lost a breadwinner, Heroic mothers, Heroes, recipients of Glory, Work
Glory, and Serving for the Motherland inthe Military forces ofthe USSRawards, partisansinWW 11, former
Soviet pensioners, etc.

                                                      5


14.      Criteria for selection of permanenthousing were agreedquickly. These included
locationinviable neighborhoodswith functioning community facilities, near-completed
infrastructure and buildings, and ahigh level of earthquakeresistance. Additionally, the
project focused onmaintenance planning and a master planaddressingthe role of the private
sector.

15.      A reviewof water supply and sanitation needs inGumri, Vanadzor, Spitak, and
Stepanavanquickly concluded that few ofthe proposedor semi-complete schemes would
qualify for Bank financing. Prime reasons were that most hadbeen designedto over-
dimensioned Soviet standards to meetexcessiveper capita water consumption rates andpaid
little attention to recurrent costs, assumingthat highenergy subsidies would continue.
Accordingly, as the Charkali gravity supply scheme for Spitak (population 25,000) hadthe
fewest problems, this was short listed for inclusion inthe project - subject to independent
and external engineering review.

16.      The project was fully appraisedwithinsevenmonths because ofthe availability of
US$1.O million Japanese Grant Funding. But Boardpresentationwas delayed by a
resumption o fhostilities inNgorno-KarabakhinJune 1993. Becauseofthe high-risk
situation, implementation underthe project was split into two phases. The first phase (lasting
untilMay 1994) was to address immediate needs ofshelter andemployment andwas to focus
on completion of nearly finishedapartments and initiation of factory shell con~truction.~         It
also includedpilot testing of single-family housing and community bathhouses, which, if
successful would be expanded inthe secondphase. At the end of the first phase, a mid-term
review would provide a means ofreorientation and fine-tuning ofproject objectives.

17.      Although the creditwas negotiatedinearly July 1993, ittook seven months before
Board approval. It was feared that the resumedconflict couldjeopardize project
implementation andraise questions aboutthe fungibility of Bank assistance. The Bankwas
concernedalso that early lending to Armenia wouldbe seen also as discrimination against
Azerbaijan that was evenmore adversely affected bythe refugee problem. And because ofthe
uncertainsecurity situation, the Bankfelt it was prematureto producea CAS to provide a
framework for assistance. Eventually, the Board approvedthe IDA credit, Armenia's first, in
February1994anditbecame effective inApril.

IMPLEMENTATION

18.      Civil works comprised98 percento f expendituresandmost components disbursed
almost twice the appraisalprojections. The additional funds to finance the enlargedcivil works
program came from redistribution withinthe credit amount and SDR appreciation equivalent to
US$1.75 million. An additional US$0.6 million accrued from contractorpenalties-although
the amount realized was smaller due to litigation and seizureofproperty rather thanpayment in
cash. At mid-termreview technical assistance was substantially reducedwhenit became
apparentthat local capacity was muchbetter than assumed, and parallel bilateral programs,
particularly USAIDprograms, were financing some ofthe sector policy work.

9. Factoryshells constructionwas a major project component and focused on completingdamaged or partially
rebuiltfactories that housedviable industrythat would guaranteeemployment.

                                              6


19.     Implementation proceededwith few problems. Procurementwas less of a problem
than anticipated mainly because ofthe small-scalenature ofthe work and early acceptanceof
the Bank's procurement procedures. Evenso, initially there were problems over
specifications and poor documentation, andthe lack of contractors' experience with
competitive bidding, whichledto widely divergent tender prices. Severalcontracts were
rebidandmost problems were solved inthe first 18months. Selection and financial
justification for factory shell completion proved to be more difficult than anticipated because
of poor financial and business data, andmost of the work was delayed. Similar delays
occurred inthe bathhouse program because municipalities argued for fixed downtown
locations instead o fthe mobile facilities proposed. As a result, project closing was extended
by a year to allow completion ofconstructioncontracts.


3.      Results

Objective 1:Provideimprovedhousing and livingconditions

20.     Temporary housing, domiks, comprised muchof the residential housing stock in
earthquake cities even after the project. This comprised 90 percent o f Spitak's population
(5,000 families or 20,000 people), athirdo fthe Gumri's (18,000 families or 72,000 people),
and 9 percent o fVanadzor's (3,800 households or 5,200 people).

21.     Duringthe period 1995-97, the Bank-supported project was the largest provider of
newandreconstructedbuilding space inthe earthquakezone, accounting for almost ahalf
(Figure 1). Inthe first two years, the Bank's assistance provided the majority of space, about
60 percent, falling to 30 percent in 1997. Overall, 2,857 apartments were completed
replacing 11percent of all the housing stock lost inthe earthquake.

22.     The private sector accountedfor
30 percent of housing. This was mostly
small-scale, household-level                           Figure 1: Earthquake Zone Housing
investment financed from private                       Production 1995-97, `000 sq meters
sources -inmany cases from expatriate
Armenians living inthe former Soviet
Union.
                                                150
23.     The All-ArmeniaFund,
financed by the Armenia `diaspora', the
state andlocalmunicipalities, and               100
UNHCR accountedfor the balance.
While the total areaproducedwas
relatively small (20 percent), the              50

quality of finishwas muchhigher than
the Bank's, andbeneficiaries didnot              0
have to make any financial                    I       World    Privnto Alldnonin State  Local  UNHCR

contribution. Conversely, the Bank                    Bank                Fund

                                             Source: Ministryo f Housing, Republicof Armenia

                                                 7


requiredbeneficiaries to contribute 25 percent of incremental costs. These differing policies
created acceptability problems for the Bank-financed units (paras. 25-29).

24.      Unfinishedapartmentswere successfullycompleted.Thiswas the largest
component and 1,759 units were finished, 13 percent more than planned at appraisal.
Average cost per apartment was $4,844 comparedwith the appraisal estimate of $2,999 -the
higher cost was due to a smaller proportion than expectedof `almost-finished' apartments
and increased unit costs for materials. There was also atrade-off on some o fthe Bank's
selection criteria (para. 14). Most structurally soundbutuncompleted works were inthe new
Soviet-style housing estates onthe periphery of cities, not inthe town centers or evennear
domik settlements, which occupieddowntown parks andbuilding lots. Thus Bank-financed
apartments were mostly inisolated newdevelopmentswhere few people livedand most
communal and public services were poor or absent.

25.      Ensuringoccupancyofcompletedapartmentswas a problembecause of
conflictinghousingpolicies.Peoplemovingto new apartmentswould losethe benefits
associatedwith domiks - a small garden, government allowances, andNGO support
programs, including helpwith fuel andfood.

26.      A World Bank survey also found that delays inoccupying apartmentswas because
allocation by the municipality laggedbehindconstruction." The survey indicated that almost
half the new owners moved inwithin 6 months and 71 percent withina year (Figure 2). A
minority, 18 percent, took two or more years to move. Once allocated, delays occurred
becauseo f time to finishthe apartment,
financial reasons, reluctanceto move away
from community services inthe domik areas in                 Figure 2: Occupancy of World Bank Units

winter, and during school term.

27.      A further disincentive to occupancy                            a Housing Unit
was the Bank's policy beneficiaries made a 25
percent co-payment either incashor kind.
Almost athirdwere unable to make a down
payment for `ownership' registration even
though this was very small - 12,000 Drams or
US$24. Some (22 percent) just didnot have
the cash. Others (15 percent) didnot know they
hadto pay, and athird statedthat there was a
lack of official documentation-these latter                   1988     1990     1992    1994 1996  1998
problems indicating institutional problems and
informationasymmetry.
                                                     Source: World Bank Survey, 1997
28.      Levels of satisfaction also delayed
relocation. Bank-financed apartmentswere made habitable to a modest level of finish,
economizing on items seen as luxuries-for example, newowners hadto installbaths,


10.The WorldBank survey was undertakenin 1997 on projectcompletion by the Universityo f Armenia and
included296 beneficiaries.

                                                  8


complete wiring, put indouble-glazing, andprovide internal doors." And 85 percent said it
was unfair to leave finishing work to beneficiaries. Where the owners could not raisethe
cash, the municipality gave loans to complete apartments, butto fairly low standards. In
contrast, similar works by the state andNGOs deliveredfully finishedunits. While three
quarters o f new owners had new apartmentsthat were bigger than those they hadbefore the
earthquake, 60 percent said the internal fixtures were of poorer quality. Almost 40 percent
felt dissatisfied by their new apartments, the primary reasons being unfinishedunits, bad
construction, and lack of central heating andwater.

29.     Two years into implementation, averageoccupancy was 50 percent (range across four
towns 30-70 percent), risingto 74 percent (range 51-90percent) on completion inthe third
year. Lowest occupancy was inGumriandVanadzor because ofthe remotenessand poor
public facilities (markets, schools, transport etc.,) inthe isolatednewtown areas. Highest
occupancy was inSpitak where most of the original buildings hadbeen destroyed. In
September2003, at the time ofthe evaluation mission, all the building works repairedor
completed by the Bankwere fully occupied.

30.     The component to repair and strengthenearthquake-damagedbuildings,mostly
intown centers,was successful.Unlikethe apartmentcompletion component, it aimed to
allow families vacated from damagedbuildings to returnto their former homes. The 1,061
completed were double those planned but at greater unit cost - $5,407 comparedwith $3,000
anticipated at appraisal.

31.      The single-familystarter-housesand servicedplotscomponentwas unsuccessful.
Accordingto the SAR, this component was to support central and local governments' wishto
pilot initiatives to foster private home building andtest affordable designs." According to
government's completion report "at project preparation, local authorities, government
representativesandPIUspecialistsbelievedthe experiment would not ~ucceed.'"~Even so,
260 units were planned and 144were to be tested under Phase I. first problem arose
                                                                         The
when Gumrimunicipalityrequestedthat its allocation be cancelled-after tendershad been
released-because there hadbeenno interest inthe 217 plots andhouse foundations it had
putonthe market independently,eventhough the plots were offered free of cost, the only
stipulation beingthat the new owners hadto finance the houses. InVanadzor, the main
contractor defaulted and the contractshad to be rebid. Eventually only 80 units -mostly
starter `core' units, foundations, and a few complete two-storied houses-were made
available for allocation. At the endo f the project, only 37 were completed at an average cost
of $16,959, the most expensive $18,000 -far beyond the means of most Armenian~.'~                The


11. Would-beownersput a highpremiumonbaths becausethey providedessential water storageto mitigate
unreliablewater supplies.
12. Eveninthe Soviet eraabout 30 percent o f homes remainedinprivate ownership, particularlyinruralareas.
All buildingcodes andregulations, however, were aimedprincipallyat large-scaleurbanpublic housingin40-
unitapartmentblocks.
13. ICR, Annex B, page3.
14. Componentsavings of US1.75 millionwere transferredto apartmentcompletion, and repair and
strengtheningactivities.

                                                        9


assessment mission visited some areas and found abandoned foundation sites. Apart from
affordability, another disincentive was the uncertain status o f land ownership andtitle.-The
project was only able to offer "long-term transferable occupancy rights," which was a new
concept and not understoodby beneficiaries.

32.      Multiple-occupancyprivateventures haddifficultiestoo. A newthree-story
apartment buildingwas to be constructed inGumriwith a 40 percent equity contribution
from would-be owners." But higher-than-expected costs meant that several participants
withdrew and hadtheir deposits returned. Inthe circumstances, the Bank and municipality
agreed to limit construction to only two floors.

33.      The bathhouses component was successfulafter redesign.Originally intendedto
provide 54 mobile bathhouses to relieve hardship inthe domik areas, designand contractual
problems delayed implementation. Inthe elapsed time, the city municipalities o f Gumri,
Spitak, andVanadzor decided that they would rather buildnew or reconstruct central
bathhouse located inthe city centers, and operate them under concession arrangements.
There were three reasons for this. First, many officials felt that the Bank funding should be
spent on permanent fixtures that would helprejuvenate city centers: bathhouses are very
mucha community meetingplace. Second, providing bathhouses to domik communities
would provide adverse incentives for inhabitants to relocate to rehabilitated buildings. Third,
the cities were anxious to clear the domiks from central areas to reclaim city parks and
gardens for civic use.

34.      Elevenbathhouses were finally constructed at an average cost of US$115,636 each
andprovedto bevery popular. Inaddition, the concept o fseismic isolationwas piloted, using
bathhouses, for the first time inArmenia.l6On completion, the Bankprovided technical
assistance via the American University o f Armenia to assist municipalities indesigning and
lettinglease/concession contracts for private operators. While a concession was agreedfor
Vanadzor, Gumri, and Spitak municipalities continue to operate their bathhouses.

35.      Communityfacilitieswere successfullyprovided.This was a demand-led exercise
and each cityhad its own priorities for reconstructionwork. A library and stadium were built
inGumriandanhistoric community center reconstructed -eventhroughtheBankfelt there
was nojustification for the stadium. Vanadzor received two hospitals, a municipal building, a
kindergarten, and a telephone exchange, while Spitak acquired a new school and sports
facility. Four other schools were built inthe region and the total number o f student places
created was 2,598.

15. 42a Pobedy St, Gumri - earlier listed as 24a Hakhtanaki Street, Gumri. Total cost was estimatedto be
$276,000.
16. Seismic isolation is designedto isolate buildings from earthquakeshock waves traveling through the earth's
crust and was first usedin 1970s.Buildings are elevatedabovetheir foundations on bearingsthat minimizethe
seismic energytransferredfrom the ground to the building. Inconsequence, buildings do not shake themselves
apart. The project piloted elastometric bearingsthat has alternating layers of rubber and steel. The stiff steel
platesprovide lateral constraint on each rubber layer when the bearing is subjectedto vertical load, but does not
constrainthe horizontal shearingdeformation ofthe rubber layers.This producesa bearing that is very stiff in
the vertical direction and very flexible inthe horizontal direction. Consequently, structurewill be decoupled
from the damagingcomponents ofthe ground acceleration.

                                              10




tenants filled the seismic isolation gaps,       Box 1: Base Isolationfrom EarthquakesWorks
minor damage occurred- clearly building         ProfessorNazaretyanreportedthe results ofhis
occupants were unaware o fthe function o f      research: "During the 1999 Spitak earthquake
the isolation gaps. Since the project, the      with an intensity of 5-6, the tenants ofthe
total number o fbuildingsseismically             ShahumyanStreet building inSpitak andthe
isolated has increased to 14, the most          Yerevan #149 building inVanadzor did not feel
important beinga large secondary school in      the earthquake, while people inneighboring
Vanadzor. The school's Director described       building ranoutside."
to the OED mission how isolators were
installed without having to vacate the          AZG AmeniaDaily No. 29. November 21,2001

buildinganddisruptteaching -a global first.

37.     Water supplywas improvedinthree cities.Emergency replacement of water
supplypipelines to Gumri, Spitak, andVanadzor guaranteed suppliesbenefitedmore than
200,000 consumers. Duringthe designphase for these works, an engineering survey and
needs assessment was conducted by Bank-appointed consultants. This showed that most of
the municipal water supply systems were inapoor state ofrepair partly due to deferred
maintenance, partly due to earthquake damage. Much o fthe sewerage systems had been
severely damaged inthe earthquake. Clearly, the amount o f investment required greatly
exceeded that available under the ERP.

38.     Inconsequence, the projectwas able to only amelioratewater supplyproblems, and
not significantly improve system efficiency andperformance. Broken water distribution
pipeswere replaced (many to better design standards) or rerouted and connections to
completed housing installed. Evenso, at project completion, more than 50 percent o fpiped
water was lost as a result o f accumulated poor maintenance. Only 27 percent o fthose
surveyed had continuous pipedwater; and 44 percent hadwater for fewer than 2 hours a day.
At project completion itwas expected that more detailedfeasibility studies andplanning
would be embraced under the Bank's Municipal Services Project scheduled for appraisal by
1998. The key concern was to make service provision financially sustainable. Whenthe
US$35 million MSP was approved inmid-1998 for a US$30 million credit, its water supply
and sanitation focus was on Yerevan with only a small component (US$3.5 million) directed
at preparation o f other water sector projects throughout Armenia. As a result, to date there
has been little progress on improving service delivery and efficiency.

                                                     11


Objective 2: Reconstruct infrastructure supporting employment creation

39.      The factory shell componentwas a failure and few long-term jobs were created.
This component was to construct seven factories that would account for almost a quarter o f
project costs and collectively create an additional 2,500 permanent jobs. The objective was to
support several factories that had managedto resume limitedoperations after the earthquake
but were believedto be constrained by either damaged or incomplete buildings.Each
enterprise assisted was supposed to repay the incremental construction costs under fairly
liberal conditions.'' The factory shells were to be the property o fthe enterprises, but inthe
event o f default on loan repayment the government had the right to take over these facilities.
Initially four enterprises were appraised andthese indicatedthat economic rates ofreturn
(ERR)were between 12and 70 percent.

40.      By completion ofthe project 10 enterprises hadbeen assisted at a cost o fUS$6.9
million and about 200 to 300jobs created. None o fthe loans has beenrepaid. However, as
far as this evaluation could determine, only two o f these enterprises are inoperation, one in
Spitak, the other inGumri. The remainder became bankrupt and non-functional primarily
because the products they manufacturedwere strongly linkedto an expectation that the
commercial links with the former Soviet Unionwould remain intact and that goods could be
readily exported once the economy recovered. Inthe event, this was not the case. Another
difficulty was that mucho fthe manufacturingcapability was built to outdated Soviet
standards for whichthere was no demand. There was also no funding or expertise available
to update production technology. However, the American University o f Armenia was
contracted by the PIUto assist factory management inmodernizing accounting and
management techniques.

41.      While the PIUwas aware ofthese shortcomings, there was very strong government
and local municipal pressure to continue with this component. For example, inSpitak three
enterprises were assisted at a cost o f US$1.5 million and only the Spitak Sewing Factory
continues to operate. This factory was privatized in 1995 and employs 186 staff, 180 o f
whom are women, and makes militaryuniforms andsimilar clothing for export. The factory
complex has an area o f about 1 hectare but less thanhalf i s used. The Director complained to
the OED mission that heating costs are highbecause poor insulation was not rectified during
renovation, and that as a result, he cannot afford to properly maintain the building-from the
outside it looks like an abandoned builing.

Objective 3: Develop a longer-term sustainable program for rehabilitation

42.      Reforming procurement and construction supervision was successful. The project
introduced local competitive biddingand transparent financial management o f contracts.
These have now become the norm inArmenia. Two buildingcontractors interviewed by
OED explainedthat the transparent procedures introducedunder the project enabled them to
compete successfully for contracts, and how enforcement o f contract penalty clauses
improved the quality of completed work.

17. The loans were denominatedinUS$, carried a 15-yearmaturity including athree-year grace period, and a
variable interest rate 0.5% above the World Bank lending rate.

                                            12


43.    Housingpolicyreformswere only slowlyimplemented.Government gave this a
muchlower priority than civil works andconstruction activities, as did the Bank.Other
development partners, especially USAID, were quite keento take up the challenge anddid.
Even so, the government approvedin 1995the Laws on Collateral andRealProperty,
building on the 1993 Housing Privatization Law andthe 1991LandPrivatization Law and
Land Code. A draft Housing Policy Action Planwas produced at mid-termreview as
scheduled, and initiated setting up of condominium associations.

44.     Condominiumassociations.Voluntary conversion of abuildingto a condominium
andregistration underthe 1991Law of Condominiums was slow. Nationally, 37,967 units
were registered betweenNovember 1995 andMarch 1997under condominium associations,
and less than one percent were inthe project area. InGumri, only three buildings with 54
apartment units were registered, inVanadzor four buildings with216 apartmentunits.
Conversely, inYerevan 536 buildings with 31,35 1unitswere registered.

45.    The 1997Bank sample survey foundthat lack of experienceandfinancial resources
constrained effective condominium management inthe earthquake zone. Initially itwas
possible for one condominium associationto cover more than one building, butthe law was
changedinJune 1996 to include a provisionthat eachbuilding is to be registered as an
independentcondominium association.Condominiums find it difficult to be financially self-
sufficient because homeowners pay only a small amount for maintenance, far below real
costs. And higher fees are precluded by municipalities' social concerns, low levels of income
andhighlevels ofpoverty. Thus, condominium associations either rely on external resources
or cannot undertake maintenance.

46.     Beneficiaries' feedback indicatedthat insufficient knowledge about homeowners' and
condominiums' responsibilities hadbeen disseminatedthroughthe project. For example, more
thanhalf(57 percent) ofthose surveyeddidnot evenknow what acondominium was. Only 17
percentwho are members of a condominium associationthought that condominiums are
necessary anduseful. Morethan a third saidthat condominiums are not useful, and halfhadno
opinion. Around atenthof householdssaidthat peopledo not havemoney so there is no point
incondominiums. Another 10percentthoughtthatthe state shouldtake careofsuchthings.

47.     Although the concept of homeownership is ingrained, most householdswere
unaware of their newresponsibilities regarding communal property. None interviewedwas
aware that homeowners collectively owned the building. More than athirdhadno idea about
the ownership ofthe building. A quarter thought that their buildingwas owned by the
municipality. Inconsequence, more than halfof those interviewedstatedthat nobody was
responsible for maintenance and cleaning of common spaces. Only a quarter suggestedeither
they or the condominium as responsible. Despite this, almost all interviewedsaidthat either
they or another family member ownedthe individual unit.

48.     The EarthquakeEngineering Center was establishedand is working effectively in
buildingregional partnerships and sponsoring technical symposia. InSpitak, the Earthquake
Information Center, established inthe basement o f the base-isolatedbuilding (para. 36), was
fairly busywith visiting school parties during the OED mission's visit.

                                                       13


4.       Ratings

Outcomes
49.      The outcome o fthe project i s rated as moderately satisfactory compared with the
ICR's rating o f satisfactory. Table 3 shows how OED derived this rating from the
performance under each objective (for more details see Annex B).Excellent performance on
the physical reconstruction o f housing and facilities was offset by the problems created by
the Bank's beneficiary cofinance conditions, inadequate attentionto long-term planning, and
the low efficacy and efficiency o f the employment objective that accounted for almost a
quarter o f project costs. And it was these latter problems that caused the modest downgrading
o f the ICR's outcome rating.

Table 3: Ratings for Achievement of Major Project Objectives

               Objectives                   Relative    Relevance     Efficacy    Efficiency    OUTCOME
                                          Importance

 1. Provide improvedhousingandliving
 conditionsto residentsofthe Earthquake      High          High      Substantial   Modest       Satisfactory
 Zone (EZ)
 2. Developa longer-termsustainable          High          High      Substantial  Substantial    Moderately
 programfor rehabilitation inthe EZ                                                             Satisfactory

 3. Reconstruct infrastructuresupporting   Substantial     High      Negligible   Negligible       Highly
 employmentcreation:                                                                           Unsatisfactory


    OVERALL RATING OF PROJECT                           Substantial  Substantial   Modest        Moderately
                                                                                                 Satisfactory




Relevance

50.      Relevance i s ratedhigh. Armenia i s highly urbanized (70 percent live incities).
Meeting basic housing needs inthe earthquake zone, reforming housing policy and
generatingemployment were highpriorities for government. Given the dire state o f
economy, highunemployment and underemployment, lack o fprivate capital, and no market-
based housing finance system willing to assist rehousing o fthe domik population, the
government hadto rely on external sources o f finance includingthe Bank, Germany, the All
Armenia Fund, and UNHCR. Although financing for more than halfo f houses built after
1995 came from the private sector, this targeted the higher-income segment o f society." In



18. Private investment (accounting for 48 percent o f all new housing 1994-97) was mainly financed at the
individual level for small-scale construction. Housing prices to average annual household income for a 55
square meter apartment ranged from 7 to 17- in Russia, similar apartments cost 5-13 times annual household
income while inTurkey the range was 5-6 (Petersen. 1997. Informal Draft Sector Note: The Armenia Housing
Sector and Earthquake Zone Housing Issues. The World Bank).

                                                 14


consequence, the project was pro-poor and was highlyrelevant to the Bank's poverty
alleviation objectives.

5 1,     The project predated the first Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Armenia (1995)
butwas highly relevantto the major problems identifiedinthe 1993Country Economic
Memorandum. The 1997 CAS reaffirmed relevance through three o f its four objectives
(poverty alleviation and support for better social protection, infrastructure rehabilitation; and
reforms to complete the transition to a market economy andpromote private sector
development).

Efficacy

52.      Overall efficacy i s rated as substantial. More than the plannedhousing stock was
reconstructed and it was an improvement over existing domik accommodation. A viable and
transparent private-sector construction industrywas successfully facilitated through the
project, and communities received improved facilities, water supply, and community bathing
facilities. The efficacy o f the two components dealing with private housing and factory shells
was negligible. First because the institutional framework and incentives for private housing
was poorly understood and misalignedwith financial realties o f Armenia inthe early to mid-
1990s. Second, the factory shell component was not the most efficient way o f providing
employment giventhe adverse macroeconomic situation, the collapse o f regional markets
and trade inthe post-Soviet era, factory management's lack o f commercial experience, and
outdated products.

Efficiency

53.      Overall efficiency is ratedmodest. The efficiency o f the first objective is rated
modest. The Bank chose the most cost-efficient means to provide housing, focusing on
completion and strengthening apartments andreducing the highcost o f new buildingwhen it
was clear there was no real market for this product (Table 4). Evenso, the actual costs were
62 percent greater than appraisal estimate for apartment completion and 111percent greater
for strengthening apartments inblocks. The cost increase was due primarilyto building
material expenses that were higher thanexpected and to the fact that once the apartments
requiring the least work were completed, costs for the remaining apartments became
increasingly expensive. While the efficiency o f the strengthening component i s rated
substantial, the completion component i s only rated modest. This i s because the Bank's
policies for beneficiary contribution and quality o f finish were out o f line with alternatives
produced by other agencies, delaying completion and occupation o f completed units.In
practice, local municipalities lent money to beneficiaries for completion and made no attempt
to seek repayment. Thus the Bank's policy on beneficiary contributionproved to be
ineffective and inefficient. The acceptance o f demand-led redesign o f the community and
bathhouse facilities showed little sensitivityto cost-effectiveness and included non-essential
items such as a sports stadium. Although efficiency o fthe second objective i s rated
substantial, this i s effectively traded off by the negligible efficiency o f the third objective to
create employment. Thus, the overall rating i s modest.

                                                           15


Table 4: The Bankmostlyfinancedthe mostcost-effectivehousingsectors at highercost

Investment Type                      Resale                Completion               Strengthening          New Build
Unit Cost $/m2                       $45                   $58                      $92                    $192
Cost /apartment Planned                                    $3,000                   $3,000                 $9,142

" Actual                                                   $6,055a'                 $6,341                 $16,959
Number of Units Planned                                    1,559                    510                    260

" Actual                                                   1,759                    1.061                  37

Sources: ICR, Table Annex 8 and The Urban Institute, 1998.
a/ the Bank's cost was $4,844 which covered 75 percent of total costs; beneficiaries were responsible for the balance.


InstitutionalDevelopment

54.      The overall institutional developmentofthe project impact is ratedmodest. While the
facilitation o fprivate sector contracting andthe Earthquake Engineering Center was very
successfL11, government andproject management's focus on construction ledto neglect of
housing policy andreform. Thus, there was only modest informationand outreachto
beneficiaries on key policy initiatives, such as condominium associations andbeneficiary
contribution to housing costs (see paras. 28 and44-47), and little attention to systemic sector
reform issues. Neither outstanding housing loans or interest owed to municipalities for
project housing were collected. By 2002, U SAID had independentlyfollowed through on
housing policy reform and had introducedHousing PurchaseCertificates to facilitate a
transition to a private housing market once property rights were registered. All rehabilitated
property -except completions financed by the Bank -was quickly registered.Paradoxically,
Bank-assisted apartment completions were encumberedwith the loandebt that disqualified
them from privatization. Thisroadblock was removed only whenthe municipalities,
following a USAIDrequest to government, finally forgave the outstanding debt inearly 2002
despite the Bank's disagreement (para 58). The government's positionwas that it was better
to move aheadwith its housing sector policy on privatization(thus relievinga substantial
public sector maintenanceburden), than pursuea large number ofold debtswhose collection
would not be cost-effe~tive.'~        Furtherjustification was that the debtswere inequitable (all
other non-Bank apartments completions hadbeenfully subsidized) andremoval of legal
covenants onproperty deeds would speed privatization.

Sustainability

55.      Sustainability is rated likely for the housing and community componentsthat
accountedfor the bulk of project investment.Ownership o fhousing units is currentlybeing
establishedwith USAIDassistanceand inthe 6 years since the Bank beneficiary survey
(para. 27), government and project beneficiaries have become weaned from the ideathat
housing i s a public good. Housing units inspectedby the assessment team were adequately
maintained. The only project component that has unlikely sustainability i s the factory shell
component.


19. There were about 1,500 loans spread over several municipalities, typical loans were about $1,200.

                                               16


BankPerformance

56.     Bank performance is rated satisfactory butwith qualifications. Project design met
basic housing needs andinitiated the start of aprivate sector building industry.Appraisal
took place under very difficult economic andphysicalcircumstances andthe two-phase
approach adoptedhelpedto mitigate some of the risks. Therewere, however, anumber of
shortcomings not helpedby four changes of task managerand changes of sector management
inthe region. This mayexplainwhy anumberoflow-efficiency activities -suchas the
factory shell and private housing components-continued long after itbecame clear these
were either financially inappropriate andpremature given the state of the economy.
Similarly, cost-sharing was prematurebefore sufficient development of awareness, rationale,
andlocal institutions, andappearedinsensitiveto high(40%+) levels of local unemployment
and incomes mostly at or belowthe poverty line. Fortunately, the Bank realized the gravity
o fthese issues at project completion (1997) and took steps to redress them.

57.     The Bank-initiated sector reviewof housing policy inthe earthquakezone under the
umbrellaof its MunicipalDevelopment Project ledto anewhousing strategy in 1998to meet
the needs of 12,000 families that remaineddisplaced.A keyfeature ofthe strategy is the `3R
Program' : redistribution using housing vouchers, renovation using improvement grants to
complete works, and reinforcement of damagedandempty buildings. This strategy was
adoptedby the government and is currently almost fully implemented,utilizing $20 million
from U SAID, and grants from the LincyFoundation, HuntsmannInternational, Catholic
Relief Services, and other NGOs. Thus, many o f the initial ideas floated by the Bank in 1994
finally came to fruition almost a decade later -but only after significant technical assistance
by others to fully understandthe issues anddesign solutions acceptableto all stakeholders.

58.     The government's cancellation (against the Bank's objection) ofhouseholders' debt
incurred from loans usedto complete apartments created a dilemma for the Bank that it did
not handle very well. Eventhough the householder's debt precluded privatizationof their
apartments, the Bank objected as a matter o fprinciple in2002 saying that it would create a
badprecedent for future cost recovery efforts. Ifthe Bank had satisfactorily addressedthis
issue at project closure in 1997 and governments concerns (para 54) it could have avoided
such a contradictory and short-sighted decision later.

BorrowerPerformance

59.     Borrower performanceis ratedsatisfactory although there were some shortcomings.
The governmentstrongly supportedformation of aneffective PIUthat was independentofthe
state bureaucracy, facilitated the first round of competitive bidding by the private sector in
Armenia, and encouragedformation of aprivate-sector construction industry.Although there
were initialproblemswithprequalification and a numberof contracts failed, the PIUwas
effective inmainstreaminginternational contract law, includingpenalties for delay and
liquidated damages for voided contracts.Despite the difficult macroeconomic situation,
governmentprovided timely andadequate counterpart funding. Government at the central and
locallevels performedless well onthe reform agenda, putting short-term politicalexpediency
(for example, factory shells to create employment) before apragmatic acceptance o f

                                               17


permanently realigned market links with FSU. As aresult, longer-term reform ofhousing
policy was sidelined.


5.      Conclusions and Lessons

60.     Partnershipsbetweengovernment andthe donor community correctly targeted
existing housing stock that could be made safe andhabitable at least direct cost. As a result,
buildingefforts focused on partially completed apartmentsinperi-urban new districts created
after 1988. Itwas only inthe most severely damagedareas, such as Spitak, that newhousing
was built, and that at twice the cost ofrehabilitation. While the policy to focus on unfinished
buildings appearsmarginally cheaper infinancial terms (Table 4), the economic cost is much
higher than focusing on the strengtheningof older buildings intown centers. Apartments in
peri-urban areas require considerableadditional municipal investment (such as markets,
schools, medical facilities, heating, andpublic transport) to create viable communities. Most
importantly, most domik dwellerswould prefer to returnto their old city homes inlocations
that are already fully serviced.

61.     Despite the success of the donors' assistance for housing, it has only partially solved
the housing problem. After closure of the Bank's assistance it was estimated that there was
anunmet need for almost 27,000 housing units estimatedto cost US$l83 million- far
beyond locally available resources.Inaddition, surveys found that -contrary to expectations
-morethan70percentofrelocatedfamiliesretainedtheirdomih,sometimeslettingthem,or
using them for storage and plots for vegetable production (details inAnnex Bypage31). Not
only does this inhibit reclamation of inner-city parks and gardens and civic regeneration, it
also indicates problems with the regulatory environment.

62.     Since the project, a small private marketfor housinghas developed, catalyzedby the
USAIDhousingvoucher program that hashelpedmorethan 13,000 peoplemoveto permanent
homes.Evenso, amajor problem is that demandis low andthe market value of strengthened
or completedapartments i s less thenthe cost ofrehabilitation -$100 per square meterto
rehabilitate an apartmentworth only $80 per square meter inthe market. Consequently,
municipalities wouldpreferto sell andtransfer the liability to the private sector even though
there are no state-sponsoredearthquake zone financial incentives, suchas preferential pricing,
interest ratesor tax breaks.Another problem i s that most apartment buildings are only partially
occupied-almost 40 percent ofhouseholdslive inbuildings with occupancy rates of 60
percent or less -and this further drivesup average costs per apartment. Inthe meantime,
abandonedbuildings continue to deteriorate, raising rehabilitation costs further. Currently, in
Vanadzor for example, only 32 of 128 apartmentblocks havebeen rescued, the remainder,
capableofhousing 15,000 people, remain empty. The only building strengtheningactivity in
2002 was by theNGO Lincy Foundationand covered214 apartments infour buildings. More
recently, the Ministry of UrbanDevelopment andUSAID have initiated aHousing
Improvement Grant Program to assist condominium associationsinurban areas and
community associations invillages inco-financing critical repairs andupgradesto damaged
buildings.

                                              18


63.     The effects o funeven attention to the reconstructiono f different communities need
urgent attention. To minimize costs, most financial assistance was directed at urbanareas that
were adequately serviced with water and electricity. InSoviet times, more than halfthe rural
housing was privately owned and after the earthquake the state gave victims a small one-time
cash grant to rebuild. Few, however, actually rebuilt given the scarcity and price o fmaterials
and either usedthe grants for consumption or savings, the latter disappearing with rampant
inflation. Inconsequence, there remains a considerable stock o f unserviced, damaged, and
sub-standard housing inrural areaswhere unemployment i s reportedly as highas 70 percent
andmore than halfthe population is below the poverty line.

There are three lessons from this experience:
    >   A phased approachto reconstructionprograms after naturaldisastersprovides
        flexibility and avoids locking into inappropriate activities. A first phase needs to
        carefully identifyandprioritize immediate, short- andlong-term needswhile
        simultaneously buildinglocal capacity andinformation, tasks that generally require
        well-targeted technical assistance. Important considerations include factoring in
        macroeconomic realities, determining incentives frameworks, balancing direct and
        indirect costs, andfostering innovation.
    >   Disaster recoveryprojects, with their immediatephysical objectives, may not be
        suitable vehicles for achieving longer-term policy reforms.
    >   Reconstruction efforts should be designed to preserve communities, enhance
        supporting services, andtake great care that self-help features are cognizant o f
        cultural norms andrealistically reflect household's ability to pay. Inturn, this requires
        that the Bank give more attentionto social andpoverty assessments indisaster
        reconstruction activities.

                                                          19                              Annex A


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

ARMENIA: EARTHQUAKERECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT (EQRP)
(CREDIT 2 5 6 2 - ~ ~ )

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                      Appraisal     Actual or      Actual as % of
                      estimate  current estimate appraisalestimate
Total project costs    28.6          29.7              104
Loan amount            20.1          20.1              100
Cofinancing                            _-                _-
Cancellation             ____          __                _-

CumulativeEstimatedand Actual Disbursements
                                                FY94                FY95     FY96            FY97
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                       5.10                 13.4    20.1            20.1
Actual (US$M)                                   2.11                 8.3     16.4            20.1
Actual as % of appraisal                         41                  62       82             100
Date of final disbursement:           October 19, 1997


ProjectDates
                                                               Original            Actual
Identification                                                                  December 1992
Appraisal                                                                        April 1993
Negotiations                                                      _-              July 1993
Board approval                                                    -_            February 1994
Signing                                                                         February 1994
Effectiveness                                                                    April 1994
Project completion                                                              June 30, 1997
Closing date                                                      _-            June 30,1997


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                               Staff Week       Salary         Total
                                               US$OOO
Preappraisal                     68.2           141.2           209.4
Appraisal                        21.5            57.4            78.9
Negotiations                     18.1           41.9             60.0
Supervision                      77.4           217.8           295.2
Other
Total                           185.2           458.3           643.5

                                                 20                                  Annex A


 Mission Data
                       Date     No. of Staff days Specializations
                  (month/year) persons  in field   represented
 Identification1
 Preparation     Feb. 1993    8        12        2PMS,32 UP
                                                   FA,
                                                         EN
 Appraisal
 Supervision     Jun. 1994    6        15        2HE, E
                                                     IS, EN
                                                   UP,

                 Jul. 1995    2        12        2 UP

                 Dec. 1996    1        7         UP

                 Apr. 1996    1        6         UP


 Completion      Apr. 1997    2        18        UP, UE
 FA=FinancialAnalyst                  EN=Engineer
 IS=lndustrial Specialist             UP=Urban Planner
 E=Economist                          UE=Urban Economist
 HRS=Housing Reform Specialist        HE=HighwayEngineer




 Other Project Data
 BorrowerIExecutingAgency:
 FOLLOW-ON    OPERATIONS
~    ~~~
 Operation                                            Credit no.     Amount         Board date
                                                                   (US$ millionl


 Power Maintenance                                     Cr. 2666       13.7          12/08/1994
 IrrigationRehabilitation                              Cr. 2667       43.0          12/08/1994
 Highway                                               Cr. 2776       36.9          911411995
 Social Investment                                     Cr. 2784       12.0          11/09/1995

                                                     21                                       Annex B


Annex B. SupportingData and Information

Table B1:OED Detailed ratingof projectobjectivesshowing how they are derived from the
performanceof components

            Objectives/Component               Relevance    Efficacy    Efficiency  OUTCOME

1. Provide improved housingand living
conditions to residents of the Earthquake
Zone (EZ):
  0    Completionof unfinishedapartments       High         Substantial  Modest      Satisfactory

  0    Repairktrengtheningof damaged           High         Substantial Substantial   Highly
       buildings                                                                     Satisfactory

  0    Land development and constructiono f    Modest       Negligible  Negligible  Unsatisfactory
       serviced plots andstarter houses for
       single families and self-helpexpansion
  0    Provisionof bathhouses intemporary      Substantial  Substantial  Modest      Satisfactory
       areas
  0    Community facilities                    Substantia'  Substantial  Modest      Satisfactory
  0    Completionof selectedwater supply and
       sewerage insubprojectsin Spitak,
       Vanadzor, Stepanovan                    High         Substantial Substantial  Satisfactory


                 Overall Rating of Objective 1 High         Substantial  Modest      Satisfactory

2. Develop a longer-term sustainable program
for rehabilitation in the EZ:
  0    Procurementand construction             High         Substantial Substantial  Satisfactory
       supervision
  0    Housingreform & policy and regional     High          Modest      Modest     Unsatisfactory
       development inEZ
  0    The EarthquakeEngineeringCenter         Modest       Substantial Substantial  Satisfactory


                 Overall Rating of Objective 2 High         Substantial Substantial  Moderately
                                                                                     Satisfactory

3. Reconstruct infrastructure supporting
 employment creation:
  0    Complete factory shells for existing    High         Negligible  Negligible     Highly
       profitable industries                                                        Unsatisfactory


                 Overall Rating of Objective 3 High         Negligible  Negligible     Highly
                                                                                    Unsatisfactory

     OVERALL RATINGOF PROJECT                  Substantial  Substantial  Modest      Moderately
                                                                                     Satisfactory

                                                     22                                              Annex B


Table B2: Post-earthquakeHousingProductionby Different Sources of Finance
                                      1995                     1996                       1997
                            Sqm        (YO)             Sqm     (%)              Sqm       (YO)
State Resources             98,100 (57.0)               35,300 (60.1)            62,400 (45.4)
             State Budget   300       (0.1)                                      22,200 (16.1)
      World Bank Loans      97,800 (56.8)               35,300 (60.1)            40,200 (29.2)

Grants                      14,900 (8.6)                 5,400 (9.1)             20,000 (14.5)
     All-ArmenianFund       14,200 (8.2)                 3,200 (5.4)             20,000 (14.5)
                 UNHCR      700       (0.4)              2,200 (3.7)

Non-budget Funds            5,900    (3.4)                                       5,000    (3.6)
              Enterprises  4,900     (2.8)                                       5,000    (3.6)
        Local Authorities   1,000    (0.5)

Private Finance             53,200 (30.9)               18,000 (30.6)            50,000 (36.3)

TOTAL                      172,100 (100.0)              58,700 (100.0)           137,400 (100.0)

Source:Ministry of Economy of Republic ofArmenia



Table B3: Key IndicatorsFor Project Implementation

                                            Estimated                              Actual
I. Key implementationindicators in SAR
1. Civil Works
    Housing                        Provision of 2,069 units          2,857 units provided
    Bathhouses                     Provision of up to 54 units       11 completed
    Factories                     Repair of 7 units                  10factories repaired, only 2 utilized
    Infrastructure                Approx. 27 kmwater piping          41 km water piping provided
    Community Facilities          Undefined quantity valued at       Numerous structures built or
                                   $600,000                           repaired, valued at $2.9 million

2. Institutional Development    Housing PolicyAction Plan            Completed but with delay

                                                   23                                    Annex B


Table B4: StudiesIncludedin Project

Study                    Purpose as defined at                Status Impact of study
                         appraisalhedefined
Regional Economic Study  Assess the comparativeadvantage      Done
                         of the EQZ regardingeconomic
                         activities and recommend
                         infrastructurerepairand
                         developmentneeds.
Regional Infrastructure  Identifyto what extend existing      9/95   Shaped long range
Study                    infrastructuredeficienciesnegatively        investment planningfor
                         affect economicdevelopmentin                the EQZ
                         EQZ.
EQ Risk Management       Recommendrationalizingcurrent        10195
Strategy                 Seismic institutionalframework to
                         clarify the divisionof labor between
                         two active governmententitieswith
                         overlapping responsibilities.
Armenia Housing Sector   Presents sector issuesto highlight   10197  Provides overview of
and EQZ Housing Issues   main reconstructionissue, review            housing sector and will
                         settlement pattern and examine              be used as background
                         household expectationsand options.          material for housing
                                                                     component for
                                                                     Municipal Development
                                                                     Project.

                                                   24                                                   Annex B


Table B5: Status of Legal Covenant

Agreement       Section    Covenant Type   Present      Original         Revised      Description of
                                           Status      Fulfillment      Fulfillment   Covenant
                                                          Date            Date
Article IV        4.01     Financial          C        quarterly                      Maintain records and
                                                                                      accounts with sound
                                                                                      accounting practices
                                                                                      for operations,
                                                                                      resources and
                                                                                      expenditures.

Article IV        4.01     Financial          C         annually                      Furnish independent
                                                                                      audit of accounting
Schedule 4          1      Management         C                                       Maintain PIU
Schedule 4          2      Management         C                                       Execute Mid-Term
                                                                                      Reviewagreements

Schedule 4          3      Sectoral           C         06115194                      Submit Housing Policy
                                                                                      Action Plan
                                                                                      Cost recovery from
Schedule 4          4      Financial          NC                                      housing and factories
                                                                                      as agreed- eventually
                                                                                      written off in 2002

Schedule 4          5      Implementation     C                                       Allocation of housing
                                                                                      units as agreed


                                                                                      Submit plan for
Schedule 4          6      Financial          C         06130195                      bathhouse operations -
                                                                                      but few plans (2 of 11)
                                                                                      put into effect




Schedule 4          7      Implementation     C         06130195                      Provide priority access
                                                                                      to electricity, for
                                                                                      factories. But 8 of 10
                                                                                      factories abandoned.



Covenant types                                                                     Present Status:
1.= Accountslaudits                     8. = Indigenous people                     C = covenant
2. = Financial performancelrevenue      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting     complied with
 generation                             10. = Project implementation not           CD = complied with
from beneficiaries                      covered                                    after delay
3. = Flow and utilizationof project     by categories 1-9                          CP = complied with
funds                                   11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral           partially
4. = Counterpart funding                budgetary or                               NC = not complied
5. = Management aspects of the          other resource allocation                  with
project or                              12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
 executing agency                       policylregulatorylinstitutional action
6. = Environmentalcovenants             13. = Other
7. = Involuntaryresettlement

                                              25                                       Annex B


Summary Results of ICR 1997/98 Survey

1.      Households'Evaluationof the Unit

1.1     Living conditions ofbeneficiaries before and after the earthquake
        (untilmoving into their current units)
              Conditions                   Percent of           Percent of households
                                          households                 After the EQ
                                        Beforethe EQ
Location
Same city/village                             99                         96
Other cityhillage                              1                           4
Type ofhousing
Domilk                                        0.3                         83
Apartment                                     87.6                         4
Single family house                            8                           4
Dormitory                                      2                         0.7
Other                                          2                         8.4
Sharing the unit with others
Yes                                           13                          15
N o                                           87                          85
Average household size                        4.5                        4.5

1.2     Current forms ofutilization of domilk
                 Responses                               Percent of households
Given back to local authority                                     20
Sold                                                              10
Given to a friendor a relative                                     8
Usedas a workshop                                                 12
A part ofthe family lives                                          2
Kept empty                                                        15
Usedas constructionmaterial                                       10
Demolished                                                         6
Givenback to the original owner                                    2
Other                                                              0

1.3     Comparison o f current units with the ones occupied before the earthquake
                            Much       Better       About the      Worse        Much
                            better   (percent)        same       (percent)      worse
                          (percent)                  (percent)                 (percent)
Constructionquality           10         25             15           33           17
Size of the unit              11         28             36           20            5
Internal fixture              4          7              29           40           20

                                               26                                       Annex B


1.4     Comparison of current unitswith the ones occupied after the earthquake
                             Much         Better    About the      Worse        Much
                             better      (percent)     same       (percent)     worse
                           (percent)                 (percent)                 (percent)
Construction quality           61           29           4            5            1
Size o fthe unit               62           29           4           4             1
Internal fixture               54            18         12           12            4

1.5     Satisfaction with the current unit
                  Responses                             Percent of households
Satisfied                                                         40
Not entirely (but acceptable)                                     21


1.6     Reasons for dissatisfaction
                  Responses                             Percent of households
                                                         (who are dissatisfied)
Poor environmental quality                                        38
Inconvenient location                                             32
Unitsare unfinished                                               86
Bad construction quality                                          74
Small size o f units                                              12
Lack o f proper infrastructure (mainly central                    69
heating, and water)

2.       Households' Evaluationof the Market Priceof Unit and PaymentTerms

Absence of official documents                                  34               25
Lack of control/monitoring                                     22               15
Lack o f money                                                 22               39
Dissatisfactionwith the unit                                    1               2
Lack o f knowledge that helshe was supposedto pay              15               8
Moved recently                                                  1               5
Bought/exchanged                                                5               2
Paid off (finished)                                                             4

2.1      Evaluation of the price that they have to pay to get the ownership of the
         Apartment
                Responses                              Percent of households
 Fair                                                           60
 Unfair                                                         24
 Not sure                                                        16

                                                 27                                         Annex B


2.2      Reasonsfor evaluating the price as unfair
                         Responses                              Percent o f households
                                                           (those who think that the price is
                                                                  unfairhee above)
It should have been free                                                  13
Paid for the previous apt (demolished inthe EQ)                            2
Plannedto be free initially (when construction started)                   11
Unemployed and lack o f income                                            34
Dissatisfactionwith the apt.                                              11
Unfinished (finishingwork was left to the beneficiaries)                  29


4.       Sense of Ownership and attitudesTowards New Responsibilitiesas
         Owner-Occupiers

4.1      Beneficiaries' ideas about the ownership ofthe building
                  Responses                              Percent of households
No idea                                                              33
Zshek                                                                 5
Condominium association                                              14
Municipality                                                         27
Government                                                            3
The Mayor                                                             1
World Bank                                                           12
All ArmenianFund                                                      4

4.2      Beneficiaries' ideas about the ownershir, of the flat that thev were assigned
                  ResDonses                               Percent of households
A member o fthe family                                               98
Other (relative)                                                     2

4.3      Beneficiaries' consideration o f selling their units
                  ResDonses                               Percent o f households
Yes                                                                  35
No                                                                   57
Not sure                                                             8

4.4      Reasonsfor not considering selling the unit
                 Responses                               Percent o f households
                                              (those who do not consider selling their units)
Icannotbuyanotheroneagain                                          70
A real estate is better than money                                 10
Iwanttoleaveitformykids                                             5
It is a good apartment                                             12
Idonotwanttosellitanyway                                            3

                                                   28                                       Annex B


4.5     Beneficiaries' observationsabout the occupancy rate intheir buildings
                 Responses                                 Percent of households
Almost all the flats are occupied                                   20
More than half of the flats are occupied                            13
Halfof the flats are occupied                                       14
Less than halfo fthe flats are occupied                             24
Very few of the flats are occupied                                  20
Missing (I not know)
           do                                                        9


5.      MovingInto CurrentUnits

5.1     Beneficiaries' evaluations about the procedureof getting a unit
Was it difficult to get on to the waiting list and to          Percent of households
follow-up the formal procedure to get the unit
Yes                                                                     17
No                                                                      78
N o idea (Iam not sure)                                                  5

5.2     Difficulties encounteredingetting a unit
                     Responses                                 Percent of households
                                                        (those who encountered difficulties)
Too much bureaucracy                                                    48
We hadto pay extra money                                                13
We received a unit smaller than we should have                          22
Longwaiting list                                                        17

5.3     Expendituresencounteredinrelationto moving andfinishing the newunits
      Expenditures              Fees+down       Finishing Transportation    Other*     Total
                                 payment          work
Median of expenditures
(inDrams)                         16,000
*                                                120'000       16,000       60,000    82,000
  20,000 Drams was asked officially for registration, and 120,000 Drams was paidto
exchange the apartments with another beneficiary.

5.4     Other expenditures

Out of 296 interviewees only 11indicated that they had expendituresother than fees, down
payment, finishing work andtransportation of their furniture. Breakdown o f other
expendituresare given inthe table below.

                  Other expenditures                      Number of     Average amount paid
                                                            people           (inDrams)
Payment for registration                                      2                70,000
For finishingthe roof and basement o fthe building            3                30,000
Unofficial money                                              2                90,000
Unexplained                                                   4

                                                 29                                     Annex B


5.5     Attitudes towards receiving unfinished units
                               Responses                                      Percent of
                                                                             households
Itwas a fair decisionto leave the finishingwork to the beneficiaries              11
Itwas an unfair decision to leave the finishingwork to the beneficiaries          85
Indecisive (Ido not know)                                                         4

5.6     Advantages of getting an unfinished apartment
                   Responses                                 Percent o f households
N o advantages, but at least Ihave an apartment                        90
Icanfinishitaccordingtomytaste                                          6
Idonotknow                                                              4

5.7     Willingness to Day a higher mice to receive a finished unit
                   Resnonses                                 Percent of households
Yes                                                                    70
N o                                                                    22
Idonotknow                                                              8


                                         31                                   Annex C


Annex C. Borrower Comments




 Mr.Alain Barbu,Manager
 Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
 Operations Evaluation Department
 The World Bank Group
 1818 HStreet, N.W
 Washington, D.C. 20433 U.S.A.
 Fax: (202) 522-3 123




                                                               March 16, 2004


 Dear Mr.Barbu,




                Re: Arinenia-Earthquri-keReconstructionProject (CY.2562)

                     Draft Project Performance Assessment Report




        Thank you for your letter o f March 3, 2004 enclosing a copy o f OED
 Draft Project Performance Assessment Report. As the project documents clearly
 point out this operation was carried out under the most difficult conditions
 following breakdown of the Soviet Union and collapse o f the Armenian
 economy. The principal sectors o f the economy e.g. energy, industry and trade
 had collapsed completely, together with the Soviet reconstruction program o f
 the December 1988 colossal earthquake.

                                     32                                      Annex C



        Under these difficult circumstances, the authorities of newly independent
Armenia were organizing and beginning to implement the economic transition,
whilst seriously burdened with massive earthquake reconstruction needs that

had become critically pressing by 1993. Clearly, the World Bank's assistancefor
this purpose was very appropriate and helped to ease a crucial development

constraint for a vulnerable economy intransition. Assessing project performance
in this light, Iwould rank institutional development impact "substantial" and

thus overall outcome as "satisfactory". It was through the Earthquake

Reconstruction Project (the first Bank assisted investment project in Armenia),

that the Armenian technicians learned and practiced        the Western ways o f
project analysis, design and implementation, including competitive procurement

practices and efficient public resource allocation, which eventually was
replicated throughout the public sector. As such, Iam more closely inagreement
with the assessmentsofthe ECA Implementation Completion Report.




                                                  Sincerely,

                                                2.2

                                             Vahram Nercissiantz

                                   World Bank Group Governor for Armenia




cc: Mr.Ad P. W. Melkert
   Executive Director
   Fax: (202) 522-1572

   Mr.Ajay Chhibber, Director
   Operations Evaluation Department
   Fax: (202) 522-3 122

                                          33                                  Annex C




                                REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
                     THE MINISTRYOFURBANDEVELOPMENT
                                        MINISTER




                                                            31.03.2004 NQN-241924

                                                                  To: Mr.Alairi Earbu
                                                 Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
                                                     Operations Evaluation Department
                                                               The World Bank Group




         Dear Mr.Barbu,

This i s to confirm that Ministry o fUrbanDevelopment o fRA has no proposals referring
Project Performance Assessment Report on Earthquake ReconstructionProject.


         Sincerely yours,




                                                                          A. Aramyan

                                             34                            Annex C




    ~ U ~ U U S U~ ~uP- ~ P u ~ ~ s ~ I - ~ K "                   PECnYBfIMKA APMEHMH
~ I Z U ~ U C P ~ tuwu~u~n~la-3n1-h
                      ~ I - ~ ~ U ~                        MMHMCTEPCTBO rPALlOCTPOMTEfIbCTBA
            tUIUUPUP                                                  MMHMCTP

                                          REPUBLICOF ARMENIA
                                  THE MINISTRY OFURBANDEVELOPMENT
                                             MINISTER

