Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2562 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Earthquake Reconstruction Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 18, 1994
 CREDIT NUMBER 2562 AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Earthquake Zone" means the area damaged by the earthquake in 1988 as 
defined in the Decree of the USSR Council of Ministers No. 1463, dated December 27, 
1988;
(b)
"Earthquake Engineering Center" means the Earthquake Engineering Center 
of the National Survey of Seismic Protection of the Republic of Armenia, established 
by Decree No. 29 of the Department of Architecture of the Republic of Armenia dated 
June 15, 1992;
(c)
"Phase 1 of the Project" means the first phase of the Project 
implementation as specified in the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
"Phase 2 of the Project" means the second phase of the Project 
implementation starting upon completion of the mid-term review referred to in 
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as specified in the Annex to Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;
(e)
"PIU" means Project Implementation Unit for the Project established 
within the Borrower's Ministry of Economy;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 20,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank satisfactory to the Association on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  3
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2004, and ending August 15, 2028. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2013 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical  practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
Page  4
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministry of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of the Economy
Government House
Republic Square, 375010
Yerevan, Armenia
Fax:
Telex:
 
(7885) 252-4332
243331 LADA SU
  
215-1069
 215-1036
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  5
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By /s/ Rouben Shougarian
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Equipment                 130,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(2)   Civil works:                              100%
      (a) for Phase 1         5,560,000
          of the Project
      (b) for Phase 2         7,750,000
          of the Project
          (except for
          Part A (1),(i)
          and Part A (2),(i)
          of the Project)
Page  6
(3) Technical                  1,700,000        100%
    assistance,
    training and
    studies
(4) Unallocated                4,960,000
    TOTAL                     20,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 2,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after July 9, 1993; and 
(b) payments made for expenditures under Category (2)(b) unless the plan of specific 
works to be completed under Phase 2 of the Project referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been approved by the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to provide improved housing and living 
conditions to residents of the Earthquake Zone; (b) to support employment creation in 
the Earthquake Zone; and (c) to develop a longer term sustainable program for 
rehabilitation and development in the Earthquake Zone.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Housing
 
(1)
Finishing the construction of apartment buildings selected in accordance with  
criteria satisfactory to the Association in: (i) Spitak; (ii) Gumri; and (iii) 
Vanadzor;
(2)
Strengthening and repair of apartment buildings damaged by the earthquake in: 
(i) Spitak; (ii) Gumri; and (iii) Vanadzor; and
(3)
Construction of service plots and single family houses suitable for expansion by 
homeowners.
Part B:
Municipal Services
 
(1)
Provision of bathhouses for temporary housing areas, some of which incorporate 
solar heating;
(2)
Completion of water supply and sewerage subprojects; and
 
(3)
Developing of community facilities in the Earthquake Zone.
 
Part C:
Unfinished Factory Shells
 
Reconstruction of factory shells selected in accordance with criteria 
satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
 
The provision of consulting services, training and necessary equipment for:
(1)
assisting in procurement and contract supervision;
Page  7
(2)
development of an action plan for legislative, regulatory and institutional 
changes necessary to create an efficient market-oriented housing sector;
(3)
carrying out a study to evaluate the prospects for regional development  of the 
Earthquake Zone and devise policies and public investments to complete reconstruction  
and continue the economic and social rehabilitation of the Earthquake Zone; and
(4)
strengthening the Earthquake Engineering Center.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages.
 
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Armenia may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
2.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,500,000 or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $19,600,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $80,000 or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under contract 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
Page  8
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to all contracts for goods and works awarded in accordance 
with procedures under Part A, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 30% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ  consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Association and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
For the purpose of overall administration of the activities to be carried out 
under the Project, the Borrower shall maintain within the Ministry of Economy the PIU 
to be headed by a full-time project manager, whose experience and qualifications shall 
be acceptable to the Association, and who shall be assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
2.
The Project shall be implemented in two phases (Phase 1 and Phase 2) in 
accordance with the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule. Not later than June 15, 
1994, the Association shall review with the Borrower the progress made in carrying out 
activities under Phase 1 of the Project. The Borrower shall take all necessary 
measures to execute the actions identified and agreed upon between the Association and 
the Borrower during such review.
3.
The Borrower shall, not later than June 15, 1994, submit for the Association's 
comments an action plan referred to in Part D (2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Page  9
4.
Costs incurred by the Borrower under Part A (1), (3) and Part C of the Project 
in the construction and reconstruction of  housing units and factory shells shall be 
recovered by the Borrower from the owners of housing units and factories, in 
accordance with terms and conditions for the recovery of such costs satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall allocate apartments and single family houses financed under 
Part A (1) and (3) in accordance with the criteria satisfactory to the Association, 
and future changes to, or introduction of, new criteria shall be subject to 
Association approval prior to their introduction and implementation.
6.
The Borrower shall, prior to the start of operation of the bathhouses financed 
under Part B (1) of the Project, make or  cause to be made all such arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary to ensure that the bathhouses 
financed under Part B (1) of the Project shall be operated on a contractual basis and 
their operation and maintenance costs shall be recovered through collection of users 
fees.
7.
The Borrower shall provide priority access to electricity supplies to the 
enterprises financed under the Project.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
The works to be completed under Phase 1 and Phase 2
Part of the Project     Phase 1                       Phase 2
Part A:
Housing
 
(1)                     Completion of about       Completion of
                        800 apartments            about 700
                        selected for Phase 1      apartments
                                                  selected for
                                                  Phase 2
(2)                                               Strengthening
                                                  and repairing
                                                  of about 500
                                                  apartments
(3)                     Construction of           Construction of
                        approximately 42          approximately
                        serviced bare plots;      426 serviced
                        30 service plots with     bare plots;
                        foundation; 40 service    426 service
                        plots with starter        plots with
                        houses; and 10            foundation; 432
                        completed houses          service plots
                                                  with starter
                                                  houses; and 10
                                                  completed
                                                  houses
Part B:
Municipal Services
 
(1)                     Construction of about     Construction
                        10 bathhouses             of about 40
                                                  bathhouses
(2)                     Construction of           Construction of
                        Spitak water pipe         other water and
                                                  sewer sub-
                                                  projects
                                                  selected for
                                                  Phase 2
(3)                                               Financing of
                                                  selected
                                                  community
                                                  facilities
Page  10
Part C:
Factory Shells
 
(1)                     Construction of           Construction of
                        factory shells            factory shells
                        selected for Phase 1      selected for
                                                  Phase 2
Part D:
Technical Assistance, Training, Consultant Services
 
(1)                     Provision of consulting services for
                        procurement and contract supervision
(2)                     Development of an action plan for
                        legislative, regulatory and institutional
                        changes necessary to create an efficient
                        market-oriented housing sector
(3)                     Carrying out a study to evaluate the
                        prospects for regional development
                        of the Earthquake Zone
(4)                     Provision of the equipment for the
                        Earthquake Engineering Institute
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association Shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
Page  11
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
