Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 10711
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
(CREDIT 1614-SU)
JUNE 15, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
LSd/US$
Official Rate       Commercial Rate
1984                       1.3                  1.4
1985                       2.3                  1.5
1986                       2.5                  1.6
1987                       3.0                  1.8
1988                       4.5                  4.2
1989                       4.5                  6.3
1990                       4.5                 12.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Feddan = 1.04 acres      = 0.42 hectares
ABBREVIATIONS
ABS          Agricultural Bank of Sudan
OS          Government of Sudan
MOFEP        Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NWC          National Water Corporation
PCR          Project Completion Report
SGB          Sudan Gezira Board
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



F5R OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S.A.
Ofice of Direwtor-General
Opefateons Evaluation
June 15, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AN) THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on SUDAN
Drought Recovery Program (Cr.1614-SU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Sudan: Drought Recovery Program
(Cr.1614-SU)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of
the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
2
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
(CREDITr 1614-STW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface         .......................................................
Evaluation Summary .iii
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BANKS'S PERSPECTIVE  ..............
1. Project Identity .    ...........................................            1
2. Background  .      .............................................             1
3. Project Objectives and Description .............................            2
4. Project Design and Organization ...............................              2
5. Project Implementation.                                                     4
6. Project Results and Benefits.                                                5
7. Bank Performance.                                                            6
8. Borrower Performance.                                                        7
9. Lessons Learned.                                                             7
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE.                                       8
PART HII. STATISTICAL TABLES                   ..10
1. Project Timetable .10
2. Credit Disbursement ........................................                11
3. Summary Implementation Schedule .12
4. Project Costs .13
5. Project Financing .13
6. Project Results and Benefits .14
7. Status of Covenants .15
8. Use of Bank Resources .16
Map: IBRD 18959R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECr COMPLEIION REi'ORT
SUDAN
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
(CRED1T 1614,SM)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Drought Recovery Program in
Sudan, for which Credit 1614-SU in the amount of SDR 20.2 million was approved on June 20, 1985.
The actual closing date was June 30, 198?, one year behind schedule. SDR 18 nidlliwi was disbur:ed
The last disbursement was on January 19, 1ss9. SDR 2.2 million of the credit was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the Eastern Africa
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Pieparation cf this PCR was started in May of 1991, and is based, inter alia on the
President's Report; the Credit Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the iBank
and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
(CREDIT 1614-SU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.      In late 1984 the Government of Sudan (GOS) requested emergency assistance from all
donors in response to the severe drought that affected four million people in the country. The
drought reduced domestic production and livestock herds, leading to food scarcity and loss of export
revenues. Drinking water supply for both human and livestock was badly affected.
2.      In response to GOS's request, the Drought Recovery Program was conceived as emergency
assistance with quick, one-shot impact. The principal objective of the project was to provide
emergency assistance to increase food production in the short term. The secondary objectives were
to alleviate the economic stress caused to farmers as a result of the drought and the serious foreign
exchange constraint caused by the drought The project also aimed at encouraging the Government
to develop a long term strategy for rainfed agricultural sub-sector so as to mitigate the impact of
future droughts.
Project Desien and Organization
3.       The project was an emergency operation to provide foreign exchange for farm machinery
and inputs in order to increase food production. It consisted of four components: (i) Farm
machinery. (ii) Fertilizer. (iii) Jutc sacks. (iv) Potable water supplies. The supply of farm machinery
and fertilizer was mainly for the mechanized farming and irrigated areas, whi;e the water component
was intended to supply water to traditional farmers and their livestock in the Eastern Region.
4.       Conditionality on long term macroeconomic policies was not considered appropriate
because of the emergency nature of the project. The project designers focused on remedying the
damages from the existing drought rather than long term food security measures. However, during
the appraisal, the Bank took into account several policy issues, such as the appropriate interest rate
to farmers, how to assure the tractors would go to the high priority farmers, long term food security
and food production in Sudan.
5.       Considering the short-term nature of the project, the designers did not plan to establish
a new project implementation unit. The program was implemented by the Agricultural Bank of
Sudan (ABS), Sudan Gezira Board (SGB), the Rahad Corporation, and the National Water



- lv -
Corporatioi (NWC). The roles and responsibilities of the implementing agencies were clearly
defined and understood.
Project Implementation
6.       Both IDA and the Bank responded very quickly to provide the emergency assistance. The
project was appraised and approved within less than three months despite difficult country conditions.
Bank staff assisted GOS in advance preparation of tender documents. However, the project schedule
was overly optimistic. It did not taken into account the problems that migh. occur in procurement.
As a result, the arrival of agricultural inputs and machinery was by and large behind schedule. They
were available to farmers after the 1985/86 agricultural season.
7.       The water supply component was seriously delayed because the implementing agency NWC
was not familiar with IDA procedures and its implementation capacity was weak. The physical
implementation of the water component did not start until shortly before the original closing date of
June 30, 1987 and continued afterwards. A new proiect manager managed to achieve most of the
original objectives of the project (26 new wateryards and 7 new hafirs, and rehabilitation of 51 old
boreholes, 15 hafirs, and 23 wateryards). The water situation was eventually improved in the project
area and 140,000 families moved back to their home villages.
8.       T he closing date of the credit was extended to June 30, 1988. GOS's request for another
one year extension was not approved. A balance of SDR 2.2 million was canceled.
Results and Benefits
9.       Overall, project results were satisfactory. The project achieved its principal objective of
increasing food production. With the equipment and fertilizer provided under the project, farmers
were able to plant an additional 500,000 feddans of sorghum and food grain production increased by
about 380,000 tons. The project also succeeded in alleviatinp' the serious foreign exchange constraint
caused by the drought. However, because of slowness in implementation, the project did not fully
meet its objective of immediately alleviating the economic distress caused to farmers as a result of
the drought. The project also failed to achieve its nbjective of developing a long term strategy for
the rainfed agricultural sector.
Lessons Learned
10.      The lessons learned are mainly in two aspects: (i) The project agencies' implerlentation
capacity should be given more consideration as - key factor in the design of an emergency project.
Intensive supervision involving skills in the appropriate area, such as procurement, may have to be
provided to prevent delays (even when the Bank ensures advance preparation of procurement
documents as in this case). (ii) Preventive measures are needed to avert food shortages, and the
Bank rightly requested the Government to formulate longer-term policies on development of the
rainfed sector ar.i food security. However, it should also have provided the necessary financing. The
subsequent Emergency Drought Recovery Project has drawn upon these lessons. (iii) It has been
recognized that the Bank is not equipped to undertake emergency relief. The focus should be on
recovery of productivity within a realistic time frame and reducing vulnerability to future disasters.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
PROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
(LCREr,6T 1614-SU)
PART I. PROJECT REXCLW FROM BANKS'S PERSFECTIVE
1. Project Identity
1.1     Project Name:    Drought Recovery Program
Credit No. :    1614-SU
RVP Unit :      Africa, Country Department II
Countrv   :     Sudan
Sub-sector:     Agriculture
2. Background
2.1     In late 1984 the Government of Sudan requested emergency assistance from all donors
in response to the severe drought that affected most of the country. The estimated food gap var;ed,
but there was broad agreement that around four million people were potentially affected, and that
the influx of refugees from neighboring countries had compounded the problem. The drought reduced
domestic production and livestock herds, leading to food scarcity and loss of export revenues.
Drinking water supply for both human and livestock was badly affected. The prolonged drought also
eroded the capacity of the affected population to resume normal agricultural activity once rainfall
returned because seeds and other inputs were in short supply, purchasing power had deteriorated ana
reduced export earnings and a shortage of foreign exchange prevented mechanized farmers from
securing their recurrent input needs.
2.2      The proposed project was designed to address the problems described above. It was
conceived as emergency assistance with quick, one-shot impact. The project was focused on restoring
food production capacity in the high potential zones of the country, and improving the potable water
supply in the farming communities in the Eastern Region.
2.3      The Bank Group assistance strategy at the time was to encourage the Government to
undertake a br( ad program of economic reforms aimed at addressing the structural imbalances of the
economy. The dialogue was active and broad-based. At the advice of the IMF, the Government had
just announced a substantial devaluation and increased petroleum prices by some 60 percent. The
resulting price increases, together with the food shortage, created a rather tense political situation.
The donor community felt that the Government was trying to pursue "correct" economic policies, and
that quick assistance was needed to keep the economic recovery program on track.
2.4      At the sector level, IDA had an a-tive agricultural program, with lending operations in all
the important sub-sectors (irrigated, mechanized rainfed and traditional rainfed). The Drought



-2 -
Recovery Program was addressing the emergency needs of all these sub-sectors by providing fertilizer
to the irrigated sector, and tractors. jute sacks and water to the rainfed sectors. As part of the
project, GOS aLso agreed to develop a strategy paper and an action plan for the rainfed sector. Thus
the project was intended to reduce Sudan's future dependence on outside assistance and mitigate the
impact of future droughts, and enable the Government to address the longer-term develor ment
objectives of the country.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1     Project Objectives. The principal objective of the Drought Recovery Prograr.- to
provide emergency assistance to increase food production in Sudan in the short term. A sev ndary
objective was to alleviate the economic distress caused to farmers in Sudan as a result of the drought.
The project also aimed at alleviating the serious foreign exchange constraint caused by the drought,
and at encouraging the Government to carry out the development of a long-term strategy for the
rainfed agricultural sub-sector.
3.2     Project Description. The project consisted ofr
(a) Farm Machinery (US$ 5.0 million-Y). Purchase of 450 tractors and tractor spare parts
for the mechanized farming schemes.
(b) Fertilizer (US$ 8.5 million). Pur ,hase of 40,000 .ans of fertilizer for the public
irrigated sub-sector (Rahad and Giezira) and 5,000 tons for the private irrigated areas.
(c) Jute Sacks (US$ 3.0 million). Purchase of 15,000 bales of 200 sacks to meet the
storage needs im. the rainfed areas.
(d) Potable Water Supplies (US$ 3.5 million). Purchase of spare parts for the repair of
four drilling rigs owned by the National Water Corporation (NWC), materials for the
drilling of 40 new deep wells, rehabilitation of 40 existing wells, construction and
rehabilitation of 23 hafirs, and appropriate equipment and support vehicles for wells
and hafir rehabilitation to be operated by NWC's Eastern Regional Office.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1     The project was in response to GOS's request to all donors in December, 1984 for
immediate drought reiief. It was an emergency operation to provide foreign exchange for farm
machinery and inputs in order to increase food production. The supply of farm machinery and
fertilizer was mainly for the mechanized farming and irrigated areas, while the water component was
intended to supply water to traditional farmers and their livestock in the Eastern Region, which was
not covered by other donors and had production potential. The balance of payment support provided
by the project, although recognized, was considered a secondary objective of the project.
" These are amounts to be financed by the credit.



-3-
4.2      Several components were considered for financing under the project at various points in
time, including seeds, chemicals, fuel, transportation and nutritional supplements, in addition to the
final project components of tractors, fertilizer, jute sacks and water equipment. Seeds (mainly hybrid
sorghum for the irrigated sector) was not considered because of USAID assistance; chemicals
(insecticides and herbicides) were c,onsidered of low priority for food production compared to other
inputs; fuel was identified as a main constraint in the transport sector, but it was concluded that it
would be very difficult to control proper distribution; support for the transport sector, and speciflcally
for Sudan Railways Corporation, was dismissed because of the difficulties in the dialogue with the
Bank in that sector at that time, and USAID and other donors were providing assistance for the
purchase of trucks and other transport facilities.
4.3      Because the project was to address the emergency needs of the upcoming agricultural
season (starting around June/July 1985), the Bank agreed to compress the processing cycle. Thus, (i)
the Project Brief was cleared with management prior to appraisal departure, (ii) documentation to
the Board was limited to an abridged President Report, and (iii) after appraisal, the President's
Report was prepared directly for presentation to the Loan Committee, thus eliminating the Issues
Paper/Decision Memorandum stage.
4.4      Conditionality on long-term macroeconomic policies was not considered appropriate under
a short term emergency operation like the Drought Recovery Program. (This principle was later
reflected in the Bank's Operational Directive 8.50: Emergency Recovery Assistance.) However,
several issues were raised during the review in the Bank, including the appropriate interest rate to
farmers, how to assure that the tractors would go to the high priority farmers and not be used to
cultivate already degraded land, and how to address the longer-term issues of food security and food
production in the country. During negotiations, it was agreed that tractors and other inputs would
be provided by the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) for cash or loans at agreed terms and
conditions to farmers with titles to approved land.
4.5      Project designers focused on remedying the damages of the existing drought rather than
longer term food security measures that would prevent future food shortages. Although the
Government was required to prepare an action plan based on a Rainfed Sector study, the project did
not provide resources to carry out the work. In retrospect, food security policies embracing food
pricing, marketing and distribution issues should have been given more atteation. In late 1988, a joint
donor mission led by the Bank started a food security study in the Sudan and produced a report,
"Sudan, Toward an Action Plan for Food Security." Following up on its findings, Sudan's Ministry
of Finance and Economic Planning established a Foo :,ecurity Coordination Unit with financing
from the Emergency Drought Recovery Project (Cr. Z90-SU).
4.6      The project assisted several agencies, but because of the perceived short-term nature of
the project, it was not considered appropriate to establish a new project implementation unit. The
program was implemented by ABS, Sudan Gezira Board (SGB), the Rahad Corporation and NWC.
These agencies were considered capable of project implementation. The roles and responsibilities of
the implementing agencies were clearly defined and understood. A program steering committee
cksired by the Undersecretary, MOFEP, and comprising representatives of the above agencies was
es ablished to coordinate and monitor timely procurement under the project. However, this
arrangement turned out to be ineffective. (This committee only met a few times, and had little



- 4 -
impact on project implementation.)  In retrospect, given the poor track record of project
implementation in Sudan and the importance of timing in an emergency operation, the project should
have given more consideration to implemcntation arrangements, especially for NWC.
5. Project Implementation
5.1      The project was appraised and approved by the Bank in less than three months despite
difficult country conditions (the previous Government was overthrown in April, 1985). The project
was approved by the Board June 20, 1985 and was declared effective September 11, 1985 immediately
after the receipt of the legal opinion from GOS.  ' project ,chedule was overly optimistic and did
not take into account the usual time lapse for effectiveness to occur. According ;" the original time
table, the project would become effective in July 1985, immediately after signing, so that agricultural
inputs could be delivered before the 1985/86 agricultural season. With the delay in effectiveness, the
inputs arrived later than expected and were in time for the following year's agricultural season.
5.2      Procurement was further delayed for other reasons. A Bank mission had very early on
(July, 1985) reviewed and cleared bid evaluations and award recommendations for a number of
procurement contracts. Howev-r, the second lowest bidder for the tractor contract complained about
the award recommendations, and ihe contract was subsequently given to this company (which was
final!y considered the lowest evaluated, technically responsive bidder). As a result, the tractors did
not arrive in Port Sudan until May, 1986, and most of them were not distributed until the following
1987/88 season. The tractors were provided to eligible farmers holding title to approved land for cash
or three-year loans.
5.3      Once the contract had been awarded, the purchase of fertilizer (61,179 tons) and jute sacks
(16,000 bales) went smoothly and the goods arrived in Port Sudan in January, 1986. However, the
distribution of fertilizer to the Sudan Gezira Board (40,000 tons, 10,000 more than planned) was held
up because SGB did not have the funds to reimburse AL3. According to the President's Report, in
case of delayed procurement, SGB and Rahad were to make available fertilizer for sorghum from
existing stocks and later receive replenishmen' when project-financed fertilizer arrived. However,
since there was no formal agreement on this arrangement, it could not be enforced. The jute bales
were distributed as planned to the various ABS branches. The jute bags were sold to farmers under
a six-month seasonal credit, whereas the fertilizer was sold to the tenants in Rahad and Gezira against
cash. The local counterpart funds were deposited in a special account in the Bank of Sudan.
5.4      The water supply component was seriously delayed. The procurement was to be cleared
by an IDA mission in November, 1985. but NWC was unfamiliar with IDA procedures and had
already issued unacceptable tender docu..._nts. No significant progress was made before 1987, despite
several supervision missions and promises of implementation improvements. NWC was asked to
prepare an implementation program for the drilling of wateryards and rehabilitation of hafirs. Several
programs were prepared, but with repeated slippages in deadlines. NWC was also supposed to work
out a policy fc r cost recov-ry, but this was not done.
5.5      The ihysical implementation of the water component did not commence until six months
before the origirnil closing date of June 30, 1987, and continued afterwards. A new project manager
was appointed in 'Rebruary, 1988, and at the time of the PCR mission (May, 1991), he had managtd



to achieve most of the original o'bjectives of the project (26 new wateryards and 7 new hafirs, and
rehabilitation of 51 old boreholes, 15 hafirs, and 23 wateryards, and the remainder to be completed
by the eaid of 1991). This was a remarkable achievement, especially consider.ng that the project unit
was not provided with any drilling rigs of its own. The spare parts to rehabilitate four old rigs owned
by NWC were received, but the rigs were used elsewhere. The project uiiit borrowed rigs from other
agencies operating in the region. Also, the turbine pumps purchased under thie project had broken
down due to poor se-vicing and maintenance, but the project manager was able to trade these for
more appropriate models that required less maintenance. As a result of the improved water situation
in the project area, some 140,000 families moved back to their old villages.
5.6      Thk Government also presented a letter of intent on the Strategy for Rainfed Agriculture,
stating that it would carry out a Rainfed Sector Study to address the issues of (i) pricing, marketing
and incentives, (ii) technology, (iii) land tenure, and (iv) organization, institutions, finance and credit.
It was agreed that the Government would discuss the recommendations of the study with IDA and
work out a detailed plan of action for the sector before the end of the year (December 31, 1985).
GOS prepared a Rainfed Study with the assistance of consultants financed by other sources, but the
action program and a long-term strategy for the sector that were to follow did not materialize.
5.7     'The closing date of the credit was extended to June 30, 1988. GOS requested another
one-year extension to disburse the remaining balance, but this request was not approved by IDA,
which argued that as an emergency credit, it was long overdue for closing, and that outstanding
procurement would have to be finance3d under other credits. Nevertheless, the final disbursement
was not made until January 19, 1989, at which time a balance of SDR 2.2 million was canceled.
6. Prcject Results and Benefits
6.1      Overall, project results were satisfactory. The project achieved its principal objective of
increasing food production by providing tractors, fertilizer and jute sacks to the agricultural sector.
Although the inputs arrived later than scheduled, the project equipment benefitted farmers in
subsequent seasons. The risks of late procurement and inadequate rains were recognized in the
President's Report, but it maintained that the farm machinery and jute sacks would not be wasted
since they could be used in the following year. The project equipment enabled farmers to plant an
additional 500,000 feddans of sorghum in the mechanized rainfed sector, and increased food grain
production in the irrigated sector through fertilizer application. It is estimated that food grain
production increased by some 380,000 tons because of the project intervention. This is equivalent to
the annua! food grain requirement of around 2.6 million people. However, it is difficult to make
direct correlation between project inputs and the country's total cereal production. In 1985/86 before
the inputs arrived, Sudan's cereal production increased more than three times from the year before
because of good rainfall. Subsequently, it dropped again because of low rainfall and uncertainty in
Government pricing and marketing policies.y
6.2      The project did not fully meet its second objective, i.e. of alleviating the economic distress
caused to farmers as a result of the drought, because of slowness in implementation. While tractors
v' See Sudan Toward an Action Plan for Food Security, World Bank, September 4, 1990.



-6-
and farm inputs were provided to farmers who were able to raise cash or enter into a loan (with the
objective of increasing food production), the water component was to have a wider impact on
traditional farmers. It was estimated that around 140,000 families were able to relocate back to their
old villages due to the increased water availability, and that the daily water requirements of around
one million people were met as a result of the project intervention. The four-year lag in completion
was regrettable but given the serious problem of displacement of people in Sudan, this was a notable
achievement.
6.3      The project succeeded in meeting its third objective, i.e. to alleviate the serious foreign
exchange constraint caused by the drought. As a balance of payment support operation the project
was successful, providing much needed foreign exchange at a pace far quicker than regular Bank
operations. However, as evident in the subsequent years in the Sudan, the scarcity of foreign
exchange is a deep-rooted problem caused by macro-economic mismanagement and inadequate cost
recovery policies. The proiect was not designed to address these issues. The project also enabled
ABS to expand its regular ler.ding operations. A subsidiary loan agreement was established under
which ABS would repay the proceeds to GOS over ten years with three years grace. Also the project
generated local counterpart funds that were made available for the Government's regular
development expenditures. However, the project failed to achieve its objective of developing a long-
term strategy for the rainfed agricultural sector.
6.4      Project implementation experieace showed that despite the precautions (such as early
preparation of tender documents), the project went through many slippages, thereby defeating its
emergency mission. While some of the delays could be attributed to inadequate measures to
strengthen the Borrower's implementation capacity, they also raised the question of how realistic it
was to expect that large amounts of agrictultural machinery and inputs, procured by World Bank
procedures, could arrive within a few months. Recognizing the constraints, the Bank issued
Operational Directive 8.50 in November 1989 emohasizing that the main objective of Bank recovery
assistance is to restore assets and productivity, not to provide emergency relief. It also stresses that
such projects should build in elements to make the country better prepared for future disasters.
7. Bank Performance
7.1      IDA responded very quickly to the request for emergency assistance, and was able to field
a mission at short notice. The processing in the Bank was also quick, with only two months between
appraisal and board presentation. This was accomplished in a very difficult country situation (due to
the shift in government and various political disruptions). Bank staff also assisted GOS in advance
preparation of tender documents, and continued to provide valuable assistance in this respect in
subsequent supervision missions.
7.2      However, Bank staff had a too optimistic view of the possible disbursement pace. The
weak implementing capacity of NWC should have been identified earlier. The tremendous
procurement problems could then have been addressed by some form of technical assistance. IDA
sought to rectify the situation during various supervision missions, but the frequent change of
supervision staff seemed to have delayed the intended progress (until late 1987). Also, the Bank did
not pay enough attention to food security policy during the project period.



-7-
8. Borrower Performance
8.1      GOS submitted the legal opinion three months after signing of the credit agreement. This
was the normal lapse but in this case, the delay undermined the emergency nature of the project. The
implementing performance of ABS was good, despite changes in the highest levels of ABS
management and a subsequent strike among ABS. The procurement was done quickly, although there
were some problems over the technical specification for the tractor contract. The implementing
performance of NWC left a lot to be desired. No progress took place for almost two years. The
project Q.arted to move in early 1988, almost three years after appraisal. Then a new project manager
was able, under difficult operating conditions, to complete the wateryards and hafir program.
Compliance with covenants was mixed as noted in Part III, Table 7.
9. Lessons Learned
9.1      The lessons learned are summarized as follows:
(a) The project did not provide institution-building elements because the implementation
agencies were considered capable of carrying out the project. In retrospect, their
capacity was overestimated, and issues of implementation were not taken care of in
the project design. Also, intensive supervision involving skills in the appropriate area,
such as procurement, could have prevented some delays. The subsequent Emergency
Drought Recovery Project tackles this issue by requiring that Government set up a
coordination unit and by employing experienced United Nations agencies to assist in
procurement and execution of parts of the project.
(b) Preventive measures are needed to avert food shortages.  The longer-term
development of the rainfed sector and food security policies are important and
resources should be provided to assist the Government in formulating appropriate
policies. This is being carried out in the Emergency Drought Recovery Project.
(c) It has been recognized that the Bank is not equipped to undertake emergency relief.
The focus should be on recovery of productivity within a realistic time frame and
reducing vulnerability to future disasters.



- 8 -
PART II: PROJECr REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The following letter contains comments on Parts I and III from the Natior it Rural Water
Corporation, the implementing agency for the water supply component. It a.o submitted a
completion report for the water supply component. The report is available at the Africa Information
Services Center.
Dr. Mohamed Khier El Zubeir,
1st Under Secretary,
Ministry of finance and Economic Planning,
Khartoum.
Ref. 1984 Drought Recovery Program
(Cr. No. 1614-SU)
Comments on draft project completion:
Dear Sir,
I have the pleasure to submit our comments on the draft project completion for the above-
mentioned project as follows:
1.    Part 1.  Project review from bank's perspective, on page (2) item No. (7) project
completion, Sub-Section (iv), the allocated fund for water component in the (Cr.
No. 1614-SU) was (SDR 3.50 million) and not (US$ 3.50 million) as it is shown in
the draft project completion for the above-mentioned project. Other than that, we
fully agree with the contents of the draft, so far concerning water sector in Part 1.
2.    Part 111. Statistical Tables
Table (4) project costs: (Appraisal estimate)
Under Note: The draft report, says, that the local cost component for water supply
(source MOPEF) become much larger than envisaged. Yes, it is true, and that is
of course due to the following reasons:
2.1      The chemicals for boreholes' rectification (redevelopment) had arrived Port Sudan
after the disbursement permissible time had elapsed and as response to the
contractors' request, the GOS had paid the value of the chemicals in Sudarnese
pound, in addition to the whole bids' ensurance recoveries.
2.2     Due to the increasing of fuel and lubricants prices, simultaneously the goods
transferring fees and the prices of local purchases increased likewise, and for the
sake of achieving the project objectives, the differences have been covered
accordingly.



- 9 -
2.3      We think, that, when the Mission, estimated the local component in the project,
they didn't put any consideration to the project's staff salaries, that is of course for
the salaries of the staff are already found in Chapter 1 as Government employees,
but for the sake of achieving the real costs of each implemented water source in
the project we injected to the cost (over and above the staff salaries), variable
proportions from the salaries of those who indirectly involved in the
implementation of the project's program, i.e., (Head of technical cooperative
sections, Executive directors NRWC, at Province levels, the Regional director and
his subordinates, NRWC at regional level (HQ).
However the above-mentioned reasons are collectively led to the increasing of the allocated
local fund as it is noticed in the draft project completion, although, part of the launched local
currency injected there in the cost (Salaries) not received directly from the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning, but appeared as general expenditures for the purpose of the whole cost
registration. The attached final project completion report explains further more, with our warm
regards.
Thanks
We remain,
Sincerely Yours
Engineer:
A.I. Sileik
Project Manager for General Director
N.R.W.C.
Khartoum, Sudan



- 10-
PART mL SIATI!;IAL TABLES
Table 1: Project Timetable
Date         Date          Date
Item                       Planned       Revised       Actual
Identification              12/84                       12/84
Preparation/Appraisal       4/85                        3-4/85
credit Negotiations         5/85                        5/85
Board Approval              6/85                        6/20/85
Credit Signature            7/85                        6/24/85
Credit Effectiveness        7/85          9/24/85       9/11/85
Project Completion          12/86                       12/91
Credit Closing              6/30/87                     6/30/88



- 11 -
Table 2: Credit Disbursement
(USS million)
IDA Fiscal Year      Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Annual   Cumulative        Annual Cumulative
1985                17            17             0        0
1986                 3            20          15.4     15.4
1987                                           1.2     16.6
1988                                           3.0     19.6
1989                                           1.4       21



- 12 -
Table 3: Summary Implementation Schedule
Appraisal          Actual
TRACTORS:
Shipment and delivery                8/85               5/86
JUTE SACKS:
Shipment and delivery                7/85               1/86
FERTILIZER:
Shipment and delivery                9/85               1/86
WATER COMPONENT:
Shipment and delivery                9/85               87/88-88/89



-13 -
Table 4: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Item                      Appraisal Estimate         Actual
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total
Tractors              0.6      4.0      4.6      0.6      3.8      4.4
Tractor spares        0.2      1.0      1.2      0.2      1.2      1.4
Jute sacks            0.4      3.0      3.4      0.4      3.0      3.5
Fertilizer            3.1      8.5     11.6      2.8      7.6    10.3
Water Supply          0.6      3.5      4.1      4.0      2.4      6.4
Total                 4.9     20.0     24.9      8.0     18.0    26.0
__________________
Note: ABS was not able to provide separate local cost for project
components. It was assumed that ABS local costs were incurred
in the same proportion to foreign cost as in the original cost
table. Also note that the local cost component for water supply
(soarce: MOPEF) became much larger than envisaged.
Table 5: Project Fmancing
(US$ million)
Planned
(Credit
Source           Agreement)        Final
…--------------------------------------------
IDA                    20                21
Government            4.9                 5
Total                24.9                26



- 14 -
Table 6: Project Results and Benefits
A. AGRICULTU1RAL INPUTS AND EQUIPMENT
Item                          Tractor        Fertilizer       Jute Sacks
Unit of account                   no.              tons             bales
No. of units
Appraisal                    450            50,000            15,000
Actual                       530            61,179            16,000
Value, USS mill.                  5.8              10.3               3.5
Physical impact         I tractor per          50 kg/fd 300 sacks/bale /a
1000 feddan
Physical return         250kg dura/fd       200kg grain      5% saving in
grain losses
Total return of
food grain             132,500 tons      244,700 tons
Av.food consumption
per head/day (kg)                 0.4               0.4
Aff.persons/year
('000)                      920              1699
/a Appraisal estimate: 200 sacks/bale



15 -
Table 7: Status of Covenants
COVENANTS           DEADLINE              STATUS
GOS to submit action         Dec.31 1985    Ralnfed Study completed,
program to IDA based                        but no action program was
on Rainfed Study.                           prepared.
ABS to provide four                         1 0% of tractors provided in
year tractor loan                           cash, the rest provided at
and one year input                          three year tractor loan with
loan with 14 % interest.                    at least 14 % Interest.
GOS to ensure that                          Tractors only provided to
tractors are not used                       farmers with title to
in degraded zones.                          approved land.
Onlending to ABS at                         Subsidiary loan agreement
9.6 % with repayment                        established between GOS and
over 10 years and 3                         ABS; LS 12.7 million had
years grace.                                been repaid by April, 1991
for the 1989 and 1990
installments.
Local currency proceeds                     In compliance.
from sale of fertilizer
to tenants in Rahad and
Gezira to be paid into
special account in BOS.
NWC to submit drilling       July 31,1985   Sever: drilling program was
program.                                    submitted, but none adhered
to. However, good progress
made after credit closing,
and all components expected
to be completed in 1991.
NWC to provide program       July 31,1985   Not in compliance. Rates
for cost recovery.                          have been doubled recently,
but this is less than half
of the rate required for
full cost recovery.



- 16 -
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
FY     1985      1986     1987      1988      1989         1990
Identification/
Preappraisal            0.2
Appraisal              13.5
Negotiations            1.7
Supervision             0.3       8.9      8.9         6       0.2          0.2
Other                   9.2       0.3      0.3                 0.1
Total                  24.9       9.2      9.2         6       0.3          0.2
S. Missions
Month/   No. of   Days in  Specialization    Performance Types of
Year     Persons  Field    Represented /a    Rating /b   Problems /c
Appraisal          3/85          5       22    a, ae, fa, wr
Supervision I      8/85          3       19    a, en, fa                 1      P
Supervision II    3/86           2        7    fa, en                   2       P, M
Supervision III   3/87           2        8    fa, en                   2       P, N
Supervision IV    11/87          1       15    ar                       2       P, M
/a a=agriculturalist, aemagriculture economist, fa-financial analyst, wr=water resources
specialiat, en-engineer, ar-architect
/b 1 - No significant problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 - Major problems, action being
taken; 4 - Major problems, not being addressed adequately.
/c P - Procurement; M - Managerial



27                 24                  26-                 25-                  30-                 32-                3-s
SUDAN
DROUGHT- AFFECTED AREAS
2?                                                                ARAB   REPUBL I C   OF   EGYPT                                                                               2,
~~~~~. .             P... . .  -       .  .'-......' .Bi
L  I  B    Y    A                               .       -i
N.s                              I:   N0 R T:: H.M. NR  N. > R
'_  10                            PMRI SUDAN
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~4o~ Ad  g-1
|             i     '1Ed D
C H A  D |!.:
NYALA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0U trots
'0.
Mao Isr goIioe Sch,,es
Seoroy Rood  s.v , Unsodop
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E OBEI                                               Kos LAKz:  
CENTRAL S/ ,IETeH 0I  O               e                                , A
20  26      20                    30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ THI0     
AFR ICi P,
S:"e,ely Affected NIL  
Modenotely Affected                N          I               0           >S                                     -
Low  ftoifoll  onnrwh Woodl..d J   I  5;   G 0
High Roinfoll Sosonnh vvbodbnJ"£                  ; ,             Jdi                                     _           - -             1
Montonef,t$                                                                            \g           - -&                      A D3
: : iMechonired Cereel  Production* Rmf  IIv_1  
tMoj  l,,igatio 'ichenes                                ex v                        >     ;_
_^ Roinfoll llohyets of 30 yr. owoge, mm /y, )                                                                            LIBsr0 b j1  YA  jAkA,EP,      1A2\D1
coires                                                            4P               gJ   G  \;N D   A                <tO   GP -   t> ARA  
- -Se*sonol Lokes  or Wadi Be3dsi G/ j'  ;
_  Po  ed Roods                                                                               S                                                         . 
---  PoYed Rcods Undc  Constrution .                                                                                           CHAD !                     r      Y
-Sscodory Roods, Urls,,fced                                                                                                        r..
e p"i.-Io copiml.s                                                                  K,toMETERS                       0           3       irs 1uAN
o    Selected Town ond Villoges                                                                                                   -A                 <           _
--Reg,ol,oi fl.ounoies                                                                                                 E1-          v                    FTIpA    >
24-                  26P                   2h                    30='..O              3r-                                                     KIM.........~;zAiR   



