DccumcM of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqput No. P-4102-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.2 MILLION
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
June 3, 1985
Thi dcumnat bas a ra&ludu   db~ijim and m*Y be _md by redieuts Ouy In the performan  of
te  *okj  4ug Us cegb mm    y not oderwie be dicod wltoat Werd Bank mthoh.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00       -      LSd 2.50 (official rate)
LSd 1.00              US$ 0.40 (official rate)
LSd 1.00              100 piasters
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    -      0.62 miles (m)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)               -      0.3886 sq mi (mi2)
1 metric ton (mt)                   m      2,205 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                         m      0.264 gallons (gal)
1 feddan (fd)                              1.04 acres
1 kantar (seed cotton)                     143 kg
1 kilowatt (kw)                     5      1.36 horsepower (hp)
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ABS               -       Agricultural Bank of Sudan
ARP               -       Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
ARC               -       Agricultural Research Corporation
CCCA              -       Committee for Coordinating Commodity Aid
CPC               -       Cotton Public Corporation
DRP               -       Drought Recovery Program
EAP               -       Export Action Program
EFF               -       Extended Fund Facility
ELS               -       Long Staple Cotton
GOS               -       Gcvernment of Sudan
JMC               -       Joint Monitoring Committee
NEFC              -       Mechanized Farming Corporation
MOA               -       Ministry of Agriculture
MOFEP             -       Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NWC               -       National Water Corporation
PPC               -       Program Procurement Committee
PPPED             -       Prospects, Programmes and Policies for
Economic Development
PPF               -       Project Preparation Facility
SGB               -       Sudan Gezira Board
SPPF              -       Special Project Preparation Facility
TYPIP             -       Three Year Public Investment Program
IDA FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
DROUT RECOVERY PROGRAM
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Amount:        SDR 20.2 million (US$20 million equivalent)
*       Beneficiaries: Agricultural Bank of Sudan, Sudan Gezira Board, Rahad
Corporation and National Water Corporation
Relending      The Borrower would re-lend US$9.0 million equivalent to the
Terms:         Agricultural Bank of Sudan for 10 years repayment including
3 years grace, with a service charge equivalent to 9.6
percent annually with the foreign exchange risk borne by the
Government. The balance would be made available to the
Sudan Gezira Board and the Rahad Corporation as a cash sale
and to the National Water Corporation as a grant.
Program        The credit will provide emergency assistance to help restore
Description:   food production losses caused by several years of drought.
Specifically, it will provide financing:
(i) through the Agricultural Bank of Sudan for farm
machinery and spare parts, fertilizer and jute sacks to
mechanized farmers in the rainfed areas and to traditional
private farmers with irrigated farms;
(ii) through the Sudan Gezira Board and Rahad Corporation
for fertilizer to tenant farmers in the Gezira and Rahad
irrigated schemes; and
(iii) to the National Water Corporation for equipment to
assist in the drilling and rehabilitation of wells and
boreholes and the construction of hafirs to increase potable
water supplies in the Eastern Region of Sudan.
Program        The program would help about 100,000 farmers increase
Benefits       sorghum and wheat production in the irrigated and rainfed
and Risks:     areas.  It would also increase the number of functional
wel's and hafirs in the Eastern Region. The main risk is
the shortage of fuel for farm machinery and transportation
of project components to the producing areas. However, in
view of the recent decision by several major donors to help
meet Sudan's immediate fuel requirements, this risk seems
manageable. There are also the risks of further rain
failure and delay in project procurement. Participating
implementing agencies were encouraged to prepare tender
documents for items to be financed by the proiect. The
program risks are considered acceptable in view of the
emergency nature of the assistance and the critical needs to
be met.
Thidocument has a rstricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
oftheirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



- ii -
Estimated Program Cost:
USS Million
Component                            Local     Foreign      Total
1. Farm Machinery
(a)  Tractors                               0.6        4.0         4.6
(b)  Spare parts                            0.2        1.0         1.2
Sub-total                         0.8        5.0         5.8
2. Agricultural Inputs
(a)  Fertilizer (45,000 MT)                 3.1        R.5        11.6
(b)  Jute Sacks                             0.4        3.0         3.4
Sub-total                         3.5       11.5        15.0
3. Water Supply
(a)  Rehabilitation of Wells
and Rafirs                           0.2        1.2         1.4
(b) Rehabilitation of
drilling equipment                   0.2        1.1         1.3
(c) Ancillary equipment
vehicles and
materials                            0.2        1.2         1.4
Sub-total                          0.6        3.5        4.1
Total Program Cost                           4.9        20.0       24.A
Of which taxes and duties                    1.9        -           1.9
Total Program Cost
(net of taxes and duties)                    3.0       20.0        23.0
Financing Plan                                      US$ Million
IDA Credit                                   -          20.0       20.0
Government of Sudan                          4.9         -          4.9
Total                                   4.9       20.0        24.9
Estimated Disbursements
USS million
IDA Fiscal Year                       FY86       FY87
Annual                                17.0        3.0
Cumulative                            17.0       20.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map: IBRD No.18959



INTERNATIONAL DFVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TRE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC RFPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR THE DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
W   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Republic of Sudan (the Borrower) for SDR 20.2
million (US$20.0 million equivalent) to finance the Drought Recovery
Program.  The credit would be on standard IMA terms to the Borrower, with
onlending of US$9.0 million equivalent to the Agricultural Bank of Sudan
based on 10 years repayment including 3 years grace, and a service charge
equivalent to 9.6 percent annually with the foreign exchange risk borne by
the Government. US$3.5 million equivalent would be made available to the
National Water Corporation as a grant, and USS7.5 million equivalent would
be made available to the Sudan Gezira Board and the Rahad Corporation as a
cash sale.
PART I - TrE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January 1983.  Its report
('Pricing Policies and Structural Balances") No.4528a-SU of November 10,
1983 has been distributed to the Executive Pirectors. A more recent
economic mission visited Sudan in May 1984 and its report is expected to be
distributed in July 1985. The findings of the missions are reflected
below. Summary tables of social, economic and financial data are presented
in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 19.8 million (1982
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$400. Much of the country is unoccupied
or very sparsely populated. Although about one third of the country is
desert or semi-desert, Sudan has considerable untapped potential for '
agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use.  The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country. An
export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d is planned, but construction has
been interrupted by the unsettled security situation in the southern part
of the country. The public sector has long been important in the Sudanese
economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the railways,



-2-
virtually all power and water supply, and a significant proportion of
industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial enterprises have
been returned to the private sector in recent years, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.
4.        Between 1972/73 aud 1974/75, the deficit on the current account
of the balance of payment increased from US$11 million to about US$470
million and remained between US$450 and US$550 million until 1979/80, when
the combination of a doubling of oil prices and a serious decline in cotton
production pushed the deficit to US$809 million in 1980/81 and US$1.3
billion in 1981/82.  Gross official reserves fell to only a few days worth
of imports. By end 1982, external payments arrears had accumulated to
above $2.2 billion.
5.        The crisis came about largely as the consequence of inadequate
economic management policies compounded by external factors, such as the
sharply increased cost of petroleum imports, which constrained the
Government's ability to respond quickly with effective remedial action.
Adverse developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse
forces -- reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt
problems, and absorptive capacity constraints.
6.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of
international inflation, particularly in 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was,
however, a sharp rise in the volume of imports between 1974/75 and 1977/78;
since then, imports have actually declined in real terms. Exports declined
in real terms by nearly 50 percent between 1972/73 and 1981782. The
decline was concentrated in cotton, which occurred because of a shift from
cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields. The
volume of cotton exports in 1981/82 was less than 15 percent of the 1971/72
level. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems
contributed to this decline, as did declining maintenance in many public'
irrigation schemes.
7.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because of absorptive capacity
problems, disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly in the
mid-1970s, dropping from $465 million in 1974 to $332 million in 1977 and
1978. Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external
donors became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a
difficult choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to
maintain the projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and
borrowing from banks or other sources abroad. The Government decided to
try to sustain the development effort by using reserves and by borrowing
heavily on relatively hard terms. Annual external public debt service
payments falling due increased from $55 million in 1972/73 to more than
$800 million in 1982/83.  The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to
over 100 percent in 1982/83. This unfavorable debt profile led not only to
a heavy current debt service burden, but also has critical implications for
future debt service obligations.



- 3 -
8.        The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which reached 44 percent
in 1976/77. Although the monetary expansion slowed in succeeding years,
the growth rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged nearly 25
percent per year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again rose to
around 50 percent and, after a slowdown in 1981/82, rose again in 1982/83
by around 30 percent.  This contributed to an acceleration in annual price
increases from 6 percent in the early 1970s to over 30 percent in 1982,
1983 and 1984.
9.        Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, starting in 1978 the Government undertook significant
policy changes to establish financial equilibrium, to restore export growth
through appropriate policies and public investments, to improve the
performance of the public corporations, and to install an adequate system
for management of the nation's external debt.
Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs.
10.       An essential aspect of the Government's recovery program since
1979 was a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through
increased exports. This was carried out under the Export Action Program
(EAP), initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of
cotton exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. By mid-1981 the actual production of seed cotton had in fact
declined further, but 1981/82 saw a substantial recovery with a 51 percent
increase in production volume. This improving trend was continued in
1982/83 with a further 23 percent increase, and in 1983/84 another 10
percent increase was realized. Several investments in the irrigated
subsector are supporting this export recovery. Under the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special
Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million), funds were made available for
urgently needed spare parts and equipment. Several rehabilitation projects
are being carried out in the 1980s. The New Halfa Rehabilitation Project,
Credit 1022-SU, approved in May 1980, was the first of these, followed by
projects for the Blue and White Nile. A rehabilitation project for the
largest irrigation scheme, the Gezira, was approved in June, 1983. The
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program II (Credit No. 1389-SU) provided much
needed foreign exchange for purchases of agricultural inputs in the
sub-sector in 1984. In addition, important policy measures were taken in
the areas of cost recovery, cotton pricing and marketing, and institutional
reform. Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government reduced the size of
its overall development program, as reflected in the Six-Year Plan, to a
realistic level consistent with expected external and domestic financial
resources.
Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements.
11.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IMF. The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit



-4-
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agricultural sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
12.       In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81. Subsequently, further measures, together with pledges at a
special Donors Meeting in January 1982 that closed the financing gap in the
program, made it possible in the following month for the IMF to approve a
one-year Stand-by Arrangement for Sudan. However, this program also lapsed
in mid-term because of the Government's inability to comply with all of its
conditions.
13.       Further policy measures were taken in December 1982, including a
44 percent devaluation of the Sudanese Pound. The Government also prepared
a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects, Programmes and
Policies for Economic Development, 1982/83-1984/85 (PPPED); this document
formed the basis for discussions at the Consultative Group Meeting in Paris
in January 1983. The outcome of this meeting, together with a new debt
restructuring package obtained from the Paris Club in February 1983 enabled
the IMF to approve a Stand-by Program for 1983 for a total amount of SDR
170 million, which Sudan completed satisfactorily on February 22, 1984.
14.       At a subsequent Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on
December 14-16, 1983, the Government presented its updated version of the
medium-term recovery program document, and requested program and project
aid to support the recovery program. At this meeting, the Government was
commended by many donors for the actions taken during 1983 to implement its
recovery program, and donor assistance in the form of commodity and project
aid was indicated as likely to be forthcoming at a level which would be
almost adequate to support it. Subsequently additional commodity aid was
promised at a level which the IMF considered to be adequate to close the
financing gap for 1984.
15.       In May 1984, following the December 1983 Consultative Group
Meeting, the Paris Club agreed to reschedule Sudan's official external
debts falling due in 1984 on terms which were consistent with the proposed
IMF Standby Arrangement for 1984, and the new Standby Arrangement was
entered into on June 25, 19B4. The first tranche was drawn down soon
thereafter. However, Sudan was not able to discharge repayments to the IRMF
which fell due in July 1984, and exchange rate adjustments scheduled for
July were not made. Therefore, the IMf Standby Arrangement lapsed shortly
after it had gone into effect, and no further IMF drawings were made
available during 1984.
16.       As a result of the uncertainties regarding the IMF Standby, donor
commodity aid in 1984 lagged well behind the levels anticipated at the
December 1983 Consultative Group Meeting (estimated actual of about $270
million compared to an anticipated $470 million). Also, while export
receipts from irrigated agriculture (i.e. cotton) met expectations in 1984,
drought in the rainfed areas reduced the export of sorghum, groundnuts, and



- 5 -
gum Arabic. With foreign exchange receipts lagging behind expectations due
to the lag in donor aid, IMF drawings, and reduced exports of rainfed
crops, the Government fell behind in its debt service obligations to the
IMF, the Paris Club, and to other bi-lateral creditors.  Ry the end of
December 1984, Sudan was about $260 million in arrears on its official long
term debt oDiigations.
Other Developments
17.       In 1983 the Southern Region, which had previously had a semi-
autonomous status, was divided into three separate regions. Armed
resistance forces emerged in the south, and attacks on the Chevron oil
exploration activities and construction work on the Jonglei Canal caused
these operations to shut down. More recently, Chevron has partially
resumed its operations in Sudan but on a very limited basis.
18.       In August 1983 three measures were enacted into law based on the
Koran, called Sharia laws. These included changes in the penal code,
banning of the sale of alcohol, and a prohibition on the collection of
interest in courts of law. The civil code was extensively revised in March
1984. Early in 1984 direct taxes and some excise taxes were abolished and
replaced with a traditional Islamic tax and welfare system called  Zakat
to be administered by a separate Zakat organization and levied at the local
level for use in part for social welfare purposes.
19.       Starting in September 1984, the Government took steps to reduce
the adverse budgetary effects of the Sharia changes. Most of the direct
taxes which were abolished were restored, sugar retail prices were
increased (from 26 to 30 piasters/lb.), and electric pover tariffs were
increased 21 percent in November 1984 and 23 percent in March 1985. Also,
the exchange rate applicable to most exports and to commercial bank and
commodity aid imports was increased in February 1985 to LS 2.5/US$ (from
1.42 for exports and 1.8 for imports in October 1984) in order to provide
an adequate incentive to exports and to restrain demand for imports. In
November, the Government requested that the ThE send a technical assistance
mission to Sudan to assist in working out a comprehensive adjustment
program which the IMF would find acceptable. A Fund mission went to
Rhartoum for this purpose in December and January, and a follow-up mission
in March of this year was able to confirm that the Government had
a         substantially implemented the recommendations of the December and January
missions, including price increases for petroleum products, bread and wheat
flour, soap, edible oil, pharmaceuticals and electric power tariffs.
Recent Political and Economic Developments
20.       Demonstrations and strikes in the public services began on March
30 in response to the price increases which were put into effect in March.
The demonstrations gained force as the demonstrators broadened their
complaints to include the rough treatment used by the security forces,
mismanagement of the economy, corruption, and the severe punishments
imposed under the Sharia laws. Support for the demonstrations came from
the professional syndicates, the labor unions, and the political parties.



-6-
The Government rescinded the price increases for bread, soap and edible oil
but this did little to appease the demonstrators. On April 6, 1985 a group
of senior military officers led by the Minister of Defence took over the
Government. Decrees were issued, after consultation with the demonstrating
groups, calling for the unification of the country, a guarantee of human
rights and basic freedoms, the creation of a constitution established
through a democratic process, and return to civilian rule after a limited
transition period. All existing Ministers of Go-ernment and Regional
Governors were dismissed, Parliament and the Government-supported political
party SSU were dissolved, and a Transitional Military Council consisting of
15 senior military officers was established to act as a legislative and
policy making body for the country. The Council in turn appointed a
cabinet consisting mainly of civilians to administer the Government during
the transition period.
21.       The new Government is in effective control and enjoys a
reasonable degree of stability and public acceptance. Its statements and
actions, including servicing outstanding Bank loans and IDA credits, show
that it recognizes the past obligations undertaken to the World Bank Group
and, in general, the country's in.ernational obligations. It has so far
acted with caution and restraint regarding economic policies, and has
indicated that it appreciates and hopes to continue the donor support which
has been assisting in drought relief and support for the economy. While it
is too early to have a clear indication of future economic policies, it is
encouraging that the new Government has not rescinded any further measures
put in place by the previous Government in February and March. While there
is still no resolution of the difficult arrears situation, non-project aid
flows have increased substantially since the change of Government and the
shortage of petroleum, which was hampering transport activities, has at
least temporarily been relieved.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SUDAN
22.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$1,009.5 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 37 credits for a
total of 39 projects. Twenty projects are under implementation. Over
50 percent of total Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development:
seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, four
smallholder development projects; two livestock marketing projects; an
agricultural research project; two Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
Credits, an agricultural credit project; and a sugar rehabilitation
project. Projects in other sectors include: three power projects, three
education projects, three highway projects, a domestic aviation project,
four railway projects, two port projects, two technical assistance
projects, two industrial credit projects,and a petroleum development
project. Over the past two years, IFC has been assisting the Government
and White Nile Petroleum Company in preparing and mobilizing funds for a
major export pipeline project as part of the development of the Unity and
Heglig oil fields. Annex II contains a su mary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985.



23.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries takes its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects.  There have also been lengthy delays in meeting
effectiveness conditions, mainly because of problems in establishing new
institutions or project accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary
legal documentation, or concluding required co-financing arrangements.
These problems have been brought to the attention of Government
authorities, both through supervision missions and annual Country
Implementation Reviews, and steps have been taken to resolve some of them
such as in procurement and obtaining legal opinions.
24.       The disbursement rate, i.e., actual disbursements during the year
as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year,
declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81, but the rate
improved markedly to 27.7 percent in FY82 and 25.8 percent in FY83. The
FY84 disbursement rate declined to 10_0 percent, as compared to 23.0
percent for Eastern Africa and 23.4 percent Bank-wide, as the result of
delays in implementation of several large projects and the completion of
disbursements of the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (IDA Credit
1000-SU). However, disbursements have increased substantially in FYS5 due
to the disbursement of the entire proceeds of ARP II (IDA Credit 1389-SU)
in this fiscal year.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
25.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15 percent o' total aid flows to the Sudan.  We
expect that this relationship will continue at about the same level during
the next several fears. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
only about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in
1983. While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.
Assistance Strategy
26.       The Bank Group assistance strategy has been to encourage tne
Government to undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at
addressing the structural imbalances in the economy. We have been working
very closely with the Government and the IMF in the development and
implementation of Sudan's economic recovery program, which formed the basis
for Consultative Group meetings in January and December, 1983 and Standby
Arrangements with the IMF. This was followed by the creation of a Joint
Monitoring Committee (JMC), where the aid donors and the Government jointly
monitor progress in carrying out the program, and continued Bank
involvement in reviewing updated versions of the recovery program. The key
elements of the strategy are:
-    Improved Balance of Payments:  support for development projects
and policy actions which help the country to generate or save



foreign exchange, with investment priority given to
rehabilitation of existing capital investments.
-    Key Infrastructure:  support for infrastructure projects which
relieve the most critical bottlenecks inhibiting productive
output (power, transport).
-    Resource Mobilization:  encouragement to Government to increase
the level of domestic resource mobilization as the basis for
sustained increases in output.
-    Longer-Term Development:  assistance to Government to prepare the
way for longer term development activities through improving
research and extension, and studies of irrigated water use
priorities and rainfed agricultural potential.
27.       At the sector level, IDA has continued to emphasize the
rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture, Sudan's major export earner, plus
improvements in infrastructure needed to service the agricultural sector.
The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program I was effective in providing badly
needed spare parts and replacement machinery for the irrigated sector, as
well as encouraging the Government to take some important steps toward
improving incentives to farmers through better cotton prices and costing
arrangements for the irrigated schemes, and the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program II (IDA Credit 1389-SU) followed up this earlier effort with the
financing of recurrent agricultural inputs.
28.       On the whole, the Bank's assistance strategy has been effective
in encouraging the Government to undertake measures which have restored
cotton production to the levels achieved in the early 1970s. During the
past three years, exports have expanded and the foreign exchange gap has
been reduced, the Public Investment Program has been appropriate, and some
internal production (i.e. sugar and cement) has expanded. No progress was
made, however, in increasing the proportionate level of resource
mobilization, and parastatal financial losses remain at a high level.
During 1984, in part because of the uncertainties caused by the Sharia law
changes and the insurgency in the south, the recovery program seemed to be
coming off the track. The actions taken in February and March to put the
program back on a sound basis caused a political reaction as described in
para. 19, but nevertheless most of these measures remain in place.
Relationship of Drought Recovery
Program to Bank Strategy
29.       The principal objective of the Drought Recovery Program (DRP)
will be to provide emergency assistance needed to increase food production
in Sudan in the short term. As such, it vill help to alleviate the need
for the massive food imports required this year, will restore the economic
production capacity of the country, and will reduce the dislocations caused
by the movement of farm families from drought stricken areas. Thus, it
will reduce Sudan's dependence on outside assistance and imports consistent
with the Rank's assistance strategy, and will help to avoid further
deterioration of the economy which would make the longer term Aevelopment
objectives even more difficult to achieve.



-9-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
30.       The agricultural sector dominates the Sudanese economy.  It
provides for the livelihood of 80 percent of the population and contributes
about 40 percent of GDP and 95 percent of exports. The Bank published a
survey of the Agricultural Sector in May 1979 (Report No. 1836a-SU) and a
review of the sector is included in the Bank economic report 'Sudan -
Investing for Economic Stabilization and Structural Change' issued in
February 1982 (Report No. 3551a-SU).
31.       About 20 million feddans of Sudan's central plains are cultivated
annually, of which 4.2 million feddans are under irrigation. The rest is
under rainfed cultivation, both mechanized and traditional.
The Irrigated Sub-sector
32.       About 85 percent of the irrigated land (3.4 million feddans) are
managed by public corporations: The Sudan Gezira Board (2 million
feddans), New Halfa (0.4 million feddans), Rahad (0.3 million feddans), and
the Blue and White Nile Pump Schemes (0.7 million feddans). About 50
percent of agricultural export earnings were derived from cotton in the
L970-80 decade, mostly from the irrigation schemes managed by these
corporations.
33.       The pattern of production relations developed at Gezira, the
oldest and largest scheme, has served as a model for the others. After
attempts to use wage labor and a rental system failed, a partnership was
developed based on the traditional allocation of crop shares on lands
adjacent to the scheme. Revenues were divided between the Government,
which was responsible for developing and providing irrigation to the land;
a corporation responsible for agricultural services; and tenants
responsible for supplying labor, seed, tools and farm animals. Under this
system, most of the items of expenditure incurred by agricultural
corporations for the different crops grown on the tenancies were deducted
from the total revenues received from cotton sales by the corporation
concerned.
34.       This arrangement, called the "Joint Account System," penalized
the more productive cotton growers, whose costs per quantity of output were
lower than the less productive farmers.  The most serious consequences of
the Joint Account System, however, were felt when cotton yields fell at the
same time as other crops such as sorghum, grounduuts and wheat, became
increasingly important. These other crops are privately marketed, so that
the corporation could not recover input costs at sale. Therefore, land and
water costs for these crops had to be recovered from cotton revenues.
Cotton, bearing the burden of these other charges, became less and less
attractive to tenants, who increasingly devoted more attention to other
crops and off-farm activities, while producing corporations were unable to
cover maintenance costs and replace equipment. Declining exports also led
to shortages of the foreign exchange needed to buy spare parts and inputs.
Inputs were delivered late, cultivation techniques deteriorated, and yields
of a3l crops fell. Also, the producer price of cotton was held low by the
Government to maximize short term budgetary revenues in the face of a weak
fiscal base strained for cash to finance new investments.



- 10 -
35.       The effect of all of these factors was a sharp decline In the
volume of exports of Sudan's traditional cash crops, long staple (ELS)
cotton, sesame and groundnuts. The annual export volume of these three
crops averaged only 81,000 tons, 41,000 tons and 43,000 tons respectively
during the 1979-81 period, compared to 168,000 tons, 70,000 tons and 99,000
tons in 1972-74. Only because the terms of trade were in Sudan's favor
during the period, both for cotton and for oilseeds, was the decline in
value not more dramatic. Nevertheless, the reduction in agricultural
exports played a major part in Sudan's current economic difficulties.
36.       Strategy for Revival of Agricultural Exports.  Recognizing the
severity of the problem, the Government, with the help of the Bank, drew up
the Export Action Program in 1980 designed to restore production to the
levels of the early 1970s. The EAP contained provisions for: (i) urgently
needed investments aimed at satisfying requirements for spare parts,
machinery and equipment in order to arrest decapitalization which has
plagued the sub-sector; (ii) allocation of foreign exchange to finance
larger imports of current inputs; (iii) a series of rehabilitation
projects, with IDA support, to be carried out in the 1980s, principally in
the major agricultural schemes where cotton is grown; and (iv) policy
reforms and other actions such as institutional reforms and revision of the
incentive systems intended to stimulate greater production.
37.       In line with the strategy embodied in the EAP, IDA financed
projects for the rehabilitation of the New Halfa (Credit 1022-SU), Blue
Nile Pump (Credit 1118-SU), and White Nile Pump (Credit 1119-SU) schemes.
Another IDA credit, to finance the rehabilitation of the Gezira irrigated
areas, was signed in August 1983 although it just became effective in Nay
1985 due to problems with co-financing originally planned for financing
part of the project. A Sugar Rehabilitation Project, for the four sugar
units in the public sector, was signed in August 1984. All rehabilitation
projects include measures to improve management capabilities, such as the
design of regular work programs and improved financial management,
technical assistance and training.
38.       About 15 percent of the irrigated land consists of privately
owned small farms extending along the Nile North of Khartoum to the
Egyptian border. Other private schemes have been established along the
White Nile and Blue Nile Basin. While the large irrigation schemes (para.
32) have concentrated on cotton production, the private schemes have
specialized in food, vegetables and forage crops. The IDA financed
-Agricultural Services Project' (Credit 1201-SU) and IFAD financed
"Northern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project" are designed to
provide private schemes in the Northern Province with necessary farm
inputs, water pumps, farm machinery, and agricultural credit. These
projects support the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS), the Northern Region
Ministry of Agriculture and other local institutions. ABS's performance
under the Agricultural Services Project has been very good, and has
demonstrated its competence to handle procurement, supervised credit
and collections.
39.       Results Achieved.  On the whole, available evidence indicates
that the Export Action Program has reversed the downward slide in
production and productivity in the irrigated sub-sector. After a further



- 11 -
decline in 1980/81, cotton production increased 51 percent in 1981/A2 (59
percent increase in the irrigated areas) compared to the previous year,
another 23 percent in 1982/83 compared to 1981/R2, and another 10 percent
in 1983/84 compared to 1982/83. Yields have increased for all the major
crops (cotton, groundnuts and sorghum). In the Gezira, for example, yields
of long and medium staple cotton have increased from 2.1 kantars/feddan
(k/fd) and 3.9 k/fd respectively in 1980/R1 to 4.0 k/fd and 5.8 k/fd,
representing 90 and 49 percent increases. These yields are back to earlier
historical levels, and reflect not only measures taken in the context of
the Government's Export Action Program as outlined above, but also the much
improved availability of critical inputs -- water, seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides and machinery services.
The Rainfed Sub-Sector
40.       More than 50 percent of Sudan's total rainfed crop area (16
million feddans) is under mechanized farming in the Eastern and Central
Regions. The rest is traditionally cultivated by small farmers, largely in
the Southern Kordofan, and Darfur regions.
41.       In the mechanized farming areas, about six millior. feddans are
cultivated by individual farmers, and about two million feddans by Sudanese
or foreign commercial companies. The Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC)
supervises farming operations on 3.6 million fd. which are divided into
farms of 1,000-1,500 feddans each rented at an annual rate of two Sudanese
pounds per feddan for a period of 25 years to individual farmers. So far,
about 6,000 farmers have been registered at MFC as cultivators. Under MFC
rental arrangements, the corporation provides farmers with limited
services, and certifies them for credit from the Agricultural Bank of
Sudan. MFC is also expected to guarantee fuel supplies and spare parts.
Some of MFC's services have been financed under the Mechanized Farming
Project III (IDA Credit 804-SU). In addition to the area under T'FC
supervision, there are about two million feddans of undemarcated land
cultivated by unregistered farmers. This area is largely marginal
agricultural land and its cultivation has created conflicts with livestock
owners, has contributed to soil erosion, and has seriously increased the
rate of desertification.
42.       In 1982, the mechanized rainfed sub-sector produced more than 70
percent of Sudan's sorghum and 40 percent of its sesame.  About 25 percent
of this sub-sector's production under normal conditions is exported to
Saudi Arabia and other Middle Eastern countries. Mechanized farms use
imported inputs, mainly tractors, fuel and spare parts, for land
preparation and planting. Weeding and harvesting are still done by hand.
43.       The traditional rainfed sub-sector employs more than 8s  percent
of Sudan's rural labor force in the central, eastern, western and southern
regions. Major products of this sub-sector include gum arabic, livestock,
groundnuts, sorghum, millet and sesame. These are produced by traditional
farming methods which are labor intensive and do not use imported inputs.
Hand operations are used in lieu of machinery. Annual production in the
traditional sub-sector can vary from as low as 500,000 tons of sorghum to a
high of over 1,000,000 tons of sorghum and 100,000 tons to 200,ono tons of



- 12 -
sesame. Such large fluctuations are apt to influence local markets by
raising prices when supplies are short and depressing prices when
production is high. The failure of the 19R3/84 sorghum and sesame crop in
the traditional sub-sector is estimated to have reduced foreign exchange
earnings by around 17S$120 million in 1983 alone.
44.       The overall production of the rainfed sector increased steadily
in the early 1970s and peaked in 1978-1990. Output of sorghum, millet,
groundnuts and sesame increased during this period through expansion of the
area cropped while yields declined due to declining fertility of the areas
under continuous cultivation.
Rural Water Supplies
45.       In areas where groundwater can be tapped, shallow and deep wells
have provided dependable supplies of drinking water to many Sudanese
communities. In areas where there may be no usable sources of groundwater,
water is obtained by catching and storing surface runoff in open ponds
called 'hafirs". Such ponds, with a capacity ranging from a few thousand
cubic meters to over 100,000 m3, can be filled either by directing runoff
from an adjacent tract of land arranged to serve a local catchment, or by a
diversion from nearby seasonal streams. The National Water Corporation
(NWC), a wholly-owned Government subsidiary, and its regional offices are
responsible for well drilling and hafir construction. NWC with assistance
from several donors, has accelerated a program of rural water supply aimed
at expanding water availability to one million people each year. Since the
initiation of this program in 1981, the situation has deteriorated rather
than improved. The severe drought reduced the fraction of the population
in rainfed areas having a dependable and safe supply of drinking water.
The effort to alleviate the present plight and to regenerate progress in
rainfed areas has become an urgent imperative to the revival and
improvement of rainfed agriculture.
Relevance of the Rainfed Sub-Sector to the Bank's Strategy in Sudan
46.       The Bank Group's assistance strategy for this sub-sector has been
to assist the Government to formulate an action program to address the
constraints to its development. IDA has supported the successful
implementation of the Western Savannah Development Project (Credit No.
1181-SU) and a second phase is being processed to be financed in FY1986.
The Western Sudan Research Project (Credit No. 834-SU) and Livestock
Marketing Project (Credit No. 782-SU) have been designed to improve
production in Sudan's rainfed areas. The Mechanized Farming Project III
(Credit No. 804-SU) is the last of a three-phase project supported by IDA
to expand production under mechanized farming including institution
building, provision of farm machinery, and improving research, extension
and other field services to the farmers in this sub-sector. Results
achieved in the rainfed areas have so far been limited to identifying
suitable production technology for the savannah zone, and in defining areas
where policy matters have to be articulated, especially in relation to
credit, land resource management, and institutional responsibilities.



- 13 -
Impact of Drought on the Country
47.       Climate and Rainfall.  Sudan is situated in a transition zone
between the humid tropics and the desert. The Ethiopian highlands and the
humid tropics provide Sudan with water in the Nile and its tributaries
which is the basis for the country's irrigated agriculture. Proximity to
the desert, on the other hand, subjects the non-irrigated lands of Sudan to
the periodic threat of drought. MIore than two-thirds of the country is
arid or semi-arid, with the degree of aridity increasing northward, as mean
annual rainfall varies from over 1,200 millimeters in the south to less
than 50 in the north. Recently, however, drought has become more
frequent. Rainfall records for the Sudan zone show a severe drought during
the 1910-1915 period, followed by a relatively steady rainfall period from
1915 to 1950, followed by a decade of above average, but declining rainfall
from 1950 to 1960. That decline, beginning about 1950 and falling below
the long term average in about 1970, has continued to the present day. It
has been the longest and most severe downward trend on record. Not only
has the trend been downwards, with rainfall seasons becoming shorter, but
the variability within the trend has increased. However, although the
period since 1970 has produced rainfall consistently below the average,
with the last 3 years being particularly severe, there is no strong
statistical evidence that Sudan has moved permanently to a lower rainfall
regime.
48.       The effect of the drought on agriculture has been severe.  As a
general rule in Sudan where evaporation is high and rainfed farming is
based on rainfall in the hot summer months, farming can be sustained only
if mean seasonal rainfall exceeds 450 mm, and if no more than one season
out of five has less than 350. In each of the last three years, however,
seasonal rainfall dipped below 250 mm over large areas in Sudan and as a
final blow, fell as low as 100 mm in large rainfed zones last year. The
result has been widespread crop failure, drying of storage ponds, depletion
of shallow wells, destruction of natural vegetation by grazing and the
collection of firewood, and decimation of livestock herds. Numerous
villages have been abandoned and their population displaced. In the
absence of seeds, tools, fuel, capital, and even workers, no quick or
spontaneous recovery of agriculture can be expected even if, as hoped, the
next few seasons provide ample rainfall unless an urgent program of
material and technical assistance is implemented.
Effects On the Economy
49.       The worst hit areas stretch mainly across the middle of the
country from about Atbara in the North to Kosti in the south with branches
running up the Nile to the North and to the east in the Port Sudan area.
Approximately one-third of the population are believed to be directly and
seriously affected by the drought. The highest percentage affected within
one region is the Eastern Region with over 50 percent of the people
affected including a large number of refugees from Ethiopia.



- 14 -
50.       At the aggregate economic level, the impact of drought has been
somewhat attenuated by Sudan's substantial irrigation areas. Nevertheless,
the fall in rainfed yields has reduced the agricultural GDP quite
severely. From a relatively flat base of about LSdl,400 million over the
78/79 to 80/81 period, GDP rose to 1,670 million in 81/82 and then fell
back to LSdl,375 million in 1983/84. Food production has declined and in
1984 grain production was about 2 million tons, or one third below what is
required, and about one-third of the population has been seriously
affected. Food aid is currently flowing in to meet the deficit. The
cancellation of all export licenses for sorghum and oil seeds in 1982-85
cost the country about US$400 million in foreign exchange over the
three-year period. Without this source of funds, the country is unable to
import farm machinery or other farm inputs. It is at the farmers' and
pastoralists' level rather than aggregate economic level that the impact of
drought can be seen in human terms. Many farmers have harvested nothing
for two or three years. The initial response was to turn to non--'arming
sources of income such as wood collection and selling off assets such as
livestock. Once these assets were depleted, families abandoned villages.
Many moved to the large irrigation schemes or to Khartoum to find casual
work for food. Large permanent population movements from No-;th- Kordofan
and North Darfur have been reported in addition to more thau one million
refugees who have entered Sudan from neighboring countries.
51.       Effects on Agriculture.  Sorghum, Sudan's most important staple
food, is in short supply. The country produces an annual average of 2.5
million tons of which 300,000 tons were exported to neighboring countries
prior to 1982. Production in the last three seasons averaged 1.4 million
tons. Similarly, production of oil seeds was reduced by 50 percent and
annual. exports which previously averaged 100,000 tons were cancelled. In
1984, millet production, grown on three million feddans in Northwest Sudan,
was 150,000 tons or 40 percent of annual production, and wheat production
was 20 percent of that production in previous seasons. In the livestock
sector, substantial reductions in the national herd have occurred, due both
to distress sales and to deaths due to dehydration and starvation. Animal
feed is scarce, large areas of rangeland in the North have been overgrazed,
and surviving livestock are concentrating in southern grazing areas which
poses a serious danger to both animal health and to the grazing and fodder
reserves in this zone. Available data do not permit a reliable assessment
but the reduction in the national herd size is estimated to be about 20
percent of the 1982/83 base.
52.       Effects on Rainfed Agriculture.  Sudanese farmers in the rainfed
zone continued to cultivate despite a decrease in rainfall during the past
three seasons. Indeed, the area under cultivation actually increased,
apparently in an effort by farmers to compensate for a decline in
productivity with repeated crop failures in the last three seasons,
and farmers' investments in land preparation and seeds were not recovered.
Many farmers have not been able to replace their machinery or to replenish
their seed supplies. Farmers' requests submitted to the Agricultural Bank
of Sudan for farm machinery, spare parts, and seeds loans have increased



- 15 -
substantially. For farm machinery alone, the number of requests for
tractors has increased from an average of about 400 in the previous season
to about 800 in 1984. The Government estimated that about 35,000 tons of
additional seeds are needed for sorghum, millet, wheat and grounduuts to
meet farmers' needs in the traditional areas. This situation could lead to
a reduction in cultivated area and hence sorghum and sesame production in
the coming years.
53.       Effects on Irrigated Agriculture.  The drought has increased
the country's reliance on the irrigated areas. Refugees from Western Sudan
have temporarily settled in the irrigated triangle between Kosti, Sennar,
and Wad Medani seeking employment and food. Because of a decline in the
flow of water in the Nile River, wheat cultivation was not permitted on the
Gezira and New Halfa Schemes during 1984/85. With a reduction in rainfed
sorghum production, the large irrigated schemes are being called on to
increase food production. Indeed, the area under irrigated sorghum
cultivation in 1984/85 was 50 percent higher than the previous season. If
not well supervised and planned, farmers may respond to the high local
prices for sorghum by expanding sorghum production at the expense of
cotton, a crop with a higher economic return to the country. Failure to
address this point could adversely affect cotton production on these
schemes, especially if drought conditions continue in the coming seasons.
54.       Effects of Water Supplies on Human and Agriculture in Rainfed
Areas. Over large areas in northern, eastern and western Sudan, water
supplies have dwindled drastically because of the prolonged drought, and in
many cases have run out entirely. The aquifers which are normally
recharged by the excess of rainfall over evapotranspiration, as well as by
seepage from seasonal streams, have apparently not been so recharged during
the drought. In the absence of recharge, the continuing extraction of
water from wells (coupled with natural drainage) has caused the water table
to fall so that numerous shallow wells have ceased to be operational.
Consequently, these wells have been neglected and their equipment has
deteriorated for lack of maintenance. Some of the boreholes are clogged,
in some the casings and pipes (often of inferior materials) have rusted,
and the tanks and troughs are no longer water tight.
55.       An analogous situation exists in areas served by ponds (hafirs).
Nearly all of the hafirs have dried out owing to incomplete filling during
the rainy season, to seepage into the cracked soil, and especially to the
heavy evaporation induced by the sun and the hot dry winds. In many of the
hafirs, the inlet structures are clogged, the bottoms are silted up, the
outlet structures are in disrepair, and there are no elevated storage tanks
or filters to ensure the supply of clean potable water even when the rains
do come. In the case of self-catchment hafirs, the area meant to
contribute surface runoff is so dry and cracked that hardly any runoff can
be expected in early season. Hence it will be some months before these
hafirs are likely to fill up again even if the coming rainy season will be
a normal one. In the case of stream filled hafirs, in some cases the
diversion structures have been silted up. The perennial problem of
maintenance is exacerbated by the drought, as people leave their villages
and abandon the hafirs as well as their wells.



- 16 -
Government's Response to Longer-Term Drought Issues
56.       The Government's response to the drought has primarily been
short-term. The lives of a large number of people have been threatened,
and meeting the immediate need of obtaining and delivering food and water
has been the priority. Areas affected by the drought have been receiving
food aid from bilateral and UN relief agencies. The World Food Program,
the European Economic Community and the United States are mobilizing aid to
provide about 1.4 million tons of food, and are preparing emergency
packages of medical supplies, water drilling equipment, and other items
needed to sustain refugee settlements in Sudan.  However, in the longer
term the Government does intend to address a range of Issues relevant to
rainfed agriculture and drought. For this purpose, the Government has
appointed four Task Forces supported by a SPPF from IDA: (i) a Pricing
Marketing and Incentives Task Force; (1i) a Technology Task Force; (iii) a
Land Tenure Task Force; and    (iv) an Organization, Institutions, Finance
and Credit Task Force. These task forces started operation in April 1985
and will submit their reports before the end of the year. Thereafter,
their findings will be discussed with IDA to develop an action program to
address these longer-term issues. The Government Strategy Statement at
Annex VI outlines the Government's intentions in this respect. Agreement
was obtained during negotiations that by December 31, 1985, the Government
would discuss with IDA the recommendations of the Task Forces and a
detailed plan of action for the implementation of agreed recommendations
(Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement). The IDA lending
program includes projects in the forestry and rainfed sectors in the late
eighties which would benefit from the development of such a strategy.
PART IV - THE DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
57.       An IDA mission visited Sudan in March 1985 to design and appraise
the proposed program in consultation with the Government. A Credit and
Project Summary is provided at the beginning of this Report. There is no
Staff Appraisal Report. Negotiations were held in Washington DC from May
20-22, 1985. The delegation was led by Mr. Yousri Gabr, Deputy Under
Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
Project Rationale
58.       The principal objective of the drought recovery program would be
to provide emergency assistance needed to increase food production in Sudan
in order to reduce Sudan's sizeable food deficit and to help restore the
economy to its pre-drought level of agricultural output. A secondary
objective would be to alleviate the economic distress caused to farmers in
Sudan as a result of the drought by restoring their capacity to resume
agricultural production. The program would also help to alleviate the
serious foreign exchange constraint imposed on the economic recovery
program by the drought, and will serve to encourage the Government to carry
out the development of a long-term strategy for the rainfed agricultural
sub-sector. The program design is based on experience with other drought



- 17 -
projects which have demonstrated that effective results can be obtained
when consideration is given to short-term targets, within a simplified
framework designed to meet the urgent needs of the affected farming
communities. The program would be short-term, with the bulk of the
disbursements expected to be completed by December 31, 1986. In view of
the short-term nature of the program, procurement and distribution would be
handled by existing institutions which are already capable of performing
these functions. Assistance would he provided both to rainfed and
irrigated food producing areas, including areas adversely affected by the
drought as well as those not directly affected but which have good
potential for expanding food production in the short term. The program has
been designed to complement the recovery assistance which is expected to be
provided by other aid organizations.
The Structure of the Drought Recovery Program
59.       The program will focus on (a) restoring food production capacity
in the high potential zones, and (b) improving potable water supplies to
some of the drought affected areas. A key consideration in the design of
the program would be a quick impact on a short term basis. The program
will mainly provide urgently needed inputs for food production in the
irrigated and mechanized rainfed areas during 1985/86 season. The
improvement of potable water supplies was included because drinking water
must be available to farmers if they are to remain in the producing areas.
The program components have been selected after a careful review of what
other donors are doing in this area. Drought recovery coordination within
the Government will be carried out by the National Committee for Combating
Drought and Desertification established for this purpose and chaired by the
Head of State with representation of the concerned ministries and agencies.
Program Components
60.       Farmers in the mechanized farming areas are heavily dependent on
farm machinery. They obtain seeds locally and use little or no fertilizers
or herbicides. Their urgent needs are tractors and spare parts. Farmers
in the irrigated areas can increase their food production by applying
fertilizers. Farmers in the traditional sector can reduce post harvest
losses if an adequate supply of jute sacks is available. Seeds are also in
short supply but these will be provided by several other donors to the
extent feasible.
61.       Farm Machinery (USS5.0 million).  Production of the mechanized
farming schemes has declined in the last three seasons because of limited
rainfall. Farmers have been unable to replace aging machinery because of
repeated crop failures which have eroded their incomes, even though
maintenance capability in the country is adequate as indicated by the fact
that the average tractor life in the private sector is more than 10 years.
In addition, the shortage of foreign exchange reduced the availability of
machinery in the local market. About 800 farmers have applied for new
tractors through the Agricultural Bank of Sudan (ABS) and its branches in
1984 but ARS could only provide about 200 because of lack of foreign
exchange. If this situation continues, the area under cultivation will



- 18 -
decline, sorghum production will be substantially reduced, and the food
shortage will be aggravated. To address this problem, the proposed PRP
provides US$5 million to purchase tractors and spare parts through ARS.
62.       Fertilizers (US$8.5 Million).  In an attempt to reduce the food
gap in the country, MDA has requested all irrigation schemes to increase
areas under food crop cultivation and to apply fertilizers where possible.
The Sudan Gezira Board (SGB) is advancing the use of a high yielding hybrid
sorghum recently released by the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC).
SGB has produced 200 tons of seeds of this hybrid (Hageen 1) which would be
planted on about 40,000 fd in 1985186. In addition, SGB would plant
locally improved sorghum on about 360,000 fd. About 60,f000 fd of locally
improved sorghum would be planted at Rahad. This plan, designed to double
food production under irrigation, would require additional supplies of
fertilizers. Available fertilizers in the country, or promised by other
donors, would only be enough for the 85/86 cotton crop. There is an urgent
need for about 80,000 tons of fertilizers for irrigated sorghum, wheat and
vegetables. The DRP would provide about US$8.5 million for 45,000 tons of
fertilizers for use on Gezira (30,000 tons); Rahad (10,000 tons), and 5,000
tons for private irrigated areas to be distributed through ABS.
63.       Sacecs (US$3.0 million).  The shortage of sacks during 1984/85
resulted in substantial crop losses throughout the country especially among
small farmers in the traditional sector. Farmers were unable to harvest on
time and many faced problems in storage and transport as a result of this
shortage. DRP would provide ABS with US$3.0 million for this component,
which is sufficient to procure approximately 15,000 bales of 200 sacks
each, enough to store about 300,000 tons of grain produced in the rainfed
areas.
64.       Potable Water Supplies (US$3.5 Million).  The requirements for
water supplies to farmers and their livestock include the needs for (a)
rehabilitating existing wells, (b) drilling new wells in areas where
perennial ground water resources are proven, (c) rehabilitating existing
hafirs which have either silted up or deteriorated because of broken or
clogged inlet structure or lack of appropriate outlet system including
filtration, and (d) building new hafirs where needed. Because of the
deteriorated conditions of many of the existing wells, their rehabilitation
does not seem practical and redrilling in the same site may be necessary.
65.       The DRP would concentrate mainly on areas which are not covered
by other donors, especially the Eastern Region which has a considerable
production potential which justifies this investment. Providing permanent
water supplies to this region would allow for the stability of farming
communities involved in mechanized rainfed farming.
66.       DRP would finance US$3.5 million for the repair of four rigs
owned by NWC, material for the drilling of 40 deep wells and renabilitating
an additional 40 wells in 1985/86, appropriate support vehicles, pumps and
filters, equipment and material for wells and hafir rehabilitation to be
operated by the NWC's Eastern Regional Office.



- 19 -
Program Implementation
67.       The Program would be implemented by ABS, SGB, the Rahad
Corporation and NWC. These institutions are satisfactorily implementing
projects financed by IDA. A program steering committee chaired by the
Undersecretary, MOFEP, and comprising representatives of above agencies is
being established to coordinate and monitor timely procurement and
distribution and submission of withdrawal applications to IDA.
68.       ABS would import and make available about 450 tractors and
associated spare parts and about 15,000 bales of jute sacks to mechanized
farmers and approximately 45,000 tons of fertilizer for distribution to
SGB, the Rahad Corporation and to private irrigated farmers. ABS would
provide tractors for cash or four-year loans and would make available
agricultural inputs under one year seasonal cropping and harvest loans.
All inputs will be priced at full cost calculated at the official rate of
exchange, which is the same rate used for pricing agricultural exports.
Both types of loans would include annual charges equivalent to rot less
than 14 percent of the outstanding loan balance (Schedule 4, para. 2(c),
draft Development Credit Agreement). These terms have been reviewed and
agreed for IDA financed or administered projects for the Northern Region
and Agricultural Services Projects. Tractor distribution among farmers
will be based on a plan agreed among the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MOFEP), the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and ABS, which ensures
that tractors will be provided to farmers cultivating land not conflicting
with forestry or grazing enterprises, and restricted to areas already under
cultivation in zones where degradation is considered not to be a risk
(Schedule 4, para. 2(b), draft Development Credit Agreement). This plan
was reviewed by the Association during negotiations and was found to be
acceptable.
69.       Financing of tractors and spare parts (US$5 million), jute sacks
(US$3 million) and 5,000 tons of fertilizer (US$1 million) would be onlent
from MOFEP to ABS at 9.6 percent interest and repayment over 10 years
including 3 years grace with the foreign exchange risk borne by the
Government (Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Conversion of dollars to Sudanese pounds will be at the official exchange
rate at the time the loan is made. Receipts of local currency from the
sale of these components, on either cash or credit terms, would remain
available to ABS for use in its program of seasonal credit to farmers.
70.       ABS would be responsible for procurement of about 45,000 MT of
fertilizer (US$8.5 million) for distribution to SGB of 30,000 MT and Rahad
Corporation for 10,000 MT. In anticipation of possible delay in receiving
fertilizers financed by this program before July 1985, and because sorghum
fertilizer should be applied to sorghum during this period, SGB and Rahad
would make necessary arrangements to ensure early availability of
fertilizer for sorghum from existing stocks and later replenished when
fertilizers under DRP are received.  The sale of fertilizer to tenants at
Gezira and Rahad will be on the basis of full cost pricing, calculated at
the official rate of exchange. Local currency proceeds from the sale of
fertilizer would be collected by the corporations and paid into a special
account established in the Bank of Sudan for this purpose (Schedule 4,



- 20 -
para. 4(c), draft Development Credit Agreement). These funds would be
available for financing of development projects included in the
Government's budget and public investment program (PPPED) (Section 3.03,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
71.       NWC which is already involved in implementing the water component
under the Western Savannah Project (IDA Credit No. 718-SU) and the New
Halfa Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit No. 1022-SU) would be responsible
for procurement of pumps, engines, and spare parts for drill rigs, and
other items listed under the water component. NWC would submit to IDA by
July 31, 1985, a drilling program in the project area before drilling or
rehabilitation work begins, including a detailed description of sites
selected for drilling or rehabilitating existing wells, and a detailed
implementation program including arrangements for reasonable cost recovery
for reliable operation and maintenance of wells and bafirs financed under
the project by July 31, 1985 (Schedule 4, para. 5, draft Development Credit
Agreement). Instead of purchasing new rigs, DRP would assist NUC to repair
the existing rigs and would provide funds for spare parts needed for
their rehabilitation according to a detailed list to be prepared by NWC and
submitted to IDA at negotiations. The drilling program should be completed
within 18 months of project effectiveness, and IDA would monitor its
implementation and needs through several supervision missions during this
period.
Program Cost Estimate and Financing.
72.       Total program cost is estimated at $24.9 million equivalent,
including duties and taxes of about $1.9 million. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at $20.0 million or 87 percent of total program
cost, net of duties and taxes, of S23.0 million. Costs are based on April
1985 prices, projected to September 1985 levels. Since procurement of all
goods, equipment and vehicles is likely to take place at that time and
since the amount of funds available will determine quantities to be
purchased, contingencies have not been applied to the cost estimates. A
detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Program Summary.
73.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 20.2 million (US$20 million
equivalent) would finance all foreign costs representing about 87 percent
of the total program cost, net of taxes and duties. The Government would
finance the local costs of $3.0 million equivalent, plus taxes and duties.
Of the proposed IDA credit, the Government would make available about $9.0
million to ABS for tractors and spares (US$5.0 million), jute sacks (US$3.0
million) and fertilizers (US$1 million). The program would finance US$8.5
million equivalent foreign exchange from the Credit proceeds for import of
about 45,000 m.t. of fertilizers, 5,000 m.t. (US$1.0 million) of which
would in turn be made available to ARS. Fertilizers made available to
Gezira and Rahad would be paid for these corporations on a cash basis. It
would also provide NUC on a grant basis with about US$3.5 million
equivalent foreign exchange for import of spares for drill rig spare parts
and other equipment needed for the water supply component.



- 21 -
Retroactive Financing and PPF
74.       ABS has requested that the shortage of tractors in the rainfed
areas be urgently addressed. ABS's immediate needs are 450 tractors for
purchase if funds are available. A Project Preparation Facility tPPF) was
approved for one million US dollars to finance spare parts and the first
shipment of tractors. Also, retroactive financing up to US$2 million for
procurement occurring after the appraisal (April 15, 1985) will be
permitted if the Government can obtain foreign exchange for inputs under
the DRP for procurement of program components in accordance with IDA
procedures.
Procurement and Disbursement
75.       All items to be financed by the program are urgently needed.
Special procedures would therefore be justified to ensure speedy delivery
but also encourage reasonable competition among suppliers. Fertilizer
(US$8.5 million) and jute sacks (US$3.0 million) would be procured through
international competitive bidding. An advertisement giving full
specifications and delivery requirements would be placed in the local press
and would be circulated to embassies of Bank member countries, calling for
sealed or telexed replies within 30 days. Bids would quote cost and
freight value in US dollars, valid for 60 days. Specific spare parts
needed to repair rigs and for particular brands of tractors available from
original manufacturers would be purchased directly from manufacturers. All
other goods would be purchased by limited international bidding, which
would entail obtaining at least three bids from well established
suppliers from at least two different countries, represented with servicing
agents in Sudan. A procurement plan is given in Annex IV.
76.       For any orders exceeding $250,000 in value, which constitute
about 90 percent of the program, full documentation (including list of
bidders, advertisements, invitations to bid, draft tender documents, draft
contracts, bid evaluation and recommendation of contract awards, as
applicable in each case) would be sent to the association for review prior
to contract award.
77.       IDA would disburse against 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for imported goods, equipment and vehicles and 80 percent for imported
items purchased locally.  All disbursements for amounts exceeding $20,000
would be fully documented. Reimbursements for contracts for goods and
services valued at less than $20,000 would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure. Disbursement requests from all participants
would be submitted through the MOFE?. Most components would require only
one procurement package and therefore the disbursement schedule is not
comparable to general IDA disbursement profiles. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
78.       Program accounts and records would be maintained by ABS, SGB,
Rahad and NWC. These accounts would record the acquisition and ultimate
disposition of the goods financed by the Credit. MOFEP will maintain



- 22 -
centrally integrated program account by each component which would be
available to IDA on request. The program accounts including Statements of
Expenditures would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
then submitted to IDA not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year during the implementation period. MOFEP, supported by ABS
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, would report on the use and effects of the
credit proceeds. In addition, no later than six months after completion of
the proposed program, the Government would prepare and furnish to IDA a
complete report on the implementation of the project.
Environmental Impact
79.       The most potentially damaging environmental effect could come
from the mechanized farming of large tracts in semi-arid areas. Previous
farming of these areas has led to removal of virtually all perennial
foliage and exposure to erosion. However, the Government's program to
control mechanized farming practices has been partially successf .1 in
reducing the damages. Also, the use of farm machinery purchased with
credit proceeds would be restricted to areas already under cultivation in
zones where degradation is considered not to be a risk (para. 68).
Therefore no environmental damage should result from the mechanized farming
component.
80.       The provision of fertilizer and jute sacks should have either a
neutral or positive effect on the environment. The provision of water
sources could, if installed in unproductive semi-arid areas, lead to soil
exhaustion and removal of natural cover, and so provisions have been made
to assure that the NWC avoids installations in such areas (para. 71).
Benefits
81.       The benefits resulting from the p. igram are expected to be (a)
increased sorghum and wheat production from the application of fertilizers
in the irrigated areas, (b) increased sorghum production from the rainfed
areas through the provision of tractors and spare parts for farm machinery
and jute sacks, and (c) an increase in the number of functional wells and
hafirs in the Eastern Region through the provision of pumps, drills and
construction equipment.
82.       While an overall economic rate of return was not calculated due
to the nature of the program, an analysis of the major components indicates
the following:
(i) The fertilizer component yields approximately a 3.5:1
benefit to cost ratio for sorghum using import parity
prices.
(ii) The provision of jute grain sacks gives approximately a
3.5:1 benefit to cost ratio assuming only a one year use, a
5 percent saving in reduced grain losses, and sorghum import
parity prices.



- 23 -
(iii) Tractors give a financial rate of return of over 50 percent
assuming import parity prices for the first year, and export
parity price for subsequent years, and a yield of 250 kg.
per feddan.
No attempt has been made to estimate an economic return for the water
component, which would assist in the recovery of agriculture by reducing
the costs incurred through abandonment of villages when water supplies run
dry.
83.       Beneficiaries would be:  (i) approximately 70,000 tenant families
in the irrigated areas and 20,000 traditional small farmer families, and
small-scale private irrigators; (ii) approximately 600 commercial
mechanized farmers and hired laborers who would be employed by them at a
level of about 45,000 labor years; and indirectly consumers, both in the
rural and urban areas, who would benefit from a fall in food prices. Also,
the program should strengthen ABS by expanding its lending operations and
its liquidity during the lending period.
Risks
84.       Shortage of fuel for farm machinery and transportation of project
components to the producing areas poses a substantial risk. The appraisal
mission found no feasible way to reduce this risk through the addition of a
fuel component to the project since fuel distribution and use would be
diffic.ilt or impossible to control. However, the mission was encouraged by
the recent decision of several major donors to help meet Sudan's immediate
fuel requirements which greatly reduces this risk for the coming crop
year. The Government has in the past given priority to the agricultural
sector when fuel is available.
85.       There is also a risk in delayed project procurement.  However,
the GOS has already prepared tender documents for items to be financed
under DRP and procurement would proceed as soon as this program is
approved. Also, since two of the three implementing agencies are familiar
with IDA procurement procedures, this risk seems manageable.
86.       There is, of course, a risk. that the rains will again be
inadequate. This will not be a major factor in the irrigated areas (i.e.
for the fertilizer component) but it would affect the production from the
rainfed areas. However, the farm machinery and jute sacks would not be
wasted since they could be used in the following year.
87.       All of these risks seem reasonable in view of the substantial
benefits which would result from successful implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
88.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Sudan and the Association, and the Recomendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of



- 24 -
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
89.       Special features of the project are listed In Section III of
Annex III of this report.
90.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
91.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 3, 1985



- 25 -                                        AN  T
TABLE 23                                         PAt I
SUDmN                  -SOCIAL INDICATOIS DATA SHIT
SUIDN                               REA,hf GROUP  AEAG) La-
MIOST              CMI4OSSCEnt ESTIKAT) lb
REET        tllODLZ DIlla           MllONK Illll
inotk    1970,t      zsTrmAutk   AFRICA S. OF Sam       N. AFRICA A MI  aM
AMA  (T!lS0   SQ. M)
TOTAL                             2505.6       2505.6    2505.8
AGRICULTURAL                       667.0        671.0     614.5
ar nm carn (Us$)                      140.0        160.0     440.0           1112.9                   1149.6
(rnoCl  Ol OXL o  UIVAEINIzr)       40.0        118.0      70.0            529.0                    622.1
POMtM AND MLST1ESTIC
POPULATION,IJD-YEAX (THOUSANDS)   11165.0     13859.0   20167.0
URBAN POPULATION (S OP TOTAL)       10.3         16.4      22.5             29.7                     48.2
PDPOLATIOX Pnojiorns
POPULATIN IN TUR 2000 (HILL)                             33.9
STATIONer POPUlATION (HIL)                              112.2
POPULATIONH GKENfI                                        1.6
POPULATION ovum
PER SQ. 1s.                        4.5          5.5       7.8             55.8                     36.3
PER SQ. K. AGIL. LAND             16.7         20.5      28.6            111.5                    461.7
POPULATION ACE STRUCTME (I)
0-14 YRS                         43.7         63.7      44.1             45.6                     43.6
15-64 Y1                          53.Z        53.4       52.5             51.7                     33.1
65 AND ABOVE                       3_1          2.9       2.8              2.9                      3.3
POPUlATIN CRhWII RATE CZ)
ToTAL                              1.9          2.2       3.1              2.8                      2.6
URBAN                              6.9          6.8       5.8              5.2                      4.5
CRD BIMR  RATE (PER TWOS)           47.0        47.0       45.4             47.0                     40.4.
CR D  DWAH RATE (iPEn  1OS)         25.4         22.1      17.8             15.2                     11.5
GROSS REPRODUCTIOC RATE              3.3          3.3       3.2              3.2                      2.6
FAMILY PLANNDC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (CT11S)           ..
USD5 (S OF ARIED       )            ..           ..       5.0  .d           ..                     22.2
FOD  AMD XRrZ
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PElt CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       92.0        100.0      67.0             91.6                     97.3
PER CAPtTA suwrs or
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIR_Dr.S)       84.0         91.0     '99.0             9L.2                    110.1
PREIS (CRAIS PER DAT)             65.0        66.0       68.0             56.7                     70.1
OF USIC  ANDIJ Al18 PULSE       24.0         22.0      21.0 /           17.0                     17.8
CRUD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RAZE          40.1        32.4       23.0             18.7                     14.6
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEANS)       38.7        61.9       47.0             51.7                     57.5
DIFANT HOfRf. RATE (Pi  THOS)      168.0       150.4      119.1            10Z.7                    101.5
ACCESS TO SAF WATER C(poP)
TOTAL                               ..         19.0      66.0 f           35.6                     59.7
UJ                                  ..         61.0      49.0 T71         5i                       64.5
RURAL                               _.         13.0      45.0 rf          27.3                     38.4
ACCESS TO  XREML DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         16.0      22.0               ..
one                        ..          ..         .                 ..
RURAL
POPULION1 PEP PHYSICIN           33230.0      14070.0    8930.0          11946.3                   345.1
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           3010.0 /b   1720.0    1430.0            2246.9                  131.1
POP. PER H0SPITAL BED
roT                              S70.0 /:    920.0 ft 1050.0 A           986.9                    632.9
URBAU                            130.0 7Wa 1   190.0 7    370.0 K        36B.7                   5s5.5
RLRAL                           437007St 5130.0 if  1870.0 /            4012.1                   2513.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..        ..               ..                     26.2
AVERAGE SIZE or ROUSEILD
TOAL                                ..          5.1
URBAN                               ..          5.7        . 
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERASE NO. OF PnsOuu/xoas
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URUA                                ..          L.         .       
RURAL                               ..           ..        .                 ..
ACCESS TO ELEC. (Z Or  SUEINS)
TOAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..                     46.2
URAN                                ..         Z6.4 Li     ..               ..                     77.7
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..                     16.1



-  26 -                                           ANNEX I
T A C L C3                                        IPAGE 2
SUDAN                  - SOCIAL DIDICATORS DATA SlEET
SUDAN                               REFERENCE GROUPS (ERIEZTED AVERAGES) /a
mOST                (MOST RECENT STIMATE) /b
RECENT       MIDDLE INCOIE          M1DDL  INCOE
1960&    IL97tA   zFSIAtlEL    AFRICA S. OF SARUA    n. ARCA & MD EST
ADJUSTED ENROLIMENT RATIOS
PIDLMRY:  TOTAL                   25.0         38.0      52.0              91.0                     8S.3
KALE                    35.0        46.0       61.0             90.5                    102.5
EAlS                    14.0        29.0       43.0             73.6                     73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   3.0          7.0      18.0              17.4                     43.0
KALU                     5.0        10.0       20.0             23.7                     52.3
FEMALE                   1.0         4.0       15.0             14.8                     33.0
VOCATIONAL (C OF SECO )              3.4          1-4 /k    4.0 /k.l          5.3                     10.3
PUPIL-TzACHzU RATIO
PRIM                              41.0         47.0      33.0              38.6                     30.3
SECDNDAT                          20.0         17.0      23.0              24.3                     23.1
ADULT LTERACY RAMT (Z)              13.1         14.7      32.0              35.6                     43.5
PASSENGER CARS/TOUJSAND POP          1.4          2.0        --              20.7                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/ITBOUSAND POP       17.0 /a      80.3      70.2             100.8                    138.8
TV RECVERS/T1OUSAND POP              0.8 7n       3.2        5.5             18.5                     46.1
NEUSPAPER (-DAILY CENER1AL
INTEREST-) CRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            4.4          9.2        1.0 |c          17. Z                    31.2
CINEMtA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     0.9                    0.5 7F            0.3                      1.7
LAB O FCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TIOUS)         3701.0       4547.0    6311.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   9.6         10.2      11.0              33.8                     10.8
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             86.0         82.0      78.0              57.1                     42.4
INOUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.0          8.0      10.0              17.4                     27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             33.2         3Z.8      31.3              36.3                     26.2
mALE                              59.3         58.2      54.9              47.6                     46.4
FEKALE                             6.4          6.8       7.0              25.1                      5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCE RATIO            1.4          1.4       1.5               1.4                      1.8
IUM UDISIDUIMOU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE DNGE
RECEI19 BY
HIGHEST 5E OF HOUSEHOLDS          20.9 In O
NICSEST 20S OF HOUSEHDLDS         50. 17 j  o   49.2IP      _
LOWEST 20S OF BOUSEWOLDS           5.0 /u.o    5. I7j
LOWEST 4CZ OF HOUSEHOLDS          13.9 /n.o   14.5
PDZw  TAI  GRO
ESTIED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOD E
IE7EL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                    137.0 jq         525.3                    274.8
RURAL                               ..                   80. 0            249.0                    177.2
ESTIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPrTA)
URBAN                                     ..             115 0 /q         477.4                    402.6
RIJAL                                *           *      100.0             186.0                    284.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW AISOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (R)
URANM
RURAL                                .     .          ..  5
NOr AVAIIBAE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/A  The group aeraes for each indicator are populatiom-weighted aritbetic sens. Coverage of councries among the
iodicators depends n availabiliry of date and Is not uniform.
lb  Unlear otherwise noted. Data for 1960  refer to ny yer betwee  1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970( betveen 1969 and
1971; and data for MHoet Recent Eatiate- between 1980 and 1982.
Pc  1979; /d Age. 15-50 year. North only; /e 1977; /f 1976; /.L 1975; /h 1962; / Coverment hospital eatablisheents;
Li 1966; fit Beginnang 1970. the duration of general econdary education va reduced from 8 to 6 years; /I Includa
program oT5 training centers operated by Department of Labor and 17 abort-tern ceanter operated by Ministry of
Youth and Sport; /. 1963; /n 1964; 1o O.durman urban; p 1967-68; Iq 1978.
JME. 1984



-27  -AN~NEX I
Page 3
14-.,maes   b   es-d                e...e.~as1                   is  -  .S   selestla  -  e1eis 1I.        Do1.1  .8. -Am'.ek.  5159 Sde  _-AA - IaCsleS
s.ss Leq.s...  eb  veers-  neeep d-s h   se   585 p..p."IsIe. s101.   mooe.l                isp MAN5 4551.0.5         --I          --t   A aft .y   5-s   OL-4...    we
~~9* lIst.... .1.58.1  ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~       9"-m-=                 .              . d-P..158 d-1   .d9 5.4.  .5- -eotvS
-  sei.e.4aese _.Oq  .n.M- .4te   -.91-.    .ve-  tIS`Sd                                               -.  -.  9.41est .A    *1  LLL-etel  iseel.) -
M9.1 - -        1               ~W d-- CII45..                                         eeIs1e  We Le..  -ses  - 8L..l             A *14- by    t- .1  8c
-a,.,,vl-1e8..5  .ese..lec  .4tws1 I-svlpae   d  ..5-..e.5.4 Pe.t.. 4de...W bpt5-.61 Or s g."
I,.se~*...r.*   ehs  el ne... 494...-  ..81 1.5..  980          eee9 Mt  185..._                                     p t1.L       .
-e .      s..       =CI.s  -ev.   51.pIe                                   elsI   Cpkll.    t.et..l.4..484-1..
CS5.41M Miy  .  ca.le, -.   8t. -1491  1.   15  5C-l.13                                    .e859. p.1CeCe. -          ttslS-- 85 eet -h ICe P8"Lt    .8
5940. left. -A 1112 des.                                                                 be.  (.05 -  ~.sislka   heesh4leal  P...54     pft48dp.Lts ..eOdSOL
-     hc -   I-.l.4. 1-vd M1ls.. hn.et  1.51.4 S-418  ted
tee.  011T8   Spa ctel - 01.  85.1r.eks.  ..e.                                             ailed       18  M-     -Lee581t .5.55 S.4     * epeti-(.  Ct L 
pm31                    L.d891     -t-leelal1.1                                                                                        8.le   -s.dZe5u.
555.UI5hII.~4.      S. .A2.1.    .5. t55  I 85-.- -58.Lad 3942t-..1=Q                                             IO",  " "
1974. -4 rea d-t-                                                                       Tae.     . We        WA-        d.49.541
.00Cte  4Whle           e54-ta A5.  n..se-F              tt.5  .1.at   411-  C..5.  8 h.eel-8 - We                                   -M         ftk t.t     I A
-M           L5-   1910. I1.  4  94 4-5.                                                b  S-,-.dU le- "el.ts8    sp-a..
eSAS                          .eee&S.~ reete.1  -A f          -&S                                             of.594-I            _VOSA-    w
S,8...  NeS- lL`- pem.ee  15   et.tlt  9           ..A- a thee                        ......sI  PC..
L-wte  --eb p.5        .  ee5l5t. .1 hd    -..      .b. Ie1s. 15    tss   4til5310   ..le.
aseade. 0.15.. I        5 fl851te4t   -   lea Ises ad- 1- -5.417g                                                          -SAL-,
PI-L". .55..e.S..               e,I .0- ..Le-     .5 eM- CIa
bfltn  ..e.11e .4C     s I.". 0M1-5,d5 ess-sesf . nl1                            ea.  ..t    st t.A.     e1t              1 - Ir.  -el   t  ad 5.0
veeee  see s--eC-s d s-ps 1C   se         1- .1   .sp.is  .  141eIe.s  1 .4 ,1 -S                        lbs -.C A- ss IA          df- eee..   4~1s
vs.t  SI . r.7%83   MC sC.         I5       . AMte  -ees .  -A1                       9085 "5A"1-5OCi1415.  lCbe    s.                     C    I__.,
.91. -5lsdshv1.ls  4stl.C85 L.                               .4 Cbs                   allis  -lES . ads1- *al    .C.C1            CC      CSA ICe,
Melb        P-) .-"Ce lb. 5hl         .11 AM     .              -th                     *      n.pls        bl-      s     lbs.eO.-med ea O%esA-.       de
bssLom.5       - r.Jeed      Cestl-LI%L lb  M.451.I lbs  -9es                        lsttcisl-  ell 91.4                   1  -OF-d S-4 es,Cs
259.  t bs  ..  . de1. t.5k lfIlS  cc..-  ...ln.   ...l                                  P       4M-selE   -   55tes  pCC -M5    5Cm   eL-A       leehase
teel.1I..Cc.  -Is"bst.etp St           1.l  -ee *-  ceg. e-we-.I. -CIT..e'CI    et.1S -e  tas   1584   4. 0I
.he seL~.A. l  I.M. -Ilte nes..                                                    8t.- eelas.e  talIr..ev    l i,.-ts. e LaCS  Alsf,  C 18ee8
...sse   894.1 dSs.                                                        e.tl..t.s"h-`-ve-l.-  .rsr   .  eaSe-t..   ei....8dS
S,:.L= rWe 15.11. f1.0it          - Childserb 41I1.4-h  SC S 1.515.(                                                                                5 .-
.51.1  roS:  n.. 1 9. .1148  s..                                             sile tett 151. thsve.et               I  Usse  41  (ths. els .   ell)-
W- t- P.1 w. tltwflS  .4-(sed-  ie1..5llcl led                                         S =     -ami           -gCC s 01   P-=cS.  It.0   -MI-  eCe.dme..
,- csC1 -8.    Ufte 99IS. NOse .   Ldd1  Isrtal5C0        t'e5                           n1te 5.                   .. I-)  -,AL yt aef ee-flt #-dA,
Fe,_isLl. C-8S1A      . 4192de. !                                                     n       atWE Is.. i.  ISh  peel-- -.1s PM           .-    -      C
'.-A -    1-C la     so  1tt-d) -IsleLLOe 48515                                                                                            de5stCme .14..518101Aact.
Dea.A.el, i.lb  .! (5-1.5 - ee-.L .t   "S"Ah 51b s 1_.5 - eed-                             M.e CCl45.e89519eb1PiSSA 5r Mt558 eSledl.
C-sh     !.                               S-  ft- 18.54TV9L                           5t-g                                TV55-.  9          . -  sal
CS_N-gi   m.-A M    -b- .1 t..Mbrlbs                        ALLe e-, Md.                 an. 8. Ie.; 5-5 8. 9 5                          MASS hed,  .5.0 n.
jd-  p.-S4tL   15A-At  1911   if494  isIs        Wlele. .beUh-S sebel
l.18M15 Is.~sete....elal .4e.511e                  tt.es .c.ILLte .... due) 1-4 ha it
WC81   itl     - 859  .5... a--it sd  -a.)    Fe 94  eS ..t-ltd                  a*-Ils e5llC.                                             t        L
Ci eblI-stl1494C    58 p951t18.4   Seha 58
,1.451.941.d.5  C..ees..81e  .ecIl.-8.ls .  haS.
8.4. . 554  rebvt. sp   b-t..CW.   i89)- lj  slet  e.-                                            bais....1-a 5.9.  V-  ela . IWO    PUS1 14- 
e.e41 98sf11   58        UP 1181 5-4 ...Ils-Psdels   5.1.-a .                                          8-   Isv_ . lsv8dg -1 U.55. s. Read.4
.W dt             F6   -~d..                         te--S-                            FA . [.- 1.1  e1 &.Le2V-   - es    t .   5.s.td... ICIIISs-
s,er   bei- 9..4.  6.1.   -poeeeelten..s-            at AMA  -t.                  meteS,g Z__ s            ef -    .1 l. lA-t .    . Lea Ia 
As...Ib.  e.__d 1.e     s1..__  fa e.ed.le ~2ba     .CM s f    _1                  In,99..14   d. ft .  -                      - 35% IeS  .89  .
54  -4 -  d"'eelel.. si pet.1511         .11-ifStv  II rcs-.H - -
41 i.sb"U  ise: 1941-ct. 897 te  2451 451.
5.1011                .  4: 1 sespL; .t    is  4.18.w - .h.e. Sbe-                  p.841.rl             s8   pee  6w             m.    P-..5-40 ee
14r.1 e .11 AL          s. _usei., by "M8 P-eeI  5.11.A        1                         80
At--- peelMls. .145     5.n.L   ~Ae ps 4s8s. 20 peeee   oe. -                                                         0 .4 A1                    e,15.
el.4el OSeeInA..e whb 'ha a-   71 w b.  16.1. Pee.Is ?m-  t
.1 WUA554      .     0114 v-ed          -id.lIBI-VW l9'84 889  -s.9.555                          E de... P-S..d Atl...,lel1~!
-1dSMOftetl &TD       See d                                                           M
d-&-i   45 t   4P..dIee  I MS 1.1.. 598k. 8416S 970 .4  l          3  .5.               -Ae...e.   l, .1- sh esy   445-  5.41 15l"   --95.45885.  W
Ie.   41t1pIsefe  ete.s)1           lowe.  ".l.   tool.4  seds                      W-- eee.- V                      oe,WLI   ~-   =! 
SII 94* le, 545558.1 8894 bIflist l944, 590.4  lUl isIs.                                          -  .9U.Ift 
t.t   Shem1.1. 1-1tlsVdte   sette   4- 5.lsl  Let-a .4 rS
-Ple1,33,  .e..          lhet d   ..1.9  -els te  -.eebtl..                                                          X-O81.PS. -.4-1l01
.815   a     pbP...f.st- .5    ML .lp .. 5.5    .4-9  11     .ev
,t-5   h    ""a . is    d.ee  .5 A0dp-A .515*   -c            .1th   15
al . .5I  i.-A-545               -.0ls 59 l4 495ce514  9581 .5
-M s        .-LOS 447 sM5t19ft-1 l.4Iy pees   d.    M   e-     " A
lb  aislea   4.ss1..th eteIhm_        eWa   51ha_ sl
A -AALL,d  by  -14.                   OMe1s     88 .0.  Pa, WLA-e  Me
..1mmi5 IalUtsIn-



- 28.-
ANNEX I
Fage 4
SUDAN - COUNTMY DATA
ECONONIC INDICATORS
ANNUAL AVERAGE RA7Z OF GROWTH
GROSS DOHESTIC PRODUCT IN 1983/84                           (Z, Conotant Prices)
USS kin.    S          1974/75-1978/79    1978/79-1983/84
GDP at Market Prices          6288.0   100.0               3.6                 1.7
Gross Doaestic Investmnt       870.7    13.8               0.6                -0.4
Gross National Saving          224.3      3.6             13.1               -10.0
Current Account Balance       -646.0    10.3               0.7                 4.1
Exports of Goods, IFS          877.0    13.9               0.7                 4.1
Imports of Goods, NFS         1668.0    26.5               0.2                 4.0
OUTPUT 1/, L^BOR FORCE 2| AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983/84
Value Added        Labor Force           V.A. Per Worker
USS Kin.   Z        Hln.       S         USS   Z (of average)
Agriculture     1684.4   29.7       4.92      78.0        342        23.1
Industry         931.7   16.5        0.63     10.0       1479       164.7
Services        3051.4   53.8        0.76     12.0       4015      447.1
Total      5667.5   100.0      6.31    100.0         898      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINACE
Central Government - 1983/84
(LS. Kin.)       Z Of GDP zl
Current Receipts                1469              14.7
Current Expenditure             1300              13.0
Current Surplus                   169              1.7
Capital Expenditures             483               4.8
Unallocated Expenditures 3/       366              3.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                   79/80   80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                              1047.5  1445.2   1899.9   2605.0  3151.8
Bank Credit to Central Government (net)   719.0   914.5    848.7       677.2   775.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Parastatals                             814.3  1118.6   1560.9   2229.6  2585.7
(Percentages)
Ainnfulal percentage changes in:
Consumr Price Index 4/                      25.9    24.3     26.8      30.6     28.1
Bank Credlt to Central Government            9.0    27.2     -7.2      20.2     14.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector
and Parastatals                          24.7    37.4     39.5      42.8     16.0
1/ Factor Costs.
2L labor force estimates are based on EPD's social Indicators Data Sheet.
In/ Icludes some capital expenditures by other public entities.
4/ Calendar Year.
Nay 28, 1985



- 29 -
ANNIMX I
Page 5
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF P&TMENTS ESTIM'ETS
1980/61   1961/82 198Z/83   1983/84        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1981/82-1983/84)
(ilow. US$)
US$ KID.         Z
Exports Goods & NFS              748       627       753        877
Imports Goods & NFS             1828      2034      1786       1668      Cotton                   194.0         33.5
Resource Gap                   -1080     -1407     -1033       -791      Sorghu                    59.4         10.3
Interest, lLT Debt             -105       -190      -191       -215      Croundnuts                26.7          4.6
Other Factor Payments (net)       -1        -5       -20       -20       Cm Arabic                 51.2          8.8
Private Transfers                305       350       415        350      Seam                      53.0          9.2
Current Balance                 -881     -1252      -829       -646      Other                    194.7         33.6
Public Grants                    122       174       462        336            Total              579.0        100.0
Direct Inveitment                 35        40        60         70
Public HILT Loans, disb.         49g       685       219        194      EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMER 31, 1983
Public HLT Losae, asort.          86        97        58         16
Total Public Net                 413       S88       161        178                                          US$ 31n.
Net Credit, DM                   290        SO       L22        -
Capital Flows (Icl. errors                                               Public Debt, DOD, lLT                5780.6 j/
and omlsslons)              -199       -118      -196       203
Change In Net Reserves                                                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO TOR 19S3/84
(- ladicates Increase)       220        518       220      -141 3/                                             Z
Public Debt, Incl. guaranteed          26.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                         Non-Gruranteed Private Debt
Exchange Rate J/
Official Rate:    Lsd 1.00 - US$ 0.40
USS 1.00 - Lad 2.50
Commercial Dank   Lad 1.00 - US$ 0.30
Floating Rate: US$ 1.00 - Lad 3.30
IBRD/IDA LZNDINC. (Dec. 31, 1983) (Million US$)
IBRD     IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed         '..      393.9
UndLabursed                         2.3    244.1
Outstanding Lncl. Undisburned      4W4     638.0
Not available.
1/  Total DOD (Including MF, outstanding arrears, and military debt) ie, honever.
estimated to US$8.1 biflion as of December 31, 1983.
2/  Exchange rate refers to May. 1985. For exchange rate
history prior to that, refer to table 6.6 of the Statistical Annex.
3/  In 1983/84 the net forelgn reserves situation ume extremely tight;
the reported increase may have resulted from computing inaccuracies
In the sbort-tern capital flows.                                                             EA2NE
May 28, 1985



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page=1
A. STATEMENT OF BANR LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of March 31, 1985
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan/                                                                        lTndis-
Credit No.     Year   Borrower  Purpose                Bank          IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and seventeen Credits fully disbursed    139.0           270.1
Credit 782     1978   Sudan      Livestock Marketing                  25.0   10.1
Credit 804     1978   Sudan      Mechanized Farming III               16.0    5.3
Credit 834     1978   Sudan      Agricultural Research                15.0    5.5
Credit 882     1979   Sudan      Highway II                           41.0    0.1
Credit 904     1979   Sudan      So. Region Agriculttre               15.0    5.7
Credit 1006    1980   Sudan      Third Power                          65.0   23.1
Credit 1022    1980   Sudan      New Halfa Rehabilitation             40.0   26.5
Credit 1118 11 1981   Sudan      Blue Nile Pump Rehab.                32.0   23.4
Credit 1119 71 1981   Sudan      White Wvile Pump Rehab.              35.0   24.7
Credit 1153 7T 1981   Sudan      Second Teeb. Assistance               6.0    3.3
Credit 1181 71 1981   Sudan      Western Savannah                     13.0    1.4
Credit 1201 /1 1982   Sudan      Agricultural Services                18.0   12.9
Credit 1233 11 1982   Sudan      Second Port                          25.0    3.9
Credit 1388 71 1983   Sudan      Gezira Rehabilitation                80.0   80.0
Credit 1389 71- 1983   Sudan     Agric. Rehab. Program II             50.0    0.7
Credit FOI1*7T 1984   Sudan      Third Education Project              10.0    9.0
Credit 1451 T7  1984   Sudan     Third Education Project               5.4    4.2
Credit 1450 7T 1984   Sudan      Third Highway Project                16.0   15.4
Credit 1506 717 1984   Sudan   **Sugar Rehab. Project                 60.0   60.0
Credit 1513 71 1984   Sudan      Petroleum T.A. Project               12.0   11.5
Credit 1525 71 1984   Sudan   **Stock Route Project                    5.5    5.5
Total                                        139.0        855.0  332.2
of which repaid                             94.8           5.5
Total now outstanding                         44.2        849.5
Amount sold                    5.8                  8.3
of which repaid              5.8              -   8.3     -
Total held by Bank & IDA                      44.2        849.5
Totai undisbursed                              Nil        332.2  332.2
/1  IDA 6 Credits, US dollar equivalent of SDRs at time of negotiations.
(Note: SDR amounts of these 13 credits are: SDR 25.1 million, SDR 27.5
million, SDR 4.9 million, SDR 11.2 million, SDR 15.7 million, SDR 21.5
million, SDR 74.2 million, SDR 46.1 million, SUR 9.6 million, SDR 5.2
million, SDR 15.5 million, SDR 56.4 million and SDR 11.6 million,
respectively.)
** Not yet effective.
*11 Special Fund Credit



_ 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                              (Amount in US$ million)
Year          Obligor                                 Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and       Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972           Textiles                               1.9    0.3      2.2
1976           Cotton Textile Mills                     8.7    1.3    10.0
1978           Seleit Food Production Ltd.             11.1    1.1    12.2
1978           Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.          6.7    1.4      8.1
1980           Sudan Cement Company                      -     0.2      0.2
1982           White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.             -     0.3      0.3
Total gross commitments                 28.4    4.6    33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                  6.9    0.6      7.5
Total commitments now held by IFC      21.5    4.0    25.5
Total undisbursed by IFC                 1.9    0.2     2.1



_ 32 -
ANME= III
Page 1
SUDAN
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I      -  Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare project:  3 months
(b)   Preparation by:  IDA/Government
(c)   Appraisal Mission:  March 26 - April 17, 1985
(d)   Planned date of Credit
Effectiveness:            July 15, 1985
Section II     -  Special IDA Implementation Actions
A PPF for US$1 million has been approved.
Section III    -  Special Conditions:
(a)   Government would submit for IDA review by December
31, 1985 a draft report and an action program for
the implementation of report's recommendation of
the Rainfed Study representing the work of the four
Task Forces established for this purpose (para.
56);
(b)   ABS would provide four-year loans for tractor
distribution and one-year seasonal cropping and
harvest loan with annual charges equivalent to not
less than 14 percent of the outstanding loan
balance (para. 68);
(c)   The GOS would ensure that tractors provided to
farmers under the Credit would only be used to
cultivate land which does not conflict with
forestry or grazing enterprises, and would be
restricted to areas already under cultivation in
zones where degradation is considered not to be a
risk (para. 68);
(d)   On-lending to ABS would be with charges equivalent
to 9.6 percent interest and repayment of over 10
years including 3 years grace (para. 69);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e)   Local currency proceeds from the sale of fertilizer
to tenants at Gezira and Rahad vould be collected
by the corporations and paid into a special account
(para. 70);
(f)   NWC would submit to the Association by July 31,
1985, a drilling program in the project area
(para. 71); and
(g)   NWC would provide a detailed program by July 31,
1985, including arrangements for reasonable cost
recovery for reliable operation and maintenance of
wells and hafirs (para. 71).



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
SUDAN
DROUGHT RECOVERY .PROGRAM
Procurement Plan
(US$ million)
Procurement Method                      Total
Project Element            ICB         LIB        Otherl/        Cost
1.  Tractors                                 4.6          -             4.6
(4.0)                      (4.0)
2. Tractors (spares)              -          0.6          0.6           1.2
(0.5)       (0.5)          (1.0)
3.  Jute Sacks                    3.4        -            -             3.4
(3.0)                                 (3.0)
4. Fertilizers                   11.6        -            -            11.6
(8.5)                                 (8.5)
5. Rehabilitation of rigs         -          -            1.3           1.3
(1.1)         (1.1)
6.  Ancillary Equipment           -          2.8          -             2.8
Vehicles and Materials
for Water Supply                        (2.4)                      (2.4)
Total                    15.0        8.0          1.9          24.9
(11.5)      (6.9)       (1.6)         (20.0)
Figures without parenthesis show total cost.
Figures in parenthesis show costs financed by IDA.
1/ Represent purchases to be made from original equipment manufacturers
for specific brand of equipment.



- 35 -
ANNEX V
DUGT REOUWE PGAM4
Procaremerit Scbedule
Sdeflg
Water
S. NO.           Activity                    Tractors     Jute Sacs          FertLzer 
1.     Prepara  of s       f            April-2nd wek  April-2nd week  Aprl-4th wk   April-4th weec
and teoier documet axd
ShdssiOn to m1
2.     MA, revie and aproval            April-4th week  April 20-30    l4y-2nd meek   fty-2nd wce
3.     issie of tendler nvitation      1Ma-1st week    lI  1             My-2rx  ek      My-2nd wc
4.     Tender c:lgE                     Jue-Ist week   June 5            June-2nd meek   Jie-2nd week
5.     Tax1er opnng evaluation         Jam-3rd week   June 6-10          June- 3rd week   June-4th week
an !  recndaticas to Mk
6.     M& revim aind aroal              July-lst.ueek   Jue 10-25        July-lst week   Jul3-2nd week
7.     Award an! signing of ctaxt       July-3-t week   June 25-Jily 2  Juiy-2nd we      July-3rd week
8.     Opeing of latter -of cdit        July-2nd %;eek   July 2-15       Julr-2od meek   July-4th week
9.     Iss  of qualified agreemnt       July-4th week   Juy 16-25        Aug.-Ist week   Aug.-2nd wee
to reimburse by IDA
10.        pment anad delvery            Aug.-4th wee    July 26-ig. 31 Aug.-3rd wek   Sept.-2nd week
to Sept.-1st 'wek



- 36 -
ARM VI
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
Minsty of Fiance and Eonmxde Planng
(Planning         -                          )
P.O. Box.2092. KHARTOUM              h,% _                                  .j.r
Cable. (EMAR)                                         l(js1b) L1^;;
nxx:324                                                        :    r
Kartoum: 16th-.  ... 1                           25th-. R!4" 11uC0 I. 
Ref  ......   ............                                     ____,,
InteTnatio.w  Devedolep t
X818 t. Street N. V.,
Vashington D. C- 2133,
U. S. A.
Attached herevithl pease fizd St&tommt ef  X _6  fer %ga
Fed Aprculture prepared by <MiStzy et Ag'lcultmM.
Sincerely ye-u
IPerAfde Seeetary of 3 danmag,
Mnisitry of Fiziane and &amiulc Pla=1Mn.



- 37 _
ANNEX VI
Page 2
Statement of Strategy for Rainfed Agriculture
Prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture
1.        The Government of Sudan is committed to the development of
Rainfed Agriculture through both the large-scale mechanized sub-sector and
the traditional rainfed sub-sector. The objectives are to increase
production, enhance food security and reduce environmental degradation.
The means to achieving these objectives will be through problem-solving
research, extension of appropriate technology packages, appropriate pricing
and taxation policies, provision of credit and support services, more
focused institutions, clarified institutional responsibilities and
investment in infrastructure. Production will be througn the private
sector with a strong emphasis on bringing the traditional farmer into the
development process.
2.        The programs and actions to achieve these objectives will be
implemented within the following framework.
3.        Increased productivity, which in the past has come largely from
horizontal expansion will now come increasingly from vertical expansion,
through introduction and supply of improved seeds, suitable to
enviro3mental conditions of different areas and through supply of adequate
inputs and essential agricultural services. Certain new areas will be
opened up to meet the requirements for reallocation of farmers from
marginal lands to new areas with high production potentials and where
environmental degradation can be prevented.
4.        Efforts to increase productivity will be closely associated witn
efforts to improve crop handling and marketing channels, increase storage
facilities and build up an expanded system of infrastructure.
5.        Efforts to reduce environmental degradation and to conserve and
maintain natural resources will receive high priority: it is now well
acknowledged by the government that deterioration of natural resources,
soil degradation and desertification problems arz not attributed to drought
incidents but mainly to general land misuse. Agricultural development must
be consistent and in line with the actual capabilities of the land. In
thia respect, the following efforts deserve attention.
(a) FAO/GOS are currently engaged in resource inventory of the entire
savanna belt; the product will be an up-to-date resource base
maps involving a detailed land capability classification maps
which will be used in the formulation of a national land use plan
for future agricultural development.
(b) The government has formulated a comprehe-sive plan for combating
drought effects and desert'Lfication. This is an inter-
disciplinary program involving agriculture, soil, water, range
management, animal production, forestry, hydrology, wildlife,
ecology, sociology, and land classification. In the program, it
is acknowledged that restoration of degraded ecosystems is not



- 38 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3
always an easy task. Genuine public support and active
involvement of the target groups and resource users are essential
components of any successful programs.
(c) A Supreme Council for natural resources has been created and
entrusted the role of overall policy formulation for natural
resources that will ensure their appropriate utilization,
conservation and maintenance; the council will have the power and
authority to enforce the measures taken to achieve its policy
objectives.
(d) Future efforts to safeguard against environmental degradation
will include introduction of appropriate farm machinery and
implements and of appropriate rotation system.
6.        Agricultural credit provided through the Agricultural Bank of
Sudan and other financial institutions will be a powerful instrument to
direct and assure the implementation of the recommended policies for the
rainfed sector. In particular, agricultural credit will be used to
transform and modernize the traditional sector and to bring the small
farmer into the development process and to contain the undemarcated
mechanized rainfed areas and prevent crop production in the marginal areas.
7.        For the formulation and implement- ion of a consistent and
integrated national policy for the natural resources, it is hoped that the
programs and plans of the National Water Corporation for rural water supply
will be coordinated with the Ministry of Agriculture in order to discourage
settlements and agricultural activities in marginal areas with potentials
for environmental degradation.
S.        To monitor the performance of the agricultural sector during
periods of weather uncertainty, and to ensure a stable and regular flow of
food supply to the country, the Ministry of Agriculture has approached FAO
to introduce an early warning system that would increase the capabilities
of the Ministry to formulate appropriae policies to counter the effects of
fluctuations and/or failures in crop productions.
9.        In order to redirect the incentives and support for a new
initiative on rainfed agriculture, the Government has recently established
four task forces supported by IDA financing:
(i) a Pricing, Marketing and Incentives Task Force;
(ii) a Technology Task Force;
(iii) a Land Tenure Task Force; and
(iv) an Organization, Institutions, Finance and Credit Task Force.
These Task Forces will all be commencing work before the end of April 1985
and will prepare reports for presentation to the Government during the
second half of 1985. Particular issues for attention will be: mechanized
farming leasehold fees, improved technologies for mechanized farming, the
level of charges for credit, the appropriate balance of investments between
higher and lower rainfall areas, the clarification of central versus



- 39 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4
regional responsibilities for land subject to degradation, and the
appropriate strategies for increasing the incomes of lower income
traditional farmers.
10.       The Government will discuss the findings of these Task Forces
with IDA within three months of the completion of the reports and will then
outline a series of steps for the implementation of each of the accepted
recommendations. The Task Forces vou;d not only make specific
recommendations but would indicate a rime-bound sequence of administrative
and political steps to reach the recommended positions.



IBRD 18959
...........                                                                                                                                        111111
<< ................................  ....... . fBEK:t   '
i.i..i. ijj.j               *:j.jjjj-.....  .......... ..jj.--.blitf    f 1  ]
I,.    . . .     . . . . . ...... 1!a    x-_  ,
O 'i~~~----          .. i.   1, -..1-/.
It
> = ...   - t ......... .  z  9  !    t  1B  .   l  .    >  >    X   r  J   /  ~<  A tt  \    i
1U  o CCg                            ...........R{ a
~~~! .   g   gligg . . . . .   ,,igi iiiiiuErL .   //. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .    1. . . .E   St3   
U - e   ...................... .0S
... .............................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s     Xiij}E}XsjI]]]
............ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    .,    '  \.



