Page  1
Supplemental Letter No. 3 
 
TOPLOFIKACIA SOFIA 
 
June 18, 2003 
 
International Bank for 
 Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
United States of America 
 
Dear Sirs and Mesdames: 
 
Re:   
Loan No.  4704 BUL 
 
(District Heating Project) 
 
Representations  
 
In connection with the Loan Agreement of even date between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Toplofikacia Sofia for the above-captioned 
Project, Toplofikacia Sofia hereby undertakes and warrants to the Bank that: 
 
1. 
The financial statements, letter ref. No.2600511 dated May 13, 2003 of the Ministry of 
Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria, copies of which have been furnished to the Bank, correctly 
set forth the financial and operating condition of Toplofikacia Sofia as of that date, and since that 
date there have been no material adverse changes in the financial and operating conditions of 
Toplofikacia Sofia. 
 
2. 
Toplofikacia Sofia is not engaged in litigation as plaintiff or defendant, the outcome of 
which might materially and adversely affect its financial condition. 
 
3. 
Toplofikacia Sofia has no outstanding agreements or liabilities, contingent or otherwise 
(including taxes), that might materially and adversely affect its financial condition. 
 
4. 
No debt of Toplofikacia Sofia is secured by any mortgage, pledge, charge, priority, or 
other lien, and no contract or arrangement exists for the creation of any such mortgage, pledge, 
charge, priority, or other lien except for special arrangement in local currency with the Ministry 
of Finance in connection with loans guaranteed under the Project. 
 
5. 
There are no existing defaults in the payment of principal of, or interest or other charges 
on, any of the debts of Toplofikacia Sofia. 
 
6. 
Toplofikacia Sofia is not in violation of, and the execution and delivery of the Loan 
Agreement and the compliance with all its terms thereof do not and will not result in any 
violation of, any provisions of any existing agreement, concession, license, or permit, or of any 
statute, law, decree, regulation, or any other legal rule of a similar nature presently in effect and 
applicable to Toplofikacia Sofia. 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
7. 
Toplofikacia Sofia is a duly existing company under the laws of Republic of Bulgaria, 
with full authority to carry out its present business, to carry out the Project, and to execute and 
deliver the Loan Agreement, and has furnished to the Bank a true copy of the Decision No. 1 on 
the establishment of Toplofikacia Sofia, adopted by the Republic of Bulgaria Government on 
March 1, 1993 and a copy of the City Court of Sofia Decision registering the Toplofikacia Sofia 
under Bulgarian law under company file No. 1084/1993 under the Sofia City Court Inventory List 
on March 1, 1993, and of all other legislation presently in force and effect and governing or 
applicable to the operations of Toplofikacia Sofia, as well as of its statutes and by-laws presently 
in effect and governing Toplofikacia Sofia. 
 
It is our understanding that, in making the Loan and entering into the Loan Agreement, 
the Bank may rely on the representations contained herein. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
TOPLOFIKACIA SOFIA 
 
By:  /s/  Valentin Dimitrov 
 
Authorized Representative
 
