Page  1
Supplemental Letter No. 3 
 
TOPLOFIKACIA PERNIK 
 
June 18, 2003 
 
International Bank for 
 Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
United States of America 
 
Dear Sirs and Mesdames: 
 
Re:   
Loan No.  4703 BUL 
 
(District Heating Project) 
 
Representations  
 
In connection with the Loan Agreement of even date between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Toplofikacia Pernik for the above-captioned 
Project, Toplofikacia Pernik hereby undertakes and warrants to the Bank that: 
 
1. 
The financial statements, letter re. No. 04-07-117
 
dated May 12, 2003 of the Ministry of 
Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria, copies of which have been furnished to the Bank, correctly 
set forth the financial and operating condition of Toplofikacia Pernik as of that date, and since 
that date there have been no material adverse changes in the financial and operating conditions of 
Toplofikacia Pernik. 
 
2. 
Toplofikacia Pernik is not engaged in litigation as plaintiff or defendant, the outcome of 
which might materially and adversely affect its financial condition. 
 
3. 
Toplofikacia Pernik has no outstanding agreements or liabilities, contingent or otherwise 
(including taxes), that might materially and adversely affect its financial condition. 
 
4. 
No debt of Toplofikacia Pernik is secured by any mortgage, pledge, charge, priority, or 
other lien, and no contract or arrangement exists for the creation of any such mortgage, pledge, 
charge, priority, or other lien. 
 
5. 
There are no existing defaults in the payment of principal of, or interest or other charges 
on, any of the debts of Toplofikacia Pernik. 
 
6. 
Toplofikacia Pernik is not in violation of, and the execution and delivery of the Loan 
Agreement and the compliance with all its terms thereof do not and will not result in any 
violation of, any provisions of any existing agreement, concession, license, or permit, or of any 
statute, law, decree, regulation, or any other legal rule of a similar nature presently in effect and 
applicable to Toplofikacia Pernik. 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
7. 
Toplofikacia Pernik is a duly existing company under the laws of Republic of Bulgaria, 
with full authority to carry out its present business, to carry out the Project, and to execute and 
deliver the Loan Agreement, and has furnished to the Bank a true copy of the Decision No. 45 of 
the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on the establishment of Toplofikacia Pernik, 
adopted by the Republic of Bulgaria Government on November 7, 1991, and a copy of the 
Decision of the District Court of Pernik registering the Toplofikacia Pernik under Bulgarian law 
under Pernik District Court Case No. 155/1996 on February 24, 1996, and of all other legislation 
presently in force and effect and governing or applicable to the operations of Toplofikacia Pernik, 
as well as of its statutes and by-laws presently in effect and governing Toplofikacia Pernik. 
 
It is our understanding that, in making the Loan and entering into the Loan Agreement, 
the Bank may rely on the representations contained herein. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
TOPLOFIKACIA PERNIK 
 
By ________________________ 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  3
-
3
-
