Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4703 BUL 
 
Guarantee Agreement 
 
(District Heating Project - Pernik) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 18, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4703 BUL 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and TOPLOFIKACIA PERNIK (the Borrower), 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in   
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and 
(B) 
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount of seven 
million Dollars ($7,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term “Energy Strategy” 
means the Guarantor’s strategy for the energy sector, approved by the Council of 
Ministers’ Decision No. 279 of May 11, 2002, and adopted by Parliament on  
July 17, 2002. 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Guarantee 
Section 2.01. 
The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of  
Part B of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other 
charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and within 
its powers, the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as 
set forth in the Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Other Covenants 
Section 3.01. 
As long as the Borrower’s FRP is being implemented, the 
Guarantor specifically undertakes, within its powers, whenever there is reasonable cause 
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the 
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be 
provided with such assistance as is needed to meet such expenditures.  
 
Section 3.02. 
The Guarantor shall, through its Ministry of Energy and Energy 
Resources,  take all measures necessary on its part for the implementation of the district 
heating component of the Energy Strategy consistent with the satisfactory 
 
implementation of the Project. 
Section 
3.03.  The Guarantor shall, within its powers under applicable 
Bulgarian law, agree to progressively increase the ceilings of the household heating 
prices to achieve the tariffs approved by the Guarantor’s Energy Regulator for the 
Borrower.  
Section 3.04. 
The Guarantor shall, through its Ministry of Finance and 
Ministry of Energy and Energy Resources, supervise the implementation of the FRP by 
the Borrowers and ensure that all necessary measures to comply with said plans are taken 
in a timely manner. 
Section 3.05. 
The Guarantor, through its Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, 
shall implement the Guarantor's Energy Benefits Program as per the Regulation dated 
Page  5
-
3
-
November 11, 1998 on the Enforcement of Social Assistance Law promulgated on  
May 19, 1998 aimed at mitigating the social impacts of increased electricity and heating 
tariffs and shall review and adjust such program, as appropriate, to take into account the 
increase in district heating tariffs. 
 
Section 3.06. 
The Guarantor shall ensure that all necessary permits and 
authorizations to carry out the Project shall be delivered to the Borrower by the 
appropriate authorities in a timely manner.  
Section 3.07. 
The Guarantor shall adopt or cause to be adopted, all regulations 
which are necessary or appropriate to achieve the purpose of the Project in accordance 
with the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. 
ARTICLE IV 
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses 
Section 4.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 4.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of   
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Guarantor: 
 
Minister of Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
102 Rakovski St 
1040 Sofia 
Republic of Bulgaria 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
    
 
22727 
  359 
2 
980 
6863 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)   
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA 
 
By 
/s/  Milen Velchev 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Andrew N. Vorkink 
 
Director 
South Central Europe Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 
 
