                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR0000864




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IBRD ­ 47030, 47040)

                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$34.2 MILLION

                                        TO

                              TOPLOFIKACIA SOFIA AND

                               TOPLOFIKACIA PERNIK

                                 FOR THE BULGARIA

                            DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT

                                  December 30, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               Currency Unit = Bulgarian Leva (BGN)

                                           Exchange Rates
                              January 6, 2003         November 7, 2008
                                (appraisal)
                        EUR 1.00 = US$1.05         EUR 1.00 = US$1.28
                        EUR 1.00 = BGN 1.96        EUR 1.00 = BGN 1.96
                        US$1.00 = BGN 1.87         US$1.00 = BGN 1.52



                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1 -- December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                KIDSF     Kozloduy International Decommissioning
                                                           Support Fund (EU grant)
CHP   Combined Heat and Power                    MEE       Ministry of Economy and Energy
DH    District Heating                           MTR       Mid Term Review
DHC   District Heating Company                   MW        Megawatt
DSM   Demand Side Management                     MWh       Megawatt hour
EBP   Energy Benefit Program                     NPV       Net Present Value
EBRD  European Bank for Reconstruction and       PAL       Programmatic Adjustment Loan
      Development
ENPV  Economic Net Present Value                 PCF       Prototype Carbon Fund
ERPA  Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement      PIU       Project Implementation Unit
ERR   Economic Rate of Return                    PSP       Private Sector Participation
ESP   Electrostatic Precipitator                 SEWRC     State Energy and Water Regulatory
                                                           Commission
EU    European Union                             TA        Technical Assistance
FNPV  Financial Net Present Value                TS        Toplofikacia Sofia
FRR   Financial Rate of Return                   TP        Toplofikacia Pernik
FRP   Financial Recovery Plan                    USAID     United States Agency for International
                                                           Development
HAC   Heat Accounting Companies                  VAT       Value Added Tax
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction
      and Development (World Bank)




                                Vice President:       Shigeo Katsu
                               Country Director:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                                Sector Director:      Peter Thomson
                          Project Team Leader:        Sudipto Sarkar
                              ICR Team Leader:        Sudipto Sarkar




                                                  2

                                       DISTRICT HEATING PROJECT


                                                 CONTENTS


Data Sheet
A. Basic Information............................................................................................................ i
  B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... i
  C. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ...........................................................................................ii
  E. Bank Staff...................................................................................................................ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis.....................................................................................iii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
  H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................................. v
  I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................. vi
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 37
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 37
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 40
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................... 41
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 47
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48


MAP




                                                           3

A. BASIC INFORMATION

Country:                Bulgaria               Project Name:          District Heating Project
                                                                      IBRD-47030,IBRD-
Project ID:             P008314                L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      47040
ICR Date:               12/22/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      TOPLOFIKACIA
                                                                      SOFIA &
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      TOPLOFIKACIA
                                                                      PERNIK
Original Total
                        USD 34.2M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 40.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Toplofikacia Sofia
Toplofikacia Pernik
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)


                                       B. KEY DATES


     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/27/1994     Effectiveness:       10/31/2003          10/31/2003
Appraisal:             01/07/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/17/2003     Mid-term Review:     10/31/2005          11/21/2005
                                      Closing:             06/30/2008          06/30/2008


                                   C. RATINGS SUMMARY

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:            Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing           Satisfactory



                                               i

                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


                               D. SECTOR AND THEME CODES

                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
District heating and energy efficiency services                 100                100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other urban development                                         Primary           Primary


                                        E. BANK STAFF

         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos             Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:           Peter Thomson (Sector Director) Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:      Sudipto Sarkar                     Sudipto Sarkar
ICR Team Leader:          Sudipto Sarkar
ICR Primary Author:       Sudipto Sarkar
                          Pekka Kalevi Salminen
                          Kishore Nadkarni
                          Evgeny Iliev Evgeniev
                          Sati Achath




                                               ii

                           F. RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS


Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives are to assist the Sofia District Heating Company (or
Sofia Toplofikacia, TS) and Pernik District Heating Company (or Pernik Toplofikacia,
TP) to: (i) improve the quality of their services; (ii) improve their financial viability; and
(iii) increase environmentally friendly operations through energy conservation and
pollution reduction measures.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project development objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Increase in connection percentage
Value
quantitative orTS: 85%                     TS: 90%                            TS: 96%

Qualitative)   TP: 63%                     TP: 69%                            TP: 85%

Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Targets exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Positive fiscal effect - phase-out of operating subsidy
Value
quantitative orTS: BGN 4.5 mln             TS: 0                              TS: 0

Qualitative)   TP: BGN 1.1 mln             TP: 0                              TP: 0

Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Target met as operating subsidies were phased out, starting in 2005
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Improvement in working ratio
Value
quantitative orTS: 1.15                    TS: 0.88                           TS: 1.14

Qualitative)   TP: 1.15                    TP: 0.89                           TP: 1.15

Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments       Target partially met. Situation improved until 2006 due to increase in tariffs.
(incl. %       However, the situation was reverted in 2007 as tariff increases did not keep pace
achievement)   with increasing operating costs due to rapid increase in fuel prices
Indicator 4 :  Increased domestic bill collection rate
Value          TS: 80%                     TS: 85%                            TS: overall
quantitative or                                                               collection 86%,
Qualitative)   TP: 50%                     TP: 84%                            domestic collection



                                               iii

                                                                               79%
                                                                               TP: overall
                                                                               collection 85%,
                                                                               domestic collection
                                                                               68%
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Target partially met. The domestic bill collection was lower than expected.

achievement)    However, the overall bill collection due to electricity sales were close to targets

Indicator 5 :   Reduction in network heat losses
Value
quantitative or TS: 16.7%                  TS: 15.6%                           TS: 17.5%

Qualitative)    TP: 31.9%                  TP: 25.5%                           TP: 24.4%

Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments        In TS, actual losses were lower compared to appraisal but targets not met if
(incl. %        expressed in percentage terms as the denominator (heat production) reduced
achievement)    significantly. In TP, target met in percentage terms.

Indicator 6 :   Decrease in energy heat consumption. The indicator used is heat consumption
                (MWh/household/year)
Value
quantitative or TS: 12.7 MWh               TS: 10.6 MWh                        TS: 9.1 MWh

Qualitative)    TP: 14.9 MWh               TP: 10.6 MWh                        TP: 9.9 MWh

Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   Decrease in carbon dioxide emissions - tons of Emission Reductions (ER)
                                           TS: 1,084,000 tons
                                           (PCF); and 2.7
Value           TS: 0 tons                 million tons total
quantitative or                                                                TS: 925,462 tons

Qualitative)    TP: 0 tons                 TP: 157,000 tons                    TP: 197,091 tons

                                           (PCF) and 186,000
                                           tons total
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2012                          12/31/2007
                In TS, the PCF target will be met in 2008 and the company on track to meet total
Comments        target
(incl. %        In TP, the PCF and total targets have been met - 157.000 tons were sold to PCF
achievement)    and 40,091 to the Bank (under a program for the Bank to reduce its carbon
                footprint)
Indicator 8 :   Decrease in particulate emissions in TP
Value
quantitative or 1,600 mg/m3                100 mg/m3                           50 mg/m3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007
Comments        Target will be met in early 2009 when the electrostatic precipitator will be
(incl. %        operational. It has been installed and is designed to reduce particulate emissions
achievement)    to 50 mg/m3



                                                iv

Indicator 9 :  Decrease in network water losses
Value
quantitative orTS: 3,085,000m3             TS: 1,650,000m3                     TS: 2,300,000m3

Qualitative)   TP: 420,000m3               TP: 280,000 m3                      TP: 212,000m3

Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                          12/31/2007

Comments       In TS, target partially met as water losses less than that at appraisal; loss reduced

(incl. %       to 1.8 million m3/year (2006) but increased to 2.3 mln. m3 (2007) due to

achievement)   deterioration of network not covered under the project.
               TP: Target met

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval            Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values       Target Years


                    G. RATINGS OF PROJECT PERFORMANCE IN ISRS


                                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP                  Disbursements
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/27/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                          0.00
  2     12/01/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                          0.37
  3     06/15/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                          5.41
  4     12/03/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                         17.33
  5     12/17/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                         17.69
  6     05/19/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                         21.20
  7     01/24/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                         26.05
  8     12/15/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                         31.95
  9     12/21/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                         38.72
  10    06/24/2008           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                         40.52



                                H. RESTRUCTURING (IF ANY)

Not Applicable




                                               v

                                    I. DISBURSEMENT PROFILE




Note: The actual disbursements are in US $ equivalent and due to the exchange rate fluctuations they are
more than the original disbursement estimates.




                                                   vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background: The project was implemented during Bulgaria's
transition from a European Union (EU) accession country to an EU member country. At
appraisal, the sector was generating approximately 11 GWh of heat energy and 1.8 GWh
of electricity (in the Combined Heat and Power plants) and represented about 25% of
energy consumption in the country. About 80% of this energy came from natural gas with
other sources being coal (12%) and mazut (8%). The gas is imported and subject to
international prices. Within Bulgaria, gas transmission and distribution is managed by
Bulgargas, a state-owned company formed in 1990. Bulgaria has deposits of coal and
annual production is around 30 million tons. The largest mine is in Maritsa, and there are
other smaller mines including one in Pernik which produces about 1.5 million tons
annually. Toplofikacia Sofia (TS) uses gas for its energy source. Toplofikacia Pernik
(TP) uses coal, from the Pernik mine, as its energy source.

District Heating (DH) is the most economic form of providing heat in urban areas where
DH networks exist. However, starting from the early 1990s, before Bulgaria's accession
to the EU, the district heating sector in Bulgaria went through difficult times. Some of the
difficulties faced were:

·       Switch to uneconomic forms of heating: Declining incomes did not allow
        consumers to afford district heating (DH) and about 30% of the consumers
        disconnected themselves from this service. These consumers moved to other
        forms of heating ­ mainly electricity. Heat delivered through electricity typically
        consumes more fuel compared to DH. Thus, the switch by consumers to use
        electricity for heating purposes was not economical for Bulgaria.

·       Lack of demand-side management (DSM): Consumers could not control their heat
        consumption because heat radiators lacked regulators. Bills were not based on
        actual heat consumption but on apartment size. Further, the heat entering a block
        of apartments through a sub-station was not measured because there were no
        meters in substations. These factors did not encourage energy conservation. In
        addition, because consumers could not control heat consumption room
        temperatures were adjusted by opening or closing windows, which wasted energy.

·        Inadequate tariffs leading to the need for operating subsidies. Because tariffs did
        not cover operating costs the DH companies became dependent on State operating
        subsidies, for example, in 2002, US$70 million in subsidies was provided to the
        DH companies. Insufficient tariffs also prevented the DH companies from making
        investments to rehabilitate the DH networks. Since Bulgaria lacked a clear policy
        to increase tariffs and costs were rising, the DH companies' financial situation
        grew worse each year.




                                              1

·        Depletion of assets. The financial constraints of the DH companies made network
         rehabilitation unaffordable, which increased heat and water losses. Routine
         maintenance was deferred and parts were not replaced, which in turn led to
         increased heat and water losses affecting the financial position of the DH
         companies.

To address these issues, the Government prepared a District Heating Strategy (August
2000) that was eventually adopted by Parliament (July 2002). The strategy identified the
issues in detail and proposed policy measures, including some that led to the revival of
the sector--related to regulating tariffs, promoting DSM, and privatizing DH companies.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy1 (CAS) was
designed to help Bulgaria with reforms to meet its EU Accession requirements such as
improving the business climate and accelerating private-sector led growth, especially in
the provision of infrastructure services. The CAS explicitly outlined the preparation of
this project to improve the service quality and financial performance of District Heating
(DH) companies, promote energy efficiency, and provide targeted assistance to the poor.
In addition, the CAS Country Program Framework had an environmental development
objective to support Bulgaria in maintaining headroom for tradable carbon under the
Kyoto Protocol. This objective was met with the Bank assisting TS and TP to sell the
reduction in carbon emissions to the Prototype Carbon Fund. Furthermore, the Bank had
assisted in the preparation of the Government's District Heating Strategy and the master
plans for the investments in TS and TP. These activities, prior to the project, established
the partnership between the Bank and Government that helped with the preparation and
implementation of the project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The three project development objectives were to assist the Sofia District Heating
Company (TS) and Pernik District Heating Company (TP) to:

·        Improve the quality of their services, measured through increased connection
         rates2 from 85 to 90% in Sofia and from 63 to 69% in Pernik.

·        Improve their financial viability, measured through:
         (i) Positive fiscal impact: improvements supported under the project were
         projected to decrease State assistance to TS and TP to zero after 2005;
         (ii) Improvement in working ratio: the 2002 working ratios were 1.15 in TS and
         1.22 in TP; these were expected to decline to 0.88 and 0.89 at end-2007; and
         (iii) Increased bill collection rate: domestic bill collection rate (with arrears) was
         80% in TS and 50% in TP, and these were expected to increase to at least 85% in
         Sofia and 84% in Pernik by end-2007.




1Document number: 283927-BUL; May 31, 2002.
2The ratio of households connected to the network relative to all households with network access.



                                                         2

·       Increase environmentally friendly operations through energy conservation and
        pollution reduction, measured through:
        (i) Reduced network heat losses: in 2002, network heat losses (total heat loss
        divided by production) were 16.7% for TS and 31.8% for TP. Over the life of the
        project, heat losses were expected to decrease to 10.4% in Sofia and 22.0% in
        Pernik;
        (ii) Decreased energy consumption: prevailing heat consumption of 12.7
        MWh/year/household in TS and 14.9 in TP were expected to drop by 2007 to a
        minimum of 10.6 and 12.1, respectively; and
        (iii) Other environmental benefits: (a) carbon dioxide emissions from
        improvements to energy efficiency would be reduced by 2.7 million tons in TS
        and 186,000 tons in TP during 2003-12; (b) particulate emissions at Pernik for
        Boiler No. 5 would be reduced from 1,600 mg/m3 to 100 mg/m3; and (c) network
        water losses would decrease by 45% for TS (from 3 million m3/year) and by 30%
        for TP (from 400,000 m3/year).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justifications.
The objectives were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
Primary project beneficiaries were district heating consumers. TS and TP benefitted from
the project through the rehabilitation that was carried out leading to energy savings, water
savings, reduced carbon emissions, and reduced air pollution, all of which created
economic and environmental benefits. At project start-up, Sofia and Pernik consumers
were moving to other forms of heating and disconnection rates from the DH system were
climbing but the project reversed this trend, resulting in significant savings for the
economy. In the absence of the project and a switch to other forms of heating, new forms
of heating (electricity and gas) would have had to be introduced, requiring new
infrastructure investments for gas distribution pipelines, and additional generation and
transmission capacity.

The project facilitated DSM so that consumers could control and measure their heat
consumption. Through project activities, average heat consumption per household
decreased as the use of cost allocators, regulators, and new substations became more
widespread. Project activities also created a direct fiscal benefit by helping to eliminate
operating subsidies from the central government budget.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project was mainly focused on rehabilitation of the networks in TS and TP and
financed by the Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the two
district heating companies (TS and TP) and Kozloduy International Decommissioning
Support Fund (KIDSF), managed by EBRD.




                                             3

The Bank portion of the project had two components, described below, one each for TS
and TP. The Bank portion was co-financed by the DH companies.

·      Component 1 (Total Cost: US$ 44.22 million equivalent) in TS which included:

       (a) Network Rehabilitation - Replacement and/or installation of transmission
       pipelines (about 30 km) and replacement of thermal insulation on over-ground
       pipelines. Replacement of valves and compensators in the transmission and
       distribution network. Installation of variable speed pumping systems at the main
       heat sources;
       (b) Substation Rehabilitation - Replacement of 1,097 DH substations; and
       (c) Technical Assistance: (i) to manage and implement the project, including audit
       services and a public awareness campaign to promote energy conservation; (ii) to
       introduce the private sector for heat production and distribution.

·      Component 2 (Total Cost: US$ 13.67 million equivalent) in TP which included:

       (a) Substation Rehabilitation ­ Replacement of 700 DH substations;
       (b) Network Rehabilitation - Replacement of transmission pipelines (about 10
       km), valves and compensators in transmission and distribution network, and
       network monitoring system; installation of variable-speed pumping system at
       main heat source;
       (c) Generation Plant Rehabilitation - Replacement of outdated electrostatic
       precipitator (ESP) for a boiler in the coal fired combined heat and power plant.
       Rehabilitation of chemical water treatment plant, and rehabilitation of automation
       and control equipment for coal conveyor system; and
       (d) Technical Assistance - for project management and implementation, audit
       services, and a public awareness campaign to promote energy conservation.

The total cost of the Sofia project was US$119.1 million equivalent3 and was financed by
the Bank (US$27.2 million equivalent), TS (US$27.5 million equivalent), EBRD
(US$31.4 million equivalent), KIDSF (US$31.4 million equivalent), and EU Phare grant
for project implementation (US$ 1.6 million equivalent). The total cost of the project in
Pernik was US$13.6 million and was financed by the Bank (US$7.0 million) and TP
(US$6.6 million). In addition the following sources of financing supported the project:

·      The Bank's Prototype Carbon Fund (PCF) agreed to purchase carbon emission
       reductions from TS and TP due to activities related to the project; and




3The figures are expressed in equivalent as the Bank and EBRD loans and the EU KIDSF and Phare grants
to TS were denominated in Euros. The Bank loan to TP was denominated in US Dollars.




                                                   4

·       A United States Agency for International Development (USAID) grant of around
        US$1.0 million was made available for consultants to assist with transactions
        related to private sector participation (PSP) in TS.

1.6 Revised Components

There were no major revisions to the components. However, due to competitive prices,
additional works, fully in line with the project objectives, were possible. For instance in
TS: (i) the original plan was to replace about 8,030 substations, including 1,097 financed
by the Bank. However, after the KIDSF financing is completed (June 30, 2009) about
10,320 substations would be replaced; and (ii) the original plan was to replace about 60
km of transmission network (30 each financed by the Bank and EBRD/KIDSF) but to
date about 92 km of the network has been replaced. These additional investments were
needed to rehabilitate the DH systems and these efforts to upgrade the network should
continue in the future to reduce energy and water losses. Other minor changes are
mentioned in Annex 2 and include: procurement of a billing system in TS to modernize
the bill collection process; and financing a coal crusher and a calorimeter in TP, instead
of investments in the coal conveyer system and water filtration plant as these were
financed by TP.

In TP, at appraisal, KIDSF financing was not envisaged. However, during project
implementation, a grant of  10.4 million was provided by KIDSF and managed by
EBRD. This grant financed rehabilitation of about 8 km of transmission network and the
purchase and installation of a new boiler (Boiler No. 5) which is physically connected to
the electrostatic precipitator (Bank financed) to reduce particulate emissions.

1.7 Other significant changes

No significant changes were made to project design, scope, implementation arrangements,
or financing. The schedule of activities was not revised as TS and TP completed their
activities in a timely manner; the project closed June 30, 2008, as planned at appraisal.
The 2007 target indicator on reduction in heat losses in percentage terms was revised in
2005 for both TS and TP. This was necessary as the production of heat (the denominator
to calculate the indicator) was decreasing at a rate that was not expected at appraisal. In
TS, the target network heat losses were reduced from 10.4% to 15.6%; and a similar
adjustment from 22.0% to 25.0% was made in TP.

Due to the inclusion of the KIDSF grant in TP, the overall project cost increased from 
12.99 to 18.04 million equivalent, with TP reducing its share of financing from  6.31 to
2.04 million equivalent. In TS, the EBRD loan ( 30 million) was divided into two equal
tranches of  15 million each. The second tranche was not released as its release was
conditional upon TS entering into a management contract which did not take place.
However, the project covered more than what it had expected to cover due to costs that
were lower than anticipated.




                                               5

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Careful consideration was given to the policy environment to ensure that it could sustain
project-supported physical investments that were first appraised in June 1999 when the
objective was to rehabilitate the district heating networks. However, progress in the
policy environment in 1999 was deemed insufficient to support the investments. As a
result, the Government of Bulgaria and the World Bank agreed that it would be prudent
to first complete upfront reforms to revive the DH sector and create conditions conducive
for the project to succeed.        At appraisal, TS was owned partially by the central
Government (represented by the Ministry of Economy and Energy - MEE) and the
Municipality of Sofia. TP was fully owned by the central Government, represented by
MEE. Thus, as shareholders in both companies and having a thorough understanding of
the sector needs, the Government deemed the underlying sector economics in 1999 were
too risky to provide a sovereign guarantee required for a World Bank loan. After
appraisal in June 1999, Government and the Bank put the project on hold and pursued
sectoral development. The Bank helped prepare a District Heating Strategy (August
2000) as part of the overall Energy Strategy approved by the Council of Ministers (May
11, 2002) and eventually, the Parliament (July 17, 2002).

Implementation of the District Heating Strategy formed part of the three-year series of
Bank Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL,4 FY03-05) and Government committed to
reforming the sector through a Letter of Development Policy dated December 20, 2002.
Following are some major achievements in sector reform that led to the project being
reappraised in 2003.

·        During 1998-02, domestic tariffs were increased by 94% (nominal terms);
         inflation during the same period was around 30%;
·        In November 2001, the Energy Law was amended to make cost allocators and
         heat regulators mandatory in apartment buildings, making it possible for DH
         companies to bill against actual consumption, and for consumers to control their
         consumption. This policy change significantly reduced household energy
         consumption;
·        Government promoted the introduction of private Heat Accounting Companies
         (HACs) to install cost allocators and heat regulators in radiators. This had a
         significant impact on DSM as consumption per radiator could be controlled and
         heat usage measured. The HACs provided a fee-based service to measure heat
         consumption and report the bill to the consumer and the DH companies; and
·        Government started to replace old substations (typically one per block of
         apartments), supported through the Bank's Water Companies' Modernization and
         Restructuring project, which helped accurately measure heat supplied to a


4The actions by the Government under the three year PAL program are outlined in the Project Appraisal
Document (pages 11 and 12)




                                                  6

        building so costs could be allocated among apartments. Replacement of these old
        substations was a key step in introducing DSM. Further, the replacement program
        significantly reduced the old substations' high heat losses.

Progress on the policy front due to implementation of the DH Strategy led to the project
being re-appraised in January 2003. The objectives were realistic and the proposed
investments under the project were intended to complement the policy measures. Two
separate Bank loans were made to TS and TP, guaranteed by the Government of
Bulgaria. During the January 2003 appraisal, the institutional strength of TS and TP was
assessed and their capacity was deemed sufficient to make them the Borrowers and give
them direct responsibilities for implementing the project and meeting the objectives. The
accountability and responsibilities in implementing the project were clear within TS and
TP. Further, the implementation was not complex and the objective of the project was
fully in line with goals of Government, TS, and TP. Government also required TS and TP
to prepare Financial Recovery Plans to demonstrate financial positions that were
improving sufficiently to justify a sovereign guarantee.

Also, the project was prepared in close coordination with the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), a co-financer. The World Bank and the
EBRD appraised the project in the same time period and both institutions had a similar
covenant related to the introduction of the private sector for the provision of heat in TS.
The project design took into account lessons learned from Bank-assisted energy sector
projects in Bulgaria and other countries, and adopted appropriate measures to mitigate all
major risks identified at appraisal.

Lessons of earlier operations taken into account.

·       Willingness to reform should be demonstrated. Issues related to DH can be
        complicated since they involve matters related to the State budget, energy policy,
        and social benefits. Thus, the project was re-appraised in January 2003 after
        reforms were taken by the Government which allowed a proper policy
        environment to be in place for the investment operation to be successful. Other
        upfront actions were taken to support the project to meet its objective: TS
        restructured its payables to Bulgargas (effectiveness condition) and TP separated
        its operations from a mine that was making a loss (appraisal condition; supported
        by the Government through a decision on September 13, 2002).

·       Location of Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Project ownership is diminished
        and project implementation suffers if the PIU is located outside the district
        heating company or staffed entirely with external consultants. Instead, project
        activities were integrated with regular operations in both TS and TP because PIU
        staff were drawn from the companies' technical, financial, and commercial
        departments and still carried out their other regular functions.

·       Need for demand-side management (DSM). District heating project sustainability
        is more secure if consumers receive good quality service at affordable prices.



                                              7

        Consequently, prior policy actions were taken to strengthen the sector and
        improve the financial positions of DH companies. The policy changes included
        raising tariffs and mandatory installation of heat cost allocators and radiator heat
        regulators, which provided consumers with incentives and mechanisms to limit
        their consumption. Thus, DSM led to a drop in household heat consumption and
        supported the comeback of DH as a clean source of apartment heating.

Risks and Risk Mitigation Measures. A detailed analysis of the risks and mitigation
measures was carried out at appraisal which covered issues such as: overall risk, tariffs
would be unaffordable, private sector participation (PSP) in TS may not be timely,
financial recovery plans may not be followed, possible delays in policy reforms, possible
delays in project implementation, and fuel prices may fluctuate. Mitigation measures for
these risks and how they were addressed are included in Annex 2. The overall risk rating
was high but the following mitigation measures helped for the satisfactory
implementation of the project: upfront policy measures, effective implementation teams
in TS and TP, DSM program through which energy was conserved at household levels,
and tariff increases ­ although they did not keep pace with rapid increases in fuel prices.

Adequacy of participatory processes. In 1999, a survey was carried out both for Sofia
and Pernik to determine consumer's willingness and ability to pay for district heating
services. A follow up survey was done in 2002 that also sought opinion from the public
about the quality of service. The findings of these two surveys, especially the desire of
the consumers to have DSM, were taken into account while designing the project. Further,
surveys were carried out during project implementation to determine the perception of the
consumers about the DH service (Annex 5).

2.2 Implementation

The project was not restructured, no major changes were made to the design, and the
implementation was never at risk. The implementation teams in TS and TP were effective,
gave the Bank regular updates, and sought clarifications when needed. All planned
project investments have been completed.

The Bank conducted regular missions and held a Midterm Review (MTR) in November
2005. A project launch workshop was held and a Project Implementation Plan was
prepared that helped with project implementation. Issues raised during the mission were
addressed by the two DH companies.            Overall implementation was effective, but
expectations were not fully met in the following three areas:

·       Tariff Increases: Tariffs are not controlled by TS and TP. Under Bulgarian
        regulations, DH utilities prepare an annual tariff proposal based on their costs.
        The State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (SEWRC)--an independent
        body reporting to the Council of Ministers--reviews the proposal and approves a
        tariff to be implemented. Rising prices for gas (TS) and coal (TP) required tariff
        increases for both companies. SEWRC allowed the tariffs to increase but the
        levels were lower than the utilities proposed and there was a time lag between the



                                              8

      increase in fuel prices and adjustments in tariffs. If higher tariff levels had been
      approved, both companies may have had additional revenues.

·     Bill collection: Collection rates in TS and TP fell slightly below estimated targets,
      despite company efforts to increase collections. They initiated court cases to
      recover arrears from non-paying consumers, offered to forego interest payments
      on past due district heating bills as an incentive, and sold the receivables to a
      collection agency (TP). However, district heating is often perceived as an
      entitlement or social service, making it difficult to terminate services to non-
      paying consumers which may have affected the bill collection rate.

·     Management contract in TS: The company had full intentions of meeting the
      stipulations of the Loan Agreement to complete the bidding process and secure a
      private operator by December 30, 2003, in line with a December 18, 2002
      Decision of the Municipality to introduce the private sector for the provision of
      heat. EBRD's loan was in two phases and the second tranche ( 15 million)
      required TS to enter into a contract with an operator. As can be seen from the
      chronology of events below, a good faith effort to meet this condition was made
      but ultimately, at project closing a private sector service provider was not in place
      and consequently, the second tranche of EBRD's loan was not released.
      -   During the early part of the implementation period, the United States Agency
          for International Development (USAID) funded a consultant to provide
          options for PSP and assist with the selection of an operator;
      -   The shareholders decided to proceed with a management contract, a form of
          PSP. Based on this decision, bidders were pre-qualified, bidding documents
          were prepared, a management contract was drafted, and a pre-bid meeting was
          held with the pre-qualified bidders (September 24, 2004);
      -   The final bidding to select an operator did not take place as the shareholders
          of TS started to consider a higher form of private sector participation, such as
          privatization or concession (the Sofia water company is under a concession).
          Also, due to central and local government elections, a decision on PSP was
          delayed;
      -   A Memorandum of Understanding between the Minister of Economy and
          Energy and the Mayor of Sofia Municipality was signed where by the two
          shareholders agreed to privatize the company and begin selecting a consultant
          for the privatization of TS (July 2006). The advisor selection process stalled
          due to increases in gas prices resulting in increasing payables of TS to
          Bulgargas. It was felt that the issue of payables had to be addressed first
          before the company could be privatized; and
      -   In a recent development (November 2008), the Sofia Municipality agreed to
          transfer all its shares (58%) to the Ministry of Economy and Energy. The
          central Government will now be the only shareholder of TS and options are
          being considered to reduce the payable to Bulgargas.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design: Project monitoring was based on indicators that were suitable to assess
how project objectives were being met, were readily available, and quantifiable. Most of


                                            9

the indicators were included in the regular business planning process of the company and
as a result, the project did not create an additional burden of tracking indicators outside of
regular operations. At appraisal, annual target values were established for each indicator
to chart a path of improvement for both companies; these annual monitoring targets are
available in the project files.

M&E implementation: The indicators used were mostly used by TS and TP for their own
business planning purposes and they did not have difficulty in collecting and reporting
the information. Both DH companies also submitted timely technical and financial data
to the Bank, including preparing summary information during a Bank supervision
mission. Indicators were reviewed against the annual targets established at appraisal

M&E utilization: The indicators were linked to expected outcomes, which in turn were
linked to project objectives, which made it easy to establish progress. Each company paid
attention to meeting annual targets for each indicator and if a target was missed, a
discussion of why that had happened and how to make improvements ensued between the
Bank and the companies.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management. Throughout the project life, a satisfactory financial management
system was maintained by TS and TP and the companies regularly submitted quarterly
financial monitoring reports and annual audit reports to the Bank. Project audit opinions
have all been unqualified and no significant internal control issues have been mentioned.
Counterpart financing was satisfactory during the project life. The Bank's Financial
Management Specialist (FMS) regularly reviewed project financial management
arrangements to ensure that they were in line with the requirements of the Loan
Agreement. Audit reports for FY07 and final quarterly reports for Q2 of 2008 have been
received by the Bank and they are satisfactory. The final audit reports for FY08 will be
received by the Bank before June 30, 2009.

In TS, the 2007 entity audit was qualified as the valuation of fixed assets, accounts
receivable, and provisions for tax liabilities were not appropriate. The auditors also noted
that the rising price of gas may cause the production costs to exceed tariffs approved by
SEWRC and such a situation would affect the financial position of the company and
could lead to restructuring and/or support from its shareholders (Sofia Municipality and
MEE). For TP, in 2007, the auditors expressed an unqualified audit opinion on the
entity's financial statements. However, they drew attention to the fact that TP's short
term liabilities exceeded short term assets, and that the company was a defendant under a
law suit for unpaid liabilities. These issues raised some doubt as to the company's ability
to continue as a going concern. The MEE as the shareholder of both companies is aware
of the issues and is taking measures to keep the companies operational. In TS, the capital
is expected to be increased so that its dues to Bulgargas are paid. In TP, the preparation
for privatization has started (Fall 2008) and prior to the company being privatized, the
liabilities of the company arising from lawsuits would have to be settled.




                                              10

Procurement. The project was implemented according to Bank procurement guidelines
and no major procurement-related problems occurred during project implementation. The
PIUs in both district heating companies were supported by an international consultant
(financed by EU Phare and KIDSF grants) and they managed the procurement process
well and according to the planned schedules. The Procurement Specialist for this project
is based in the Bank's office in Sofia which greatly facilitated in addressing any
procurement matters that came up during the implementation.

Environment. The project was subject to Bank's OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment
and it was rated as a category B project. Project environmental impacts were due to
construction activities and limited to noise, dust, minor traffic disruptions, and handling
of construction waste. During implementation there were no environmental issues raised
and the Environmental Management Plan was followed by TS and TP. Project
environmental benefits were significant due to reduced energy and water losses and lower
carbon emissions.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Transition Arrangement: TS and TP are established utilities providing an important
service. The companies have adequate capacity to operate effectively after the project
and the demand for their services would not decline. Both companies have effective
management and a supervisory structure that would ensure proper operations of these
utilities. However, both companies need to rehabilitate the aging distribution network as
the project replaced only a small portion of the networks in Sofia and Pernik (around
10%). Although, this type of rehabilitation is economically and financially sound due to
the savings created by reducing energy and water losses, the challenge is to have
sufficient internal resources to mobilize the financing required for the rehabilitation. The
following two factors, outside the control of the companies, will largely determine how
much resources could be generated for investments: the prices of gas and coal, which
account for about 70% and 60% of operating costs, in TS and TP; and whether tariffs
would be adjusted to meet increasing investment and operating costs.

Performance Indicators: Key Performance Indicators were part of regular company
operations and this information would be available for company managers and
shareholders. However, if a more limited set of indicators were to be used from Key
Performance Indicators, the following might be considered: working ratio, bill collection
rate, network heat losses, and average household energy consumption.

Follow-up Actions: At this stage, no Bank follow-up action is planned. The Government
has started institutional changes in both companies. For TS, the Sofia Municipality share
will be transferred over to the State which will be the sole owner of the company.
Regarding TP, the preparation for privatization has started under the Government's
Privatization Agency.       Prior to the privatization transaction, a pending lawsuit
(mentioned in the Project Appraisal Document) against TP would need to be addressed.
Under this lawsuit, claims have been made for TP to pay another company for services




                                            11

rendered in the past. During the implementation period of the project, the Bank did not
receive any information stating that the matter has been resolved.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Bulgaria, as an EU member country, has committed to conserve energy. The tremendous
gains in energy conservation at the household level--decline of heat consumption in TS
by 28% and in TP by 34% --will contribute to Bulgaria's efforts to conserve energy, as
will reduced network heat losses that were supported under the project. The current
energy crisis and fuel cost increases make these energy conservation efforts highly
relevant.

At appraisal, Bulgaria was an EU accession country carrying out and implementing
policy reforms in various sectors including those in energy. The Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy at that time was to support Bulgaria's EU Accession objective.
Today, Bulgaria is an EU member country and the activities carried out under the project
will continue to make project outcomes sustainable. Notably, Government, TS, and TP,
will continue to pursue: DSM to control household energy consumption; efficient
SEWRC functioning so that tariffs will meet costs; network rehabilitation; and selling
carbon emission reductions in TS and TP due to measures taken by the companies

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project intended to improve quality of services, improve financial viability, and
increase environmentally friendly operations. The goals to improve services and increase
environmentally friendly operations were met and in some cases, exceeded. On financial
viability, although the situation improved in both companies compared to their financial
position at appraisal, the results were mixed. Details are presented below and in Annex 2.

·       Improve Quality of Service: Project investments improved the quality of heating
        service. Consumers can now regulate their consumption based on apartment-level
        needs. Consumption-based billing means consumers now pay only for the heat
        they use. The Key Indicator for this was that the connection rates would be 90%
        and 69% in TS and TP, respectively. At the end of 2007, the connection rates
        were 96% and 85% in TS and TP, respectively, indicating that consumers are
        satisfied with the services. The outcome indicator for this objective was defined
        as `consumers express satisfaction about DH services'. Surveys carried out show
        that a large majority of subscribers, in both Sofia (75% in 2005) and Pernik (80%
        in 2004) prefer DH to all other sources of heating.

·       Improve the Financial Viability of DH companies:          This objective was not
        consistently achieved. There were progressive improvements during 2003-05,
        including elimination of Government operating subsidies by 2005. During this
        period, increases in electricity and heat tariffs were adequate to compensate for
        increases to fuel prices and other operating expenses. However, after this period,


                                             12

 the adjustments in tariffs did not keep pace with increases in fuel costs and other
 expenses.


      Key Financial                  Unit        2002    2003 2004 2005 2006    2007
      Parameters
                                       Toplofikacia Sofia
      Average heat tariff          BGN/MWh        41.3   42.9  47.2  51.4  59.6  60.4
      Average electricity tariff   BGN/MWh        76.0   80.0  80.0  80.0  82.0  95.0
      Natural gas purchase price  BGN/000 m3      243    235   223   245   302   325
      Average household heat       MWh/year       15.0   11.3  10.2  10.9   9.9   9.9
      consumption
      Working ratio                 number        1.14   1.00  0.93  0.91  1.08  1.14
      Collection ratio             percentage     80%    87%   90%   87%   80%   79%
      Annual net profit/loss      BGN million     -55.2  3.7   76.1  2.6   -10.5 -27.8
                                      Toplofikacia Pernik
      Average heat tariff          BGN/MWh        42.3   42.9  45.3  46.7  55.2  56.2
      Average electricity tariff   BGN/MWh        63.8   69.7  68.2  67.6  69.0  79.3
      Coal purchase price          BGN/tce        72.4   75.0  70.0  73.5  80.0  88.7
      Average household heat       MWh/year       12.7   11.6  10.2  10.4  10.1   9.1
      consumption
      Working ratio                 number        1.22   1.09  1.02  1.12  0.97  1.15
      Collection ratio             percentage     50%    55%   83%   80%    n/a  68%
      Annual net profit loss      BGN million     -1.1   0.6    1.4  -1.5   0.2  -2.5

 Improvement was to be measured through the following key indicators:

 (i)      positive net fiscal impact: this target was met as both TS and TP were able
          to phase out their operating subsidies by the end of 2005, as planned;
 (ii)     improvement in the working ratio: there were improvements in the initial
          years but tariffs did not keep pace with costs and the positive trend was
          reverted; and
 (iii)    increase in the domestic bill collection rate: although both companies
          made serious efforts to increase collection, the results were mixed and fell
          short of targets. In TS, the collection rate increased from 80% (2002) to
          90% (2004) but thereafter the company's public image was affected due to
          alleged misuse of funds by the company's management (not connected
          with the project). This may have affected collection rate and the rate in
          2007 was 79%. For TP, the collection rate is higher compared to appraisal
          ­ it improved from 50% (2002) to 68% (2007).

· Increase environmentally friendly operations. This objective was met and there
 was progress in all the indicators. While water and heat losses were reduced, they
 continue to increase in areas not covered under the project due to the aging
 network, and this needs to be addressed through an ongoing rehabilitation
 program in both companies:
 (i)      reduced network heat losses: compared to appraisal, heat losses in network
          were reduced. In TS, heat losses decreased from 935 GWh (2002) to 899




                                        13

               GWh (2007). Similarly, in TP, heat losses decreased from 116 GWh
               (2002) to 74 (2007).
       (ii)    reduced energy consumption: the DSM measures resulted in significant
               savings in heat consumption in apartments, exceeding targets. Household
               energy consumption decreased by 28% and 34% in TS and TP,
               respectively, leading to significant economic benefits.
       (iii)   demonstrated environmental benefits:
               a. reduced carbon emissions: carbon emissions have been reduced and
                   both companies have sold the emission reductions to the PCF on an
                   annual basis. In TS, the contracted amount with PCF is expected to be
                   delivered in 2008, before the 2012 deadline. In TP, the contract for the
                   sale of carbon with the PCF was met in 2007, before the 2012 deadline.
                   In addition, to reduce its carbon footprint, the Bank purchased 40,091
                   tons of Emission Reductions in 2008 from TP.
               b. reduced network water losses: compared to appraisal, water losses in
                   network were reduced. In TS, the water losses in 2006 reduced by
                   40% (target was 45% by project end). However, losses have started to
                   increase as large parts of the network ­ areas not covered under the
                   project - continue to deteriorate. In TP, the target met and losses were
                   reduced by about 50%.
               c. reduced particulate emissions: The electrostatic precipitator (ESP) is in
                   place in TP and has been connected to the new boiler financed by
                   KIDSF. The boiler and the ESP are expected to be operational in
                   December 2008 and the target of particulate emission (100 mg/m3) will
                   be exceeded, given the technical specification of the ESP.

3.3 Efficiency

At appraisal, both economic and financial rates of return and net present values had been
estimated. Utilizing the same methodology, they were re-estimated at project completion.
The results are summarized in the table below and details are provided in Annex 3.

                    Indicator            Sofia               Pernik
                                 Appraisal   Current   Appraisal  Current
                  ERR             23.5%       49.0%     18.3%      25.3%
                  ENPV million   BGN 146     BGN 214   BGN 9.5     BGN 12
                  FRR              18%         17%       11%        13%
                  FNPV million    BGN 65     BGN 53    BGN 0.5    BGN 3.5

The economic rate of return (ERR) in both cities after the project is higher than at
appraisal mainly due to the large energy savings due to DSM and improvements of the
network (variable flow pumping and replacement of sections of the network). Further,
there were savings to the economy as consumers switched from electricity to DH which
is the most economical way to provide heat. This high economic rate of return is an
important factor in rating the overall project outcome as satisfactory.




                                             14

The financial rate of return (FRR) and financial net present value (FNPV) have been re-
estimated by adjusting costs and benefits under the economic analysis to include only
those effects that have a direct financial impact (cost or benefit) for the two companies.
Thus, as compared to the ERR and economic net present value (ENPV), taxes (excluding
VAT) and duties have been included where applicable; and for fuel costs, the actual
financial prices paid by TS and TP for gas and coal, respectively, have been utilized.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall rating of the project is moderately satisfactory given that the project met two
of its objectives fully and the third objective was met partially. The project had three
objectives: improve quality of service, improve financial viability, and improve
environmentally friendly operations. The quality of service improved as seen through an
increased connection rate.       The achievements to improve environmentally friendly
services were also significant resulting in higher than expected economic rates of return:
heat and water losses in the networks reduced, household heat consumption decreased,
carbon emission reductions were sold to the PCF and the Bank, and particulate emissions
in Pernik will decrease when the electrostatic precipitator is operational. On improving
the financial viability, the results were mixed. Phasing out of the operating subsidy was a
positive development. Tariffs also increased throughout the duration of the project but
these increases could not keep pace with the steep increases in fuel prices which affected
the financial position of both companies. However, as DH is an important and basic
service, the Government is currently taking measures to ensure that the financial viability
of TS and TP continues to improve so that these companies are able to provide services in
a sustainable manner (Section 5.2(a)).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The reduction in household energy consumption due to DSM measures benefitted all
consumers, especially the vulnerable groups. As tariffs increased, without a decline in
household energy consumption, it would have been difficult for the poor and the
vulnerable groups to pay for their heating bills. The revival of the DH sector benefits the
society as heat now can be provided in a safe and economic manner.

b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institutional strengthening was not included in the project as TS and TP had adequate
capacity at appraisal. Since then, with the implementation of the project and overall focus
on institutions with Bulgaria joining the EU, the capacity in TS and TP has increased
further to carry out DH operations and investments.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
        None.



                                             15

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

As part of the project, surveys were carried out to determine the level of customer
satisfaction. In TS the surveys were carried out in 2002, 2004, and 2005 and in the last
survey 75% of the consumers reported being satisfied with services provided. Similar
surveys were carried out in TP in 2002 and 2004; in the 2004 survey, 80% of the
population reported satisfaction with the services provided (Annex 5). Given this high
level of customer satisfaction and as consumers were reconnecting to the DH system (a
proxy indicator on the level of satisfaction), additional surveys after 2005 were not
carried out.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

Considering overall developments in Bulgaria, which is now an EU member country, the
risk is low that there would be back-tracking in the development outcomes for the
following reasons:

     · Bulgaria's EU accession has spurred growth and rising income levels, which will
         increase the financial viability of DH companies as tariffs increase. This in turn
         will allow the DH companies to rehabilitate networks. TS and TP have adequate
         technical, financial, and commercial capacity to carry out works. Other
         rehabilitation needs have already been identified and the two companies will
         continue to upgrade the network to reduce energy and water losses.

     · Bulgaria, as an EU member country, will continue to focus on addressing
         environmental issues. Therefore, environmental gains achieved during project
         implementation are likely to be maintained through: household energy
         conservation, reduced heat and water losses in the DH networks, and reduced
         carbon emissions.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance in project identification, preparation, and appraisal was satisfactory.
To ensure quality at entry and create an environment conducive for project success, the
project was re-appraised in January 2003, which allowed policy measures to be
implemented. Furthermore, to ensure quality, the project was supported by actions under
the Bank's three year PAL program. At appraisal, detailed reviews were conducted of the
project's technical economic, financial, and institutional issues to ensure that project
design supported the development objectives.




                                             16

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank project supervision team focused on development objectives and provided
guidance to TS and TP to meet the Key Indicators. As needed, the Bank team also met
with the shareholders of the two companies - the MEE and the Sofia Municipality ­ on
matters that need their support. The Bank team included technical, financial, financial
management, and procurement specialists who conducted regular project supervision and
helped prepare post-mission Aide Memoires that outlined findings and areas for
Toplofikacia and World Bank follow-up actions.

On safeguard matters, the team regularly followed up on financial management issues,
including review of quarterly financial monitoring reports and annual audit reports. The
pending lawsuit issue in Pernik, where a company had made a claim against TP, was
monitored to determine the liability of the company. Audit reports in both companies
were used to determine the financial indicators of the project. Procurement supervision
was regular and there were no major issues on this matter. On environment safeguards,
an Environmental Management Plan was developed and followed by both companies.

A Mid Term Review was held in November 2005 to ensure that project implementation
was progressing as planned. During the early supervision phase, a project launch
workshop was held (July 18, 2003) and a Project Implementation Plan (June 2003) was
prepared to familiarize TS and TP with Bank's procedures, including procurement and
financial management. The Bank team kept Bank management informed about the
project and filed necessary memos and documents, including ten Implementation Status
Reports (ISRs). The ECA region carried out an audit of an ISR (dated December 21,
2007), which received an overall positive rating of 1.4 (with a score of 1 being Highly
Satisfactory and 2 being Satisfactory).

The Bank maintained regular contact with the co-financer of the project, EBRD, which
was implementing its own component and managing the EU KIDSF grant. For example,
for the private sector participation in TS, the Bank and EBRD were in regular contact
because they had similar covenants in the legal agreements. In TP, the Bank had close
contact with EBRD on implementing the Bank-financed electrostatic precipitator because
it was attached to the EU KIDSF grant-financed boiler. The Bank was also in contact
with USAID regarding the private sector participation efforts in TS. Further, the Bank
was in regular contact with PCF to facilitate the annual sale of emission reductions by TS
and TP.

Close supervision was made possible by a highly decentralized Bank team, which was
based in the Region in a nearby time zone, easing communication and reducing travel
costs. The Task Team Leader (TTL) was in Zagreb (three years); the Operations Officer
was in Sofia; the Procurement specialist was based in Sofia; the Financial Management
specialist was based in Bucharest; and Washington-based Bank staff provided specialized
technical and financial support.



                                                17

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory. Based on the satisfactory rating for project preparation and
supervision, the overall rating is also satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

During project preparation and implementation, Government undertook several policy
measures that helped to revive the DH sector.            Measures included preparing and
implementing the DH Strategy; phasing out operating subsidies; continuously adjusting
the Energy Benefit Program to cover vulnerable groups; legislating mandatory DSM
equipment (heat cost allocators and regulators) that led to a dramatic drop in household
energy consumption.      Finally, the Government supported sales of carbon emission
reductions to the Prototype Carbon Fund. On the issue of tariffs, the Government did not
interfere in the operations of SEWRC which is an independent regulatory body.
However, to ensure that both companies function in a sustainable manner, the
Government is currently taking measures. For TS, the Government will soon be the sole
owner and increase the capital of the company so that the payables to Bulgargas are
reduced. Through a letter dated November 25, 2008, the Ministry of Economy and
Energy informed the Bank that the Government action is a short-term emergency
measure to facilitate uninterrupted DH services. In the longer run, the Government will
ensure that company continues to operate in an efficient manner, in accordance with
applicable EU legislation.     For TP, the plans to privatize the company are being
implemented. There are other smaller DH companies in the country that are private and
the expectation is that TP will also be able to be fully sustainable as a private entity.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementation was satisfactory and timely because shareholders and management of TS
and TP fully supported activities of the project. Both companies had dedicated officials
to plan and execute the investments, including preparing quality bidding documents,
interacting with the Bank to quickly address issues, making counterpart funds available,
and reporting progress to the Bank on meeting project objectives and Key Indicators.
The PIU staff in TS and TP were adequate in number, well-qualified, and quickly learned
Bank procedures. The staff was in place for most of project duration, making project
implementation effective.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. Based on the satisfactory rating of Government and the TS and TP,
as mentioned above, the overall rating is also satisfactory.




                                              18

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

    · Policy setting is conducive to project success. Before the project started and in the
       early years of implementation, a number of policy measures were taken that
       supported the project. Also, a tariff regulatory system exists and tariffs were
       regularly increased. However, the tariff adjustments could not keep pace with
       increasing costs, especially those related to fuel. For the future, it would be useful
       to review: the tariff regulatory system to allow tariffs to meet costs; and the
       Energy Benefit Program so that the vulnerable groups are not affected by steep
       tariff increases.

    · Investments should be affordable. To avoid raising tariffs, the investments were
       chosen in a manner that would be affordable and result in savings for the
       companies. Thus, the project focused on DSM to conserve energy and critical
       network rehabilitation that would result in reducing heat and water losses.
       Further, a large part of the investments were funded by grants from KIDSF which
       reduced the financial burden in TS and TP to raise counterpart funds. The
       benefits of the reduction in heat and water losses are now apparent and both
       companies plan to continue with the rehabilitation programs with investments that
       are affordable and yield savings.

    · The PIUs should be integrated with operations. Project implementation was
       effective because TS and TP PIU staff were drawn from the companies, bringing
       necessary technical and financial skills. As needed, the PIUs were supported by
       specialized consultants. The PIU members maintained their other work functions,
       which meant that they were well-integrated in various TS and TP operations,
       easing project planning and implementation. Also project investments were
       carried out as part of the companies' regular investment programs. As the PIU
       members will continue to work in TS and TP, they can support improvements in
       the companies through the experience gained under the project.

    · A decentralized Bank team increases supervision effectiveness. The Bank team
       was highly decentralized as mentioned above. This increased contact and eased
       communication among the Bank and project entities, made travel cost-effective,
       and boosted implementation effectiveness. Thus, when possible, the Bank should
       consider decentralized staff to supervise projects.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Ministry of Economy and Energy, TS, and TP commented on the project and their
full comments are included in Annex 7. Some highlights of their comments are:




                                            19

·      MEE: the project yielded positive results in improving efficiency and quality of
       service. The ministry also noted that rehabilitation of the network is a cost
       effective way to improve efficiency and quality of operations.

·      TS: the company considered the project to be "exceptionally successful" and felt
       that the project was necessary, well-designed, and important for the company,
       Sofia city and Bulgaria. The company mentioned how the project increased
       environmentally friendly operations but also noted the difficulties in meeting
       costs due to high fuel costs and the regulatory framework, including the time lag
       between increases in gas prices (quarterly) and tariff adjustments (annual).
       Finally, the company mentioned that large parts of the network are more than 30
       years old and need to be replaced and for which appropriate policies to finance the
       investments need to be in place.

·      TP: the company considered that the project was "successful" and mentioned the
       progress made in reducing heat losses and meeting environmental targets. On the
       financial side, it recognized that while subsidies were eliminated, achievements
       fell short of expectations because of tariff regulations. The company mentioned
       the efforts made to improve the financial position of the company through sale of
       old receivables from consumers, court cases against non-paying consumers, and
       sale of assets.      The company mentioned the need to maintain a network
       rehabilitation program and indicated that improvements could be supported by the
       private sector which is expected to be in place within 2 years as the privatization
       process is underway in TP, since Fall 2008.


(b) Co-financiers

EBRD reported the implementation progress made during the project and the energy
savings that resulted from the investments. It also mentioned that its second tranche of
loan ( 15 million) was not disbursed as TS could not enter into a management contract,
as planned. EBRD also briefly mentioned the progress of the project in TS, funded by
KIDSF. Details are in Annex 8.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable.




                                           20

                           ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

The costs below refer only to the Bank portion of the project in TS and TP. The actual
costs are reported in the currencies used to denominate the Bank loans­Euros for TS and
US$ for TP.

SOFIA PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT


                                            Appraisal       Appraisal         Actual    Percentage
              COMPONENTS                     Estimate
                                           (US$ million      Estimate          Cost           of

                                            equivalent)     ( million)     ( million)    Appraisal


 1A Network Rehabilitation                     25.32           24.19           27.31         113
 Pipeline replacement                          12.44           11.89           12.81         108
 Compensators and valves                        4.92           4.70            5.66          120
 Thermal insulation of over ground pipes        2.09           2.00            1.42           71
 Variable flow pumping                          5.86           5.60            7.41          132
 1B Substation Rehabilitation                   1.99           1.90            2.39          126
 Insulation of regulators                       1.99           1.90            2.19          115
 Installation of water meters                   0.00           0.00            0.20            -
 1C Billing System                              0.00           0.00            0.91            -
 Billing hardware and software                  0.00           0.00            0.91            -
 1 D Technical Assistance                       3.20           3.06            2.62           86
 Incremental operating cost for PIU             0.21           0.20            0.10           50
 Financial management system                    0.03           0.03            0.01           35
 Financial audits                               0.11           0.11            0.23          219
 Consultancy for private sector
 participation (funded by USAID)                0.52           0.50            0.00           0

 Public awareness campaign (funded by
 TS)                                            0.42           0.40            0.00           0

 Design/supervision                             1.93           1.84            2.27          123
                      Total Baseline Cost      30.51           29.15           33.22         114
 Physical and Price Contingencies5              6.23           5.95                            -

                       Total Project Costs     36.75           35.11           33.22          95
 Front-end fee IBRD                             0.27           0.26            0.26          101
 VAT and import duties                          7.21           6.89            6.47           94
               Total Financing Required        44.22           42.25           39.96          95




5The contingencies of  5.95 million have been partly used during the project. The actual costs were
33.22 million (without VAT and Front end Fee of Bank loan) against an estimate of 35.11 million.




                                                21

PERNIK PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT


                                                  Appraisal        Actual
                                                                     Cost        Percentage
                COMPONENTS                        Estimate
                                                     (US$           (US$             of

                                                   million)        million       Appraisal
                                                                 equivalent)

 2A Substation Rehabilitation                        0.75            0.80           107
 Installation of substation equipment                0.75            0.80           107
 2B Network Rehabilitation                           4.74            5.27           111
 Pre-insulated pipes                                 2.95            3.34           113
 Compensators                                        0.19            0.19           100
 Modernization of pumping                            1.10            1.74           158
 Monitoring of DH system                             0.50            0.00             0
 2C Rehabilitation of Generation Plant               3.42            4.22           123
 Electrostatic precipitator                          3.10            3.81           123
 Water treatment                                     0.18            0.00             0
 Automation and control                              0.14            0.00             0
 Coal crusher                                        0.00            0.35             -
 Adiabatic Calorimeter                               0.00            0.06             -


 2D Technical Assistance                             0.56            0.60           107
                           Total Baseline Cost       9.47           10.89           115
 Physical and Price Contingencies6                   1.52             -               -

                            Total Project Costs     10.99           10.89            99
 Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.07            0.07           100
 VAT and import duties                               2.61            2.60           100
                    Total Financing Required        13.67           14.19           104




6The contingencies of US$ 1.52 million have been partly used during the project. The actual costs were
US$ 10.89 million (without VAT and Front end Fee of Bank loan) against an estimate of US$ 10.99
million.




                                                 22

FINANCING FOR THE PROJECT

The overall financing for the project is shown below. The Bank loans to TS and TP were
fully disbursed. As bulk of the actual expenditures was in Euros and the financing from
the Bank (for TS), EBRD and KIDSF were in Euros, the appraisal estimate in Euro
equivalent is compared to the actual expenditures in Euros.


                                             Appraisal       Appraisal         Actual

      Fund Source            Type of         Estimate        Estimate       Expenditure      Percentage of
                            Financing       (US$ million     ( million        ( million        Appraisal
                                            equivalent)     equivalent)      equivalent)
                                              Toplofikacia Sofia
    Toplofikacia Sofia      Own source         27.50           26.27            18.80              72
          Bank                 Loan            27.20           26.00            26.00              100
         EBRD                  Loan            31.407          30.00            14.30              48
         KIDSF                 Grant           31.40           30.00            30.00              100
        EU Phare               Grant            1.60            1.56             1.56              100
        Sub-total                              119.10          113.83           90.66              80
                                             Toplofikacia Pernik
   Toplofikacia Pernik     Own source           6.60            6.31             2.04              32
          Bank                 Loan             7.00            6.69             5.60              848
         KIDSF                 Grant              -               -             10.40
        Sub-total                              13.60           12.99            18.04             1399

        TOTAL                                  132.70          126.83          108.70              86




7EBRD's loan of  30 million was in two equal tranches. The second tranche of  15 million was not
disbursed as it was linked to TS signing a management contract.

8 The Bank loan of US $ 7 million in TP was fully disbursed. However due to the exchange rate
differences, a 84% disbursement is shown in Euro terms.

9In TP, the overall cost of the project increased due to the high cost of the boiler # 5 which is being
financed by KIDSF.




                                                      23

                                    ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

The achievements for each indicator, the description of works, and how the project risks
were addressed are summarized below.
                                  PROGRESS IN MEETING KEY INDICATORS
    Indicator                     Targets               Improvement                         Achievement
                                                             since
                                                         appraisal?
                                                          SOFIA

Increased                Connect 90% of                       Yes           The indicator has been met. Currently there
percentage of            consumers by end 2007                              are 362,578 households connected
connection to DH                                                            compared to 299,012 in 2002. Connection
                                                                            rate was 96% in end 2007
Demonstrated             Company operates                     Yes           There are no operating subsidies. Estimated
positive fiscal          without subsidies as of                            net fiscal benefit was BGN65 million
impact                   2005                                               during 2002-07
Improved working         Improve working ratio              Partial         Achieved improvements over base levels
ratio                    from 1.15 to 0.88 during                           during 2002-03; reverted to 1.14 in 2007
                         2002-06
Increased                Increase collection rate           Partial         Increased rate to 87% during 2003-05;
domestic bill            from 80 to 85% during                              reverted to 79% during 2006-07. Overall
collection rate          2002-07                                            bill collection with arrears is at 86% (2007)
Reduced network          Reduce losses from                   Yes           Heat loss in absolute terms reduced: 935
heat losses              16.7% to 15.6%10 during                            GWh (2002) and 1,017 GWh (2003) to 899
                         2002-07 (see footnote                              GWh (2007). Network losses in 2007 were
                         on using GWh as an unit                            17.5%11
                         to measure heat loss)
Decreased energy         Decrease from 12.7 to                Yes           In 2007, annual household energy
consumption              10.6 MWh/y/household                               consumption was 9.1 MWh, representing a
                         in 2007                                            28% reduction in energy consumption at
                                                                            the household level

Demonstrated             Reduce carbon                   Yes and on         Carbon reductions are being sold. TS has
environmental            emissions by 2.7 million            track          already sold 925,462 tons to PCF (2004 -
benefits                 tons during 2003-12;                               2007) and the contract value is expected to
                         Contract with PCF to                               be met by year end 2008
                         reduce emissions by
                         1.08 million tons (2004
                         and 2012)
                         Reduce network water          Partial              Water losses were reduced to 1.8 million
                         losses by 45% from                                 m3/year (2006), a reduction of 40%. But
                         3 million m3/year by                               water losses increased in 2007 to 2.3
                         2007.                                              million. Water losses reduced in the
                                                       .                    beginning of the project but they have
                                                                            started to increase which shows that there
                                                                            is further need to rehabilitate the aging DH
                                                                            network




10The target was revised in 2005 from 10.4% to 15.6%.
11Note: heat loss is better represented in GWh in this case as the heat production reduced (6,048 GWh in 2003 to 5,135
GWh) due to significant energy conservation in apartments. Such high levels of reduction in heat production ­ affecting
the denominator in calculating the percentage reduction in heat - were not expected at appraisal.



                                                           24

                                                    PERNIK
Increased              Connect 69% of              Yes.            The indicator has been met. Currently there
percentage of          consumers by end-2007                       are 16,768 households connected compared
connection to DH                                                   to 12,410 in 2002. Connection rate was
                                                                   85% in end 2007
Demonstrated           Company operates            Yes             There are no operating subsidies. Estimated
positive fiscal        without subsidies as of                     net fiscal benefit was BGN65 million
impact                 2005                                        during 2002-07
Improved working       Improve working ratio       Partial         Achieved improvements over base levels
ratio                  from 1.22 to 0.89 during                    during 2002-03; reverted to 1.15 in 2007
                       2002-06
Increased              Increase collection rate    Partial         Increased rate to 80% during 2004-05;
domestic bill          from 50 to 84% during                       reverted to 68% during 2007. Overall bill
collection rate        2002-07                                     collection with arrears is at 85% (2007)
Reduced network        Reduce losses from 31.8     Yes             Network losses in 2007 were 24.4%. Heat
heat losses            to 25.0%12 during 2002-                     losses in 2002 and 2003 were 116 and 112
                       07                                          GWh; these were reduced to 74 GWh
                                                                   (2007)
Decreased energy       Decrease from 14.9 to       Yes             In 2007, annual household energy
consumption            12.1 MWh/ y/household                       consumption was 9.9 MWh, representing a
                       in 2007                                     34% reduction in energy consumption at
                                                                   the household level
Demonstrated           Reduce particulate          On track; to be The ESP is not yet operational as the boiler
environmental          matter from 1600 to 100     met by end      # 5 has not yet been commissioned.
benefits               mg/m3 during 2002-07        2008 when the   However, the specification for the
                       for boiler #5               boiler will be  particulate emission from the ESP is 50
                                                   operational     mg/m3. Thus, this indicator will be met
                                                                   when boiler is operational


                       Reduce network water        Yes             Water losses were reduced to 212,000
                       losses by 30% from                          m3/year (2007), a reduction of 50%
                       400,000 m3 per year

                       Reduce carbon               Yes             TP has already met this target. It already
                       emissions by 186,000                        sold 157,000 tons to PCF (2004 to 2007)
                       tons during 2003-12                         and met its contractual obligations to PCF.
                                                                   TP sold an additional 40,091 tons to the
                                                                   Bank for the Bank to reduce its carbon
                                                                   footprint.



DESCRIPTION OF WORKS

In general, the rehabilitation works completed under the project were more than what was
planned, mainly because of competitive prices and in spite of the second tranche of
EBRD's loan in TS ( 15 million) not being released. A summary of the main
rehabilitation activities are presented below.




12The target was revised in 2005 from 22.0% to 25.0%



                                                      25

A. Network Rehabilitation:

The pipe rehabilitation component was a main project component and the project
exceeded targets under this component as described below:

(i)     Installation of pre-insulated pipes: a main project component aimed to replace
        worn out district heating pipes based on foam concrete technology, which was
        used in 1960s and 1970s and had most of the leakages and breakdowns. There is a
        total of about 920 km of district heating channels in Sofia and the plan was to
        replace about 60 km of the network under the whole project, and about 30 km
        under Bank loan financing. Under the Bank-financed project, about 54 km of old
        foam concrete district heating channels were replaced with pre-insulated pipes
        and a new transmission pipe of 2 km. was constructed. Under the whole project
        (Bank, EBRD, KIDSF Grant, and TS own funds) about 92 km of pipes were
        installed instead of the planned 60 km due to a lower-than-expected cost for pipes
        and installation works;
(ii)    New thermal insulation of over-ground pipelines: installed for about 16.5 km,
        which is higher than the planned amount of 15 km;
(iii)   Replacement of valves and compensators: about 2,200 valves and 1,300
        compensators were procured and installed in the district heating network; and
(iv)    Installation of variable flow pumping systems: installed at main heat sources and
        these were a main project component as it helped to reduce electricity
        consumption and supply of heat was adjusted based on demand. The Bank loan
        financed installation of variable flow pumping systems for three main heat
        sources; CHP Sofia, heating plants Liulin and Zemliane. Variable-flow pumping
        was also installed in two smaller heating plants and two booster pumping stations.
        In CHP Sofia East, pumping systems were replaced using KIDSF project
        financing. All heat sources in Sofia now have the modern district heating
        pumping systems that were planned during project preparation.

B. Substation Rehabilitation:

Rehabilitating heating substations located in basements of buildings with district heating
was another main project component. The plan was to rehabilitate about 8,030 out of the
15,000 heating substations in Sofia. The Bank loan was to be used to finance the
installation of 1,097 heating substations and EBRD/KIDSF would finance the rest (6,933
units). The Bank loan financed the rehabilitation of 1,097 substations as planned and the
EBRD/KIDSF financed 9,233 substations, more than originally planned.

C. Technical Assistance (TA)

The activities under the TA sub-components are presented below:

(i)     Incremental costs of PIU: this was financed by TS, as planned;
(ii)    Financial management system: this was financed by TS, as planned;
(iii)   Financial audits: this was financed by TS, as planned;




                                            26

(iv)   Consultancy services for private sector participation: this was supposed to be
       financed by the Bank (estimated cost of US$380,000).             However, this was
       eventually financed through an USAID grant and the cost was higher than
       estimated;
(v)    Design and supervision: this was financed by TS, as planned. In addition, TS was
       supported by an international consulting company ­ financed through EU Phare
       and KIDSF grants ­ on matters related to engineering, procurement, and
       supervision services for the whole project; and
(vi)   Consultancy services for public awareness campaign: this was to be financed by
       the Bank to promote energy savings. TS financed this fully as it was an ongoing
       campaign ­ the savings in household heat consumption were significant, as
       mentioned earlier.

D. Other

During project implementation, TS made extra efforts to improve its billing system in
line with its objective to increase the financial viability of the company. Although not in
the original procurement plan, the Bank and TS agreed to use loan funds to purchase
hardware for Toplofikacia's billing system, including computers and computer networks
between bill payment offices and the main office of Toplofikacia (cost of about
$ 700,000). While the Bank financed the hardware, TS financed the software (around
$ 200,000) needed for the system.

Pernik

A. Network Rehabilitation:

The network rehabilitation component included the following sub-components:

(i)    Installation of pre-insulated pipes: The Bank financed the procurement of 7 km of
       pipes which were installed with funds from TP and KIDSF. The plan was to
       rehabilitate 10 km of pipes and the remaining portion of the network will be
       financed through TP's own funds;
(ii)   Replacement of compensators: as planned, TP replaced all 226 old leaking
       compensators with bellow compensators; and
(iii)  Variable speed district heating pumps. The plan was to replace old, oversized, and
       inefficient pumps at the main heat source and the booster pumping station with
       modern and automated variable-speed pumps. This was realized as planned, both
       pumping stations now have modern variable-flow pumps in operation since 2004,
       reducing electricity consumption by about 50%.

B. Substation Rehabilitation:

The component included the assembly costs for 700 heating substations. All substations
with modern equipment, automation, and heat meters were installed as planned before the
2003-04 heating season. Installing heat substations enabled customers to regulate heat




                                             27

consumption and make full use of heat cost allocators and thermostatic radiator valves
installed in apartments.

C. Heat Source Improvements:

This sub-component included the following:

(i)     Replacement of ESP for Boiler # 5: as per plan, the ESP (financed by the Bank)
        was installed for Boiler # 5 which will reduce particulate emissions from about
        1,600 mg/m3 to about 50 mg/m3.          Although the ESP is installed, it is not
        operational as the boiler (financed by TP and KIDSF) is not yet functional;
(ii)    Improvement of automation and control system of coal conveyer: this component
        was financed by Toplofikacia's own funds (cost around $ 200,000) and not
        financed by the Bank as originally planned. In lieu of this financing, the Bank
        financed a coal crusher for boiler # 5 which is connected to the ESP, financed by
        the Bank.
(iii)   Rehabilitation of chemical water treatment plant: this water filtration system
        (cost: US$ 290,000) was not financed by the Bank, as planned, but financed by
        TP. In lieu of this financing, the Bank financed an adiabatic calorimeter to
        analyze lignite quality.

D. Technical Assistance:

There were no plans for the Bank to finance TA in the company. As planned, TP
completed the following TA: (i) public awareness campaign to highlight the plans of the
company to provide better service and the need to conserve energy; (ii) design and
supervision; (iii) annual financial audits; (iv) incremental operating costs of the PIU's;
and (v) project financial management system. In addition, TP was supported by EU
Phare and KIDSF grants to secure an international consultant that helped on matters of
engineering, procurement, and supervision services.

E. Other

At appraisal, TP had agreed to carry out the following tasks but these tasks were financed
by KIDSF which provided grant funds ( 10.4 million) to TP during project
implementation: installation works for the ESP; rehabilitation of the steam boiler # 5;
installation of DH pipelines; and installation of a power transformer.

RISKS

The table below shows the risks and mitigation measures identified in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) and a brief commentary on how the risks evolved during
implementation.




                                             28

   Risks and Mitigation Measures


      Risk          Risk
                   Rating            Mitigation Measures                       Comments
                                     Defined at Appraisal
Overall Risk        High      Overall project risk rating is high Government took upfront policy
Rating                        because it requires sustained       measures; TS and TP project
                              political will to reform the sector implementation was effective,
                              and raise tariffs. But Bulgaria's   helping the project meet its
                              overall reform agenda and energy    objectives, despite the high overall
                              sector reforms are on track;        risk rating. Also, the project was
                              income levels are expected to rise  implemented during Bulgaria's
                              and household energy                transition to EU membership,
                              consumption, to decline. DH         which helped support growth and
                              company management will be          rising household incomes that
                              encouraged to transform their       permitted tariff increases. Demand
                              performance based on conditions     Side Measures implemented during
                              outlined in the Financial           the project were maintained in line
                              Recovery Plan, and an adjusted      with energy conservation measures
                              Energy Benefit Program, which       in other EU member countries, and
                              will be in place each year. These   the Energy Benefit Program was in
                              factors will lower the project risk place throughout project duration to
                              rating                              provide assistance to the poor for
                                                                  heating services
Tariffs will be     High      Since income levels were linked     Outside the control of TS and TP,
unaffordable and              to general economic conditions,     tariff increases did not keep pace
social assistance             this risk was largely outside       with increasing fuel costs which
programs will be              project control. However, the       account for a large portion of
inadequate                    social assessment revealed that     operating costs for both companies.
                              district heating was affordable for Thus, while tariffs were not
                              most consumers and that the         unaffordable to most of the
                              Government had plans to             population, it affected the financial
                              continuously update the Energy      position of TS and TP. The Energy
                              Benefit Program to assist poor      Benefit Program was in place
                              people with DH services             throughout the project, albeit
                                                                  modified, to protect the vulnerable
                                                                  group by allowing them to receive
                                                                  DH services
Private sector    Substantial To avoid this risk, the Bank loan   This risk materialized. Both the
participation in              included a dated covenant           Bank and EBRD followed up
Sofia DH                      requiring Sofia DH company to       regularly with TS and shareholders
company                       complete the bidding process to     to introduce the private sector. The
for the provision             select a private operator by Dec.   selection process was in an
of heat may not               30, 2003                            advanced stage --management
be timely                                                         contract was prepared, bidders were
                                                                  pre-qualified, and a pre-bid meeting
                                                                  held--but the management
                                                                  contractor was not in place as
                                                                  planned. Now a higher form of
                                                                  privatization (concession or
                                                                  privatization) is being considered
Financial         Substantial FRPs prepared in consultation       The FRPs were generally followed,
recovery plans                with officials were realistic and   although there were limitations on
are not followed              had wide support from State and     the tariff increases TS and TP were
                              local authorities. Satisfactory     allowed to implement.



                                                 29

                             implementation of the FRPs was       Nevertheless, TS and TP have
                             a condition for the Bank loan        better financial position compared
                                                                  to the situation at appraisal and they
                                                                  have benefitted from the policy
                                                                  measures taken by the Government
                                                                  to revive the DH sector
Delays in policy  Modest     Without policy reform, project       The upfront policy reforms taken
reforms                      sustainability could falter so the   by Government and supported
                             project emphasized several           through the Bank's 3-year PAL
                             crucial steps for Government to      created an environment conducive
                             take under the Guarantee             to project success
                             Agreement and the Bank PAL
Delay in project Substantial This risk was mitigated through:     Mitigation measures were adequate:
implementation               (i) establishing a competent PIU     (i) the PIU comprised qualified
                             and training the staff; (ii)         staff who undertook training and
                             ensuring counterpart funds were      sought guidance from Bank
                             available at the beginning of each   procurement staff to rapidly
                             year; (iii) preparing all bidding    familiarize themselves with Bank
                             documents by end-2003; and (iv)      procurement procedures; (ii)
                             establishing a financial             counterpart funds were available as
                             management system that not only      both companies factored project
                             monitored project progress but       activities into their annual
                             also triggered corrective actions    investment program; (iii) bidding
                             when necessary                       documents were prepared on time
                                                                  because both PIUs were efficient
                                                                  and planned their activities; and (iv)
                                                                  the financial management system
                                                                  and auditing procedures identified
                                                                  areas for management attention in
                                                                  TS and TP, and corrective actions
                                                                  were taken
Fuel prices may   Modest     In Pernik, this risk was modest      Fuel prices did fluctuate more than
fluctuate                    since coal prices were expected      expected and the State Energy and
                             to remain stable. In Sofia, the risk Water Regulatory Commission
                             was classified as mid-range in       (SEWRC) did allow increases in
                             line with an Energy Environment      tariffs. However, these increases
                             Review (Bank report, 2001). The      were not adequate or timely which
                             risk would be best addressed by      led to financial difficulties for TS
                             promoting energy conservation        and TP. However, the decline in
                             and reducing heat losses through     household energy consumption was
                             project-proposed measures This       a positive trend as it reduced the
                             risk would also be addressed by      burden of the heating bill to the
                             financial covenants in the loan      consumer as tariff increased
                             that stipulate tariffs must be
                             increased to meet costs




                                                30

                    ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
                          (including assumptions in the analysis)

At appraisal, both economic and financial rates of return and net present values were
estimated. Using the same methodology, they were re-estimated at project completion
and are discussed below.

       Indicator                Sofia                            Pernik
                     Appraisal         Current         Appraisal         Current
       ERR             23.5%            49.0%           18.3%             25.3%
       ENPV       BGN 146 million  BGN 214 million  BGN 9.5 million  BGN 12 million
       FRR             18%               17%             11%              13%
       FNPV        BGN 65 million   BGN 53 million  BGN 0.5 million  BGN 3.5 million

Project Economic Analysis

The project includes rehabilitation of Sofia and Pernik district heating systems.
Concomitantly district heating customers had to equip their apartments with demand-side
energy efficiency measures--heat cost allocators and thermostatic radiator valves, which
supported the rehabilitation project and produced good economic results. Cost-benefit
was analyzed for the whole investment program, taking into account the World Bank,
EBRD, KIDSF grant, and Toplofikacia's own funds. The economic rate of return is
estimated to be 49.0% for Sofia and 25.3% for Pernik.

Net benefits were calculated after the project using the same principles and data
measurements as the project appraisal report.

(i)    Additional energy sold due to retention and reconnection of consumers through
       improvements supported under the project, which took into account reduced
       energy consumption due to demand side management;
(ii)   Savings on substitution costs assumed that consumers who were disconnected
       from the district heating system would use electricity with a tariff of 80
       BGN/MWh. A conservative estimate of 7.5 MWh/year/household of substitute
       energy consumption was assumed, which is lower than district heating
       consumption (TS ­ 9.1 MWh/household; and TP ­ 9.9 MWh/household); and
(iii)  Savings in operational costs which comprise: savings in pumping costs which
       reduced to 90% of pre-project levels in Sofia and to 40% in Pernik; savings due to
       reduction of water losses which reduced to 75% from pre-project levels in Sofia
       and 50% in Pernik; reduction in operations and maintenance (O&M) costs due to
       less breakdown of pipes; and savings in fuel consumption due to reduction of heat
       losses and household energy consumption.

Project Financial Analysis

The financial rate of return (FRR) and financial net present value (FNPV) have been re-
estimated by adjusting costs and benefits under the economic analysis to include only
those effects that have a direct financial impact (cost or benefit) for the two companies.



                                            31

Thus, as compared to the ERR and economic net present value (ENPV), taxes (excluding
VAT) and duties have been included where applicable; and for fuel costs, the actual
financial prices paid by TS and TP for gas and coal, respectively, have been utilized.

For TS, the re-estimated FRR is 17%, close to the PAD estimate of 18%. For Pernik, the
re-estimated FRR is 13%, slightly higher than the PAD estimate of 11%. The higher FRR
is due mainly to greater cost savings on coal expenditures, since coal prices were higher
than projected.

Financial Viability of TS and TP

Prior to 2002, the two DH companies faced serious financial problems as a result of low
heat and electricity tariffs, lower than potential operating efficiency due to deteriorating
facilities and equipment, and low revenue collection rates, which increased net financial
losses, and accumulated arrears to fuel suppliers. These financial problems were a drain
on the State budget, which provided large operating subsidies to DH companies. As part
of project preparation, Financial Recovery Plans (FRP) were prepared for TS and TP
which were approved by Government. The FRPs, which covered 2002-06, included
obligatory targets for operational and financial performance for both companies. The
FRPs provided for operating subsidies to be phased out by 2005, and the two DH
companies prepared detailed annual business plans that specified operational and
financial targets and analyzed expected revenues and expenditures, including tariff levels
required for heat and electricity. The FRPs and business plans provided a good basis for
monitoring progress in performance during project supervision. Selected indicators for
financial performance of the two DH companies are given below.

The key financial viability indicators that were adopted in the PAD for each DH company
were based on their FRPs. These indicators and the financial performance of the DH
companies are shown in the following table.

           Indicators                  Toplofikacia Sofia           Toplofikacia Pernik
                                Year FRP/PAD         Achievement    FRP/PAD Achievement
Positive fiscal impact           2005    Phase out      Phase out   Phase out    Phase out
                                         operating      operating    operating   operating
                                         subsidy         subsidy     subsidy      subsidy
Improvement in working ratio     2002      1.14           1.14         1.22         1.22
                                 2003      0.98           1.00         1.11         1.09
                                 2004      0.96           0.93         1.01         1.02
                                 2005      0.91           0.91         0.93         1.12
                                 2006      0.88           1.08         0.89         0.97
                                 2007      0.88           1.14         0.89         1.15
Percentage increase in domestic  2002       80             80          50           50
collection rate (including       2003                      87                       55
collection of arrears)           2004                      90                       83
                                 2005                      87                       80
                                 2006                      80                        _
                                 2007       85             79          84           68




                                             32

Positive fiscal impact: Operating subsidies were phased out both in TS and TP, as
planned in 2005. Fiscal impact, measured by net fiscal transfers from Government
budget, was positive for both companies, although amounts are now estimated to be
lower than projected [Plan ­ BGN 91 million in TS, and BGN 10 million in TP; Actual ­
BGN 60 million in TS, and BGN 5 million in TP]. The shortfall is due mainly to lower-
than-projected net contributions (sales receipts minus purchase refunds) from VAT since
sales revenues were lower due to lower-than-projected heat and sales tariffs (which were
subject to regulatory approval); and purchase expenses were higher due to higher
investment costs and higher fuel purchase prices (natural gas and coal).

Improvement in the working ratio: As can be seen in the attached tables, working ratios
improved from 2003 to 2005, but declined thereafter. The tariffs increased but were
inadequate to compensate for the steep increase in fuel prices (natural gas and coal).
Relative movements in tariffs and fuel prices since 2002 can be seen in the table below.
For the two companies, the overall financial performance improved during 2003-05.
However, after 2005, the sharp rise in fuel prices was not matched by increases in heat
and electricity tariffs. Gas and fuel expenses ranged from 65 to 71% of TS' total expenses,
and coal and fuel expenses ranged from 58 to 67% of TP's total expenses. Given that
such a large portion of the operational cost is for fuel, TS and TP faced financial
difficulties as adjustments in tariffs did not keep pace with increases in fuel prices.

           Parameters                          Unit          2002 2003 2004                  2005 2006 2007
                                                Sofia DH company
 Average heat tariff                       BGN/MWh             41.3      42.9       47.2     51.4      59.6       60.4
 Annual % increase                               %                        3.9        10       8.9        16        1.3
 Average electricity tariff                BGN/MWh             76.0      80.0       80.0     80.0       82.0      95.0
 Annual % increase                               %                        5.3         0        0         2.5      15.8
 Natural gas purchase price                BGN/000 m3          243       235        223       245       302       325
 Annual % increase                               %                       (3.2)     (5.1%)     9.9      23.3        7.6
 % share of gas and fuel expenses                %             65.6      70.7       63.8     65.2      70.7       69.3
 in total expenses
 Annual net profit/loss                    BGN million        -55.2       3.7       76.1      2.6      -10.5      -27.8
                                               Pernik DH company
 Average heat tariff                       BGN/MWh             42.3      42.9       45.3     46.7      55.2       56.2
 Annual % increase                               %                        1.4        5.6      3.1       18.2       1.8
 Average electricity tariff                BGN/MWh             63.8      69.7       68.2     67.6       69.0      79.3
 Annual % increase                                                        9.2       (2.2)    (0.9)       2        14.9
 Coal purchase price                         BGN/tce           72.4      75.0       70.0     73.5       80.0      88.7
 Annual % increase                               %                        3.6       (6.7)      5        8.8       10.9
 % share of coal and fuel expenses               %             66.9       60        65.2     61.8      61.6       57.7
 in total expenses
 Annual net profit loss                    BGN million         -1.1       0.6        1.4      -1.5       0.2      -2.5
 Note: For TS, the exceptionally high net profit of BGN 76.1 million in 2004 includes accounting adjustments of
 about BGN 70 million due to reclassification of doubtful receivables that did not, however, contribute to cash flow.


Increase in domestic collection rates: Both companies sell heat and electricity. However,
the relative proportions of revenues differ significantly. For TS, heat contributes to about
75% of the total revenues and the remaining revenues are derived from electricity sales.
For TP, heat and electricity account for about 40% and 60% of the revenues, respectively.



                                                         33

Electricity is sold to the national grid and all invoiced amounts are collected. Heat is sold
to residential and non-residential consumers, but collections have been more problematic,
particularly for residential consumers. Domestic collection performance for the two TS
has been summarized in the table. Although the domestic heat collection was lower than
expected, the overall collection in both companies was higher (TS ­ 86% and TP ­ 85%)
at project closing due to the sale of electricity.




                                               34

 ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES

(a) Task Team members


            Names                          Title                   Unit        Responsibility/
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Adelina Boyanova Dotzinska Program Assistant                     ECCBG Program Assistant
Blaga Djourdjin            Procurement Analyst                    ECSPS Procurement Specialist

Bogdan Constantinescu      Sr. Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS   Financial Management
                                                                          Specialist
Bonita Brindley            Consultant                            ECSSD ICR Editor
Doncho Petrov Barbalov     Operations Officer                    ECSSD Operations Officer

Evgeny Evgeniev            Extended Term Consultant               ECSPF   Private Sector
                                                                          Development Specialist
Hana Huzjak                Operations Analyst                    ECSSD Operations Analyst
Kishore Nadkarni           Consultant, Financial Analyst         ECSSD Financial Specialist
Marina Lysiakova           Language Program Assistant            ECSSD Program Assistant

Mirela Mart                Consultant, Financial Management       ECSPS   Financial Management
                                                                          Specialist
Orlin M. Dikov             Operations Officer                    ECSSD Operations Officer
Pekka Kalevi Salminen      Sr. Energy Spec.                      ECSSD Technical Specialist
Poonam Rohatgi             Program Assistant                     SASDO Program Assistant
Sati Achath                Consultant (ICR)                      ECSSD ICR Consultant

Sudipto Sarkar             Lead Specialist                       ECSSD/
                                                                 EASUR    Task Team Leader

Yukari Tsuchiya            Program Assistant                     ECSSD Program Assistant

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle
                                         No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including travel
                                                                       and consultant costs)

  Lending
  FY94                                                                       14.90
  FY95                                                                       38.01
  FY96                                                                       42.24
  FY97                                                                       32.47
  FY98                                                                       11.46
  FY99                                                                       62.68
  FY00                                           60                          85.32
  FY01                                           11                           6.88
  FY02                                           28                         109.78
  FY03                                           42                          96.51
  FY04                                            2                           0.95
  FY05                                                                        0.00
  FY06                                                                        0.00



                                             35

                                   Total:                  143                                   501.2013
Supervision/ICR
   FY94                                                                                            0.00
   FY95                                                                                            0.00
   FY96                                                                                            0.00
   FY97                                                                                            0.00
   FY98                                                                                            2.79
   FY99                                                                                            0.00
   FY00                                                                                            0.00
   FY01                                                                                            0.00
   FY02                                                                                            0.00
   FY03                                                        1                                   1.74
   FY04                                                      40                                   90.33
   FY05                                                      40                                   97.84
   FY06                                                      36                                   93.36
   FY07                                                      26                                  100.09
   FY08                                                      15                                   75.18
   FY07                                                                                            0.00
   FY08                                                                                            0.00

                                   Total:                  158                                   461.33




13The preparation was suspended in FY00 and the resources used in FY01 were mainly to support the policy measures
to be undertaken by the Government. The funds used in FY02 and FY03 should be attributed to the preparation of this
revised project. The team composition of the revised project (including the TTL) was largely different compared to the
original team.




                                                         36

                         ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

The National Center for Study of Public Opinion launched three survey campaigns in
Sofia (2002, 2004, 2005) and two in Pernik (2002, 2004) to study consumer satisfaction
with services offered by TS and TP. Key findings are summarized below.


QUALITY OF SERVICE

In Sofia and Pernik, throughout the years, DH has scored very high (91% in TS and TP)
on being a safe form of heating. Perceptions of the population are summarized below
based on the question "In your opinion, the central heating provided by Toplofikacia in
your home is..."). In terms of whether the heat the provided was adequate, there was an
improvement in TS where 65% (2005) of consumers said that their homes were
sufficiently warm, compared to 42% in 2002. In TP, the level of satisfaction regarding
the adequacy of heat did not change very much ­ 39% (2002) to 43% (2004).


A large majority of subscribers, in both Sofia and Pernik prefer DH to all other sources of
heating. For instance, the share of those in Sofia that prefer DH has increased from 70%
in 2002, reaching 80% in 2004, and 75% in 2005. In Pernik, in 2002, 80% of subscribers
said that they would prefer DH and in 2004, this percentage remained high at 70%.


                                         Toplofikacia Sofia %               Toplofikacia Pernik %
                                  2002            2004           2005           2002        2004
 The safest                         86             95             91             80         91
 The cheapest                       30             49             48             42         45
 The cleanest                       57             64             62             76         66
 The most popular                   49             49             50             67         52
 The most effective                 48             64             58             60         52
        Source: National Center for the Study of Public Opinion (2002-2005).

The increase in the number of household connections during the project is an indicator
about the increased level of satisfaction with the services. The increase is shown in the
table below. The 2004 Sofia survey also reported that the use of private Heat Accounting
Companies (HACs) to measure heat consumption was successful and only 2.5% of
respondents reported that they did not have home devices for heat measurement.
Similarly, in Pernik heat accounting was completed by 2004, and only about 2% of
respondents had not installed devices for measuring and accounting for home heating
energy. In the 2004 Pernik survey, however, the respondents were not satisfied with the
HACs.

                                       Increase in Connections
        Year                  Toplofikacia Sofia                   Toplofikacia Pernik
                      Total number      Connection rate*    Total number    Connection rate
                      of Connections                        of Connections
        2002             299,012              85%               12,410            63%
        2007             362,578              96%               16,768            85%
        * Total number of connections divided by total number of households



                                                  37

Finally, in the 2005 survey, 76% of subscribers interviewed said they would not cancel
their subscription to TS services, higher than the 69% in 2002, but lower than 82% of the
2004 survey. Similarly, during the 2004 survey a high percentage of Pernik subscribers
(70%) said they would not discontinue the service from TP.

About 70 % of the Sofia subscribers reported that they have been informed about the
network rehabilitation program, activities supported under the project. About 54% of
those informed, believe that this modernization program will improve the quality of
services and 30 % believe that it will contribute to decreasing heating costs. In TP, 83%
of the respondents (2004 survey) were aware of the network rehabilitation program.

COST OF SERVICE

Price is an important factor that shapes consumer's assumptions on the choice of DH
services and the table below indicates the ability to pay for the services. The surveys
showed that about 49% (2005) and 83% (2004) of consumers in Sofia and Pernik,
respectively, would not be able to pay heat bills more than BGN 60. More respondents in
Pernik were benefitting from the Energy Benefit Program and this may explain why a
greater percentage of the population was able to pay for heat bills less than BGN 60,
compared to the population in Sofia. The inability to pay bills on time was also revealed
in the survey when 14% (2005) and 38% (2004) of the respondents in Sofia and Pernik,
respectively, mentioned that they had overdue payments to the DH companies.

              What is the maximum (in BGN) you can spend for winter heating?

  Payment range                            Sofia                                Pernik
     (in BGN)                               %                                    %
                          2002             2004            2005            2002        2004
       0-30                27               12              14              30         35
       31-60               37               37              35              45         48
       61-90               15               19              18              12          9
      90-120               16               24              24              9           7
     Over 120               5                 8              9              4           1
        Source: National Center for the Study of Public Opinion (2002-2005).

The DSM measures introduced during the project which reduced household energy
consumption played a significant role in sustaining the DH services. At appraisal, the
average household income was compared to district heating costs, and this ICR takes a
similar approach. Even though tariffs increased, the average annual household cost for
district heating decreased, in percentage terms, in both Sofia and Pernik. This was due to
the rising incomes and declining energy consumption (see table below). In Sofia, the
percentage of average income spent on heat (based on average consumption) dropped
from 12.3% to 7.3%. In Pernik, the drop was similar from 14.3% to 8.6%.




                                                  38

                      Declining Cost of Heat as Percentage of Household Income
Year   Average Household                 Average Household Average Heat Tariff   Percentage of
          Income (BGN)*                   Heat Consumption   including VAT      Average Income
                                               (MWh)          (BGN/MWh)          Spent on Heat

         Sofia          Pernik             Sofia    Pernik  Sofia      Pernik   Sofia     Pernik
2002     5137            5319              12.7      15     49.56      50.76    12.3      14.3
2003     5521            5107              11.6     11.3    51.48      51.48    10.8      11.4
2004     6366            5546              10.2     10.2    56.64      54.36    9.1       10.0
2005     7549            5893              10.4     10.9    61.68      56.04    8.5       10.4
2006     7242            6370              10.1      9.9    69.24      66.24    9.7       10.3
2007     9099            7747               9.1      9.9    72.60      67.44    7.3        8.6
   * Source: National Statistical Institution




                                                       39

             ANNEX 6. STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS


Not applicable




                                   40

    ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

Comments from Ministry of Economy and Energy (MEE), TS, and TP are presented
below.

MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND ENERGY

A representative of Ministry of Economy and Energy conveyed this message through an
E-mail dated December 2, 2008:

"The Rehabilitation of the Heat Conveyance Networks in Sofia and Pernik Project is one
of the technical activities within the Central Heating Companies Restructuring Plan,
which was developed and adopted in 2000.

The technological upgrading of the central heating network is yielding its expected
positive results and proves that the rehabilitation is the cheapest option for improving the
efficiency and the quality of operation.

The elimination of the main disadvantages of the obsolete heating energy conveyance
systems - high losses, lack of flexibility and low quality of the services - is being
achieved by means of significantly lower investment costs; it allows the limitation of
costs at an acceptable level for a sufficiently long period of time until the state of the
economy and the prosperity of the consumers justify larger investment outlays."

TOPLOFIKACIA SOFIA

Through a letter dated December 4, 2008, Toplofikacia Sofia provided the following
comments.

"(i) Assessment of the operation's objective, design, implementation and operational
experience;

The Project objectives were to: (i) improve the quality of the provided services; (ii)
improve the company financial viability; and (iii) increase environmentally friendly
operations through energy conservation and pollution reduction measures.

Their importance for Toplofikacia Sofia AD (TS) and Bulgaria is proved by the
participation in the project financing of several financing institutions. District heating is
an essential service in Sofia. TS considers the Sofia district heating rehabilitation Project
as very needed, well designed and important operation for the whole country, Sofia city
and the company.




                                             41

(ii) Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives;

The implementation of the Toplofikacia Sofia District Heating Project has been assessed
as exceptionally successful for the company. Major achievements have been made in
respect of all three objectives. We would like to stress the following major achievements:

Improvement of the quality of the provided services. The growth of TS residential
customers during the time of Project implementation was 9%. The Project' contribution to
this growth are the new automated DH substations, which allow to improve the service
quality by providing the possibility of supplying the exactly desired quantity of heat and
decreasing of the heat losses and electric power costs, resulting in lower energy costs for
consumers.

Improvement of the company financial viability. The major indicators met are as
follows:
        a.      Ceasing the state operating subsidies to TS since 2005.
        b.      Improvement of the working ratio. With the present regulations, the
                company has limited resources to influence this indicator. The Project
                contributed to minimize the losses due to reduced electricity costs,
                reduced heat losses and reduced consumption of heat from the customers'
                side However, fuel cost forms the major cost item in overall production
                costs. The tariff regulation as implemented since 2005 prescribes
                regulation of both fuel and energy prices. The tariff regulation is not fully
                based on cost bases, but often considers social impacts of the heat price
                increases. Further, as the natural gas price is regulated on quarterly bases,
                whereas heat price is regulated on yearly bases, the heat price increases
                lag much behind fuel price increases. As a consequence of this regulatory
                framework the heat price has not been able to cover production costs, even
                after implementing the cost saving actions by the company.
        c.      Improvement of collection ratio. Events in 2006, related to the company's
                former manager harshly influenced the consumer's attitude with regards to
                paying their bills to the company. The efforts made by to increase the
                collection still have not yet given the desired result. To support these
                efforts, there must be implemented changes in the regulatory acts in view
                of equal rights and respect in the relations service provider-customer. At
                the same time the company is aware of the necessity of wide public
                awareness campaign among the customers to help them understand the
                way of formation of the bills, content of the invoices, heat accounting etc.

Increase of environmentally friendly operations through energy conservation and
pollution reduction measures. The Project has achieved significant improvements:

        d.      Reduction of heat losses and water losses in the system as a result of
                pipeline improvements and replacements and replacement of the old DH
                substations with new ones.




                                             42

       e.      Reduction of consumed electricity resulting from implementation of
               frequency converters for the network pumps and installation of the new
               DH substations.
       f.      Reduction of carbon emissions. The projected amount of reduced carbon
               oxide emissions for the period from 2003 to 2012 TS managed to achieve
               for the period 2003 - 2008.


(iii) Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation and
implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may
be helpful in the future;

The Project was financed by different financing institutions, each one with its own rules
and conditions and Project components, which required good management for a
successful implementation.

The PIU established in TS for the purposes of the Project succeeded in organizing and
managing the Project to ensure its implementation within the planned time period,
planned budget, planned volumes keeping the provisions set forth in the agreements.

The PIU was formed from the employees of TS, who together with their main obligations
worked on the Project implementation. For working in the PIU additional knowledge and
skills were required. They were learnt in progress of the work with the active assistance
of the consultant under the Project the Finnish company Poyry Energy Oy. The PIU was
only the governing body, which for every particular task and different components
worked with the other employees of the company.

As a result significant experience was gained in procurement of goods and works through
international biddings and management of contracts with foreign contractors. Using
company employees for the management of the Project has its positive effect as well after
completion of the Project -- TS has at its disposal an experienced team for managing
contracts, which is able to participate in the performance of the regular investment
programs.

During the Project implementation totally 36 international competitive biddings and one
national competitive bid were carried out and 88 contracts were implemented. The
management of the company and PIU made all the relevant efforts and all contract were
completed successfully. The company managed to achieve significant progress in
achieving of the objectives of the Project, which were within the management control and
authority. Non-reaching of particular indicators related to the financial stability of the
company to their greater extend were beyond the control of the company.

(iv) Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any cofinanciers, or of other
partners during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including the
effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned;




                                            43

During Project implementation TS had useful cooperation with the World Bank. All
project documents were timely reviewed and approved. Any encountered problems were
constructively discussed and timely solved. The terms of Project implementation were
followed due to this successful cooperation. TS highly appreciates the flexibility and the
responsiveness of the Bank during Project implementation while solving all the aroused
problems.

The co-operation of TS was successfully also with the other Project co-financiers.

(v) Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project.

Taking into consideration the overall condition of the DH network, we should note that
the Project proved not only its expedience with the implementation of Project
arrangements but as well the necessity of these arrangements to be continued in the time.
The results achieved for the DH system with the automated substations and the network
pump frequency converters allowing heat supply quantity and quality regulation could be
even more effective when all of the substations become automated. The network losses
can be lowered drastically only with replacement of at least 20 km pipelines every year.
In the course of the Project pipelines installed in concrete channels were replaced but still
major part of the network, with total length is 920 km, are pipelines laid in channels and
30 years of age. The network aging is quicker than company's financial possibilities for
rehabilitation, based on the present tariff setting. Overturn of this tendency could be made
with a considerable financial resource which the company does not have now after
completion of the Project."

TOPLOFIKACIA PERNIK

Though a signed statement, sent via E-mail on December 12, 2008, Toplofikacia Pernik
had the following comments:

(i)     "Assessment of the operation's objective, design, implementation and
operational experience

The objectives of the operation were to improve quality of the DH service, increase
environmentally friendly operations and improve financial viability of Toplofikacia
Pernik EAD (TP). There objectives as well as the operations design are considered by
TP adequate to the actual situation. The objectives and design are based on the master
plan, carried out prior to the operation start.

(ii)    Assessment of the outcome of the operation against the agreed objectives

TP estimates that the operation has been carried out successfully and that the
objectives have been achieved. This can be concluded based on the data on the
results of the operation as provided in the present ICR: increase of the connection
rate, decrease of the specific energy consumption, reduction of the network losses
and achieved environmental benefits. In relation to the financial performance the
objectives were achieved partly. So, operational subsidies were phased out from



                                              44

heating season 2004/05, but some of the financial targets like improvement of the
working ratio and collections were not achieved in full extent. This was strongly
influenced by some reasons, which arc outside of TP control, namely: a) tariff setting
by SWERC, which does not always follow fuel and other outside cost increases; b)
legislation, which makes it impossible to disconnect consumers, who do not pay for
heat; c) lacking of legislation of household owners associations; and d) many
problems in the inefficient work of the heat allocator companies. It shall be stressed
however, that despite the financial targets were not fully met, both collections rate
and working ratio were improved during the course of the operation.

(iii)    Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation
and implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that
may be helpful in the future;

The procurement was carried out according to the operation's plans. TP together with the
consultant Ptiyry Energy managed to carry out the procurement according to the
procurement plan arid without any delays.

Management of the project was carried out by the Pill established in the company
based on TP's existing and experienced staff. We consider that PIU inside the company
is one of the preconditions of efficient and timely procurement.

In order to achieve the financial targets, TP carried out several actions to improve the
financial efficiency. These measures include: a) numerous court cases against the
debtors, (for instance, totally 10.400 court eases have started up to 2008); b) sales of
the had debts; c) arrangement of few campaigns of "no penalty heat overdue payments"
(during Xmas etc). These actions have had a positive impact on the financial position
of TP. The company has also achieved savings in the everyday operations and has sold
several old and unused physical assets. However, the control over energy tariff
regulation is outside of company's control, and the tariff limitations, which did not fully
follow the coal price increases had negative outside influence on the financial
performance. Unemployment levels in Pernik are high and incomes of some population
groups are low. However, DH business shall not be considered as asocial support
program and the support to low income DH consumers shall be addressed by separate
means and not through DH tariff.

(iv)     Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any cofinanciers, or of other
partners during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including
the effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned
The project was financed by several donors. The co-operation with the donors during the
operation course was very efficient. Another major partner in the implementation was an
outside consultant Poyry Energy, who efficiently co-operated with TP as well as with
the project.

Ministry of Energy and Economy (MEE) as the provider of the Guarantee Agreement of
the operation has committed to assure the fair energy tariff setting for IT. The Bank
has influenced the MEE during thc course of the operations to assure fair tariff setting.



                                             45

(v) Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the
project.

There is an continuing need to increase the efficiency of DH system in Pernik. It refers
especially for the need of the pipeline rehabilitation. The company has signed the
Privatization Memorandum in fall of 2008 and the privatization is expected to be carried
out in 1-2 years. It is assumed that combining of the TP's experience from the project
with the financing available from the potential investor will allow further
improvement of the DH system in Pernik."




                                          46

  ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF CO-FINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS

Comments from EBRD, through an E-mail dated December 16, 2008 follow:

"The rehabilitation of parts of the transmission and distribution network of Sofia District
Heating Company, financed through the EBRD loan, helped improve district heating
services and reduce energy losses. According to the company's reports, heat consumption
in buildings with new substations has reduced by 20%. Heat losses in new pipes are
estimated to be 3-4 times lower, and in new substations - 9 times lower.

The EBRD loan was divided in two equal tranches of EUR 15 m. Only the first tranche
was disbursed while the availability date of the loan expired on 15-Jan-2007. The reason
for non-disbursing the second tranche was a condition in the loan agreement which
required the Company to enter into a Management Contract. This was not implemented
due to disagreements among the shareholders of the company. While the loan availability
date can be retroactively extended this is subject to progress with the privatization of the
company.

Procurement of all contracts under the Tranche 1 of the loan was successful and the work
was completed by the end of 2006. It included supply and installation of pre-insulated
pipes and District Heating substations.

In addition to the loan the Bank administered grants from the Kozloduy International
Decommissioning Support Fund ("KIDS Fund") supporting investments program of
Sofia District Heating Company. The first grant component of EUR 20m was approved at
KIDSF Assembly in 2002. Second grant was EUR 10 m was approved in 2004.

Support from the KIDS fund was provided also for Pernik District Heating Company. A
EUR 10.4 m grant is being used for the rehabilitation of steam generator No 5, the
installation of electrostatic precipitator to this steam generator and rehabilitation of 8 km
heating pipes in Pernik. The renewed steam generator which is expected to become
operational in early 2009 will allow to make full use of the electrostatic precipitator
delivered under the WB loan."




                                               47

               ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

· Government's District Heating Strategy (June 2000)
· Project Appraisal Document (May 2003)
· 10 Implementation Status and Results Reports (ranging from June 2003 to June
  2008)
· Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
· Annual audits of the financial statements of the Project and the entities of TS and
  TP




                                      48

