Document of
} jL E  g0P V                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2334-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR A
SEVENTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
May 26, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 15, 1978)
Rs 1           =  Paise 100
US$1.00        =  Rs 8.51
Rs 1.00         =  US$0.1175
Rs 1 million   =  US$117,500
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$l to Rs 8.60, which
represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
DEL   -  Direct Exchange Line
GOI   -  Government of India
HCL   -  Hindustan Cables Limited
HTL   -  Hindustan Teleprinters Limited
ITI   -  Indian Telephone Industries Limited
OCS   -  Overseas Communications Service
OYT   -  Own Your Telephone
PCO   -  Public Call Office
P&T   -  Posts and Telegraphs Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SEVENTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:         Posts and Telegraphs Department (P&T);
Indian Telephone Industries Ltd. (ITI);
Hindustan Cable Ltd. (HCL); and
Hindustan Teleprinters Ltd. (HTL).
Amount:                US$120 million
Terms:                 20 years including three years of grace with
interest at 7.5% p.a..
Relending Terms:       For P&T sub-project:  Government of India (GOI)
would channel the proceeds as GOI's capital-at-
charge to P&T, in accordance with its standard
arrangements for financing telecommunications
development. P&T pays a dividend on the total
capital-at-charge at a rate determined by GOI,
currently 6% per annum.
For Factories sub-projects: India to ITI, HCL,
and HiTL: at an interest rate of not less than
10.25% per annum, minimum, over fifteen years
including three years grace.
GOI to carry exchange risks.
Project
Description:           The project comprises four subprojects.  The main
sub-project is a priority component of the P&T Tele-
commuanication Branch's investment program for three
years (April 1, 1978 to March 31, 1981). It will
result in a significant extension of the present tele-
commanications network into rural areas of India with
the provision of an additional 7,500 rural Public Call
Offices (PCOs), and 260,000 new direct exchange lines
(DELs) the majority of which will be in the rural
areas. It includes the expansion of the trunk and
telex networks and imported equipment for the Telecom-
munications Research Center and the Training and
Technical and Development Circles. The three other
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
subprojects are concerned with upgrading and modernizing
the production facilities of the three major government-
owned telecommunications equipment manufacturers, Indian
Telephone Industries Ltd. (ITI), Hindustan Cables Ltd.
(HCL) and Hindustan Teleprinters Ltd. (HTL). They
comprise provision of replacement machinery in the
production and tool-making units and addition of modern
testing and measuring equipment to replace and supplement
obsolete and inadequate existing equipment. There are
no special risks.
Estimated Cost:                                                   US$ million
Subprojects                       Foreign  Local   Total
P&T                                95.1    553.9    649.0
ITI                                 8.4     11.0      19.4
HCL                                 9.0      7.6      16.6
HTL                                 2.0      1.5       3.5
Sub-total                     114.5    574.0    688.5
Contingencies                      18.4    111.6    130.0
Total                         132.9    685.6    818.5
Financing Plan:                                                   US$ million
Local   Foreign   Total
Bank                                 -       120        120
P&T                                662        10        672
ITI                                  13       -          13
HCL                                   9        3         12
HTL                                   2       -           2
Total                         686       133        819
Estimated                                                        $ Millions
Disbursements:                                             1979   1980   1981
Bank FY
Annual                              54      42      24
Cumulative                          54      96    120
Rate of Return:        20%
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 2030a-IN, dated May 26, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA FiDR A SEVENTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India of an amount equivalent to US$120 million to help finance a seventh
telecommunications project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
3 years grace, with interest at 7.50% per annum. The proceeds of the loan
would be channeled in two ways. The bulk of the loan amount (US$100 million)
would be channeled to the Posts and Telegraphs (P&T) Department as part of
GOI's capital-at-charge, in accordance with the Government of India's (GOI's)
standard arrangements for financing telecommunications development. P&T pays
a dividend on total capital-at-charge at a rate fixed by GOI, currently at 6%
per annum. The balance (US$20 million) would be relent to the public sector
companies participating in the Project, at interest no less than 10.25% per
annum for 15 years including three years grace. The exchange risk would be
borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas their productivity
is low. Agriculture's shaLre in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in theb case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys many
of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development. Although
literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well trained
1/   Parts I and II of this report are identical to the corresponding parts
in the President's Report (No. P-2149-IN) on the Second National Seed
Project, dated May 17, 1978.



- 2 -
administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entrepreneural
class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by international
comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is relatively well-
placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very large reserves of
coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric potential. Recent
petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited and prospects are
bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the infrastructure
needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute terms the
irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are each among
the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed, world. However,
considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly from state to state.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 200
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exists. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950's; life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940's to 45-50 years in the 1970's; school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children in primary school ages and from 5% to 29% of children in
secondary school ages since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950's to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.
In the late 1960's and early 1970's, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An



adverse shift in terms of trade starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround ocurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction in the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production in iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports. The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have been on average of 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared
with 1.3 million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved
extension system, which has been getting heartening results, has been intro-
duced in several states and is slated for further coverage.



-4-
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent rabi crop expectations, price stability
and good prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange.
The circumstances present a great opportunity for further promoting the devel-
opment of the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed
though not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this
challenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall investment
and public plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7% per
annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum during
the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development towards improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step towards complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
of construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--have been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978-79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.



- 5 -
15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 19'9's. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension to more states and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several states in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid 1960's--large
unutilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and
low productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one
of the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries,
which make up a significant portion of the sector. Low buoyancy of demand
for industrial products from all sources--not only from investments but also
from agriculture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint.
Further import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufac-
tured goods in the future because most opportunities for efficient import
substitution have been exploited. Higher effective demand from increased
growth of real incomes froim greater productivity in both agriculture and
manufacturing, sustained increases in exports and increased investment,
particularly from the public sector, all can raise demand for industrial
production.
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing, and, within the small scale sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to



- 6 -
the small scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality will not fall as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 thousand to the end of the century,
implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best guess" pro-
jection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many of the
benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the
century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier change
in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow more
slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the primary
and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will continue to
grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990's, result-
ing in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force from
40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The government's goal to eliminate unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development in the next few years. With good medium-
term prospects for India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in
invisible receipts and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments,



the net availability of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is
projected to rise over the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7
billion in 1977/78 to US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum.
Given the unlikely need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally
important items -- e.g., petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and
cotton -- other imports can increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next
five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth to below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of
GDP from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income growth, the present
situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will be
sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will be
necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort will
be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks in
pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs of
its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 53 loans and 97 development
credits to India totalling US$2,013 million and US$4,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$890 million has been
repaid, and US$2,120 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1978,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since 1957, IFC hbas made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$14.5 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$29.4 million, US$22.9 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



- 8 -
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrig-ation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium and small scale industry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank



- 9 -
lending. As of March 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,159
million, of which US$594 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$565 million.
29.       Of thc external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt: was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1976/77, about 14% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background
30.       While India has a comparatively large telecommunications network
by world standards, with more than 1.7 million direct exchange lines (DELs)
and more than two million telephones, the quantity and quality of telephone
and telex services is poor compared to many other countries. India's tele-
phone density (number of telephones per 100 population) of 0.3 is low compared
with Malaysia - 2.7; Papua New Guinea - 1.3; Philippines - 1.2; Thailand -
0.8; and Sri Lanka - 0.5. The average for Asia, excluding Japan, is 0.6 while
the world average is 9.6. The telephone density in the major cities of India
is also low compared with principal cities in other countries. Densities vary
from about 2 for cities such as Hyderabad, Calcutta and Lucknow, to close to
4 for Delhi and Bombay. This compares with telephone densities of 4.6 for
Bangkok; 7.7 for Manila; 8.2 for Tehran; 10.8 for Nairobi; and 16.3 for
Singapore.
31.       The present official waiting list for telephone service in India is
about 200,000 of which about 124,000 are in the four major cities. Prospective
subscribers normally wait for many years. Moreover, many rural areas and towns
are without service, and thus have no officially recorded waiting list. There
is consequently a large level of suppressed or hidden demand.
32.       Away from the larger towns, the telephone service is provided by a
network of long distance public call offices (PCOs) which comprise a single
open wire line with a telephone connecting the town or village to the national
telephone network. As demand in a rural town grows, a small telephone exchange
is installed at the PCO and the original line used as a trunk circuit to the
network. In April 1978, there were about 8,000 PCOs and 4,300 small (less
than 100 lines) telephone exchanges. Of the 8,000 PCOs, over 7,000 were
located in places with a population exceeding 5,000. Of the 45,000 towns
with a population exceeding 2,000, only one-third have telephone facilities
either in the form of a long distance PCO or telephone exchange.



- 10 -
33.       Due to the significant shortage of telephone lines and network over-
loading, the calling rates in most large cities in India are very high and the
probability of making a successful call is relatively low. For example, in
Bombay, Delhi and Calcutta, sampling studies have shown that during business
hours 40% to 50% of all call attempts fail because the called telephone is
busy. This phenomenon brings about repeated call attempts to busy numbers
and, as a result, generates additional traffic throughout the network. This
not only creates congestion in the call handling plant, which is shared by
all subscribers, but also increases the overall probability of encountering
a called subscriber who is busy. The situation is made worse by faulty
equipment.
34.       There is also a high level of congestion in the long distance net-
work brought about by the difficulties of completing calls through the local
networks and by the inadequate provision of trunk switching equipment. This
particularly affects the automatic trunk network during daytime hours. Manual
trunk calls also often encounter delays of two to four hours. In the case of
manual trunk calls, it is possible to pay higher charges and get a priority
connection. In the longer term, however, the most effective method of improv-
ing the trunk service will be by expanding the automatic trunk network; the
current draft five-year plan (1978-83) provides for increased additions to
the automatic trunk switching system, which will help alleviate congestion.
Sector Organization
35.       The telecommunications sector in India is state-owned and comprises
mainly the Posts and Telegraphs Department (P&T), the Overseas Communications
Service and three major public sector telecommunications manufacturing com-
panies. In addition to these, there are numerous smaller private manufacturers
who act as subcontractors to the major manufacturers.
36.       The P&T is a government department under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Communications. It is controlled by a seven member board of
senior executives, whose chairman is the Secretary of Communications. The
Board has adequate autonomy in policy formulation and day-to-day operations.
The Telecommunications Branch of P&T operates all public telecommunications
facilities within India and to adjacent countries. Overseas Communications
Services (OCS) operates all international communications with non-adjacent
countries. OCS is in the Ministry of Communications, but is an agency sepa-
rate from P&T. The telecommunications manufacturing industry consists of
three public sector companies, the Indian Telephone Industries Limited (ITI),
the Hindustan Teleprinters Limited (HTL) and the Hindustan Cables Limited
(HCL).  ITI manufactures mainly telephone exchange, transmission equipment
and telephone instruments. HTL manufactures teleprinters and miscellaneous
telegraph, telex and data terminal equipment. HCL manufactures virtually
all the telephone cable now used in the P&T network. The Telecommunications
Branch of P&T employs approximately 250,000 full-time staff and the equivalent
of about 130,000 temporary employees. The three manufacturers together have
about 30,000 employees.



- 11 -
Sector Objectives
37.       The main thrust of the draft five-year plan (1978-83) is to expand
the availability and quality of service outside the four major urban areas of
Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras. It complements the objective of GOI's
national development policy of encouraging development in backward and rural
areas, smaller towns and new growth centers. The plan intends to extend some
form of telephone service, by 1983, to practically all towns with a population
greater than 5,000 and to villages with a population greater than 2,500 in the
"hilly and backward" areas. It is proposed to provide 15,000 new long distance
public call offices during the five-year period.
38.       Three other important sector objectives are:  (a) to concentrate
investment in metropolitan area in such a manner as to reduce the number and
waiting time of the high priority OYT applicants; 1/ (b) to upgrade the qual-
ity of service in respect of traffic congestion and transmission performance
in both the local and long distance networks; and (c) to steadily increase
local equipment manufacturing capabilities to continue the move towards greater
self-reliance within the sector. While expansion of local manufacturing will
result in significant cost savings for P&T, the industry expansion objective
also brings with it the need to maintain applied research and development
activities at an adequate level so as to facilitate the orderly adaptation
to the Indian situation of new technologies and to provide the skills necesary
to sustain good management, operation and maintenance of the equipment in-
corporating the new technology.
Bank's Role in Sector
39.       During the period of Bank association with the sector, the number
of telephones has increased from 373,000 in 1962 to more than two million,
the trunk network has been expanded and modernized, and an automatic telex
network established which currently has more than 20,000 subscribers. The
Bank has also assisted the P&T in modernizing its organizational and man-
agement structure, and in establishing an Economic Cell which has begun
to analyze pricing and investment issues in the sector.
40.       The success of Bank Group involvement with the Indian telecommunica-
tions sector may also be judged by the declining dependence of the P&T capital
works programs on Bank Group financing.  Between 1971 and 1981, the annual
Bank disbursements to India for telecommunications development would have
varied between US$30 million and US$40 million, while the capital works
programs would have increased from around US$120 million in the early 1970s
to over US$500 million by the early 1980s.
41.       A project performance audit has been conducted on the third and
fourth lending operations to Telecommunications in India. These projects
1/   OYT stands for "own your telephone" and represents a scheme in which
potential subscribers (mostly business and government) who pay rela-
tively large advance deposits (up to US$581) receive priority status
for obtaining a telephone.



- 12 -
were considered by the audit to be successful. The audit found that institu-
tional and organizational achievements were substantial including the imple-
mentation of commercial accounting and a management information system. The
projects also contributed to the development of rural telecommunications and
national telecommunications industries. The projects did not, however, achieve
the construction targets envisaged, with the result that there was traffic
congestion on the system and longer than expected waiting times for connection
to the system. Improvement in this area is planned in the proposed project.
42.       Bank Group support has also been instrumental in making possible
higher investment levels in the telecommunications sector. Equally important
have been our contributions toward institutional improvement which have helped
P&T make efficient use of available resources and become one of the best man-
aged and financially and technically soundest Government enterprises in India.
43.       In line with these developments, bank emphasis within this sector
has been changing during recent years. While technical and institutional as-
pects used to be our main concerns, present emphasis is on the crucial sector
problems of unsatisfied demand for connections and chronic congestion of the
existing services. We are directly addressing the problems of the three major
manufacturing entities in the sector, to provide necessary capital equipment
for upgrading and modernizing the factories, and enhance their efficiency and
their ability to, supply equipment and materials to P&T in adequate quantities
and at comparatively low cost.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The project was appraised in January/February 1978, and a Staff
Appraisal Report is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1978. The Borrower's delegation
was led by Mr. J.A. Dave, Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of
Communications. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Program Project Objectives
45.       The project has been derived from GOI's five year development plan
for the Telecommunications sector.  The project comprises a priority component
of the first three years of the plan (April 1, 1978 to March 31, 1981) and is
geared to providing part of the foreign exchange requirements needed for
factory expansion and for expanding telecommunications services for final
consumers. The objectives of the five-year plan are broadly as follows:
(a) expand and improve the telecommunication services outside
the big four metropolitan areas of Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta
and Madras, by providing some form of telephone service to
all towns with a population over 5,000 and to villages with
a population over 2,500 in the hilly and backward areas,
by accelerating the expansion of rural public call offices;



- 13 -
(b) reduce the number and waiting time of high priority metro-
politan applicants;
(c) upgrade the quality of service by reducing traffic con-
gestion and improving transmission performance, in both
the local and long distance networks; and
(d) steadily increaise and upgrade local telecommunications manu-
facturing capabilities.
46.       The plan envisages installation of 1.15 million direct exchange
telephone lines, 15,000 public call offices in rural areas and a modest pro-
gram to continue conversion of manual telephone exchanges into automatic ex-
changes and replacement of old automatic exchanges. The long distance tele-
phone system would also be improved through the use of satellites as well as
microwave and cable media. Subscribers trunk dialing is also to be extended
on all important trunk routes.
Project Description
47.       The proposed project is designed to help achieve the objectives
outlined above over the iEirst three years of the five year plan. It consists
of four subprojects: (i) the P&T subproject; (ii) the Indian Telephone
Industries subproject; (iii) the Hindustan Cables subproject; and (iv) the
Hindustan Teleprinters subproject.
The P&T Subproject
48.       The P&T subproject will use the bulk of loan proceeds (US$100 mil-
lion) and would support P&T's investment program over three years to improve
the quantity and quality of telecommunications services in India. The total
cost of the P&T subproject is estimated at US$772 million including taxes and
duties. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$110 million, US$100 mil-
lion of which would be covered by the Bank loan; GOI would provide the balance
of US$10 million from its own resources. The investments to be financed in-
clude the installation of 340,000 lines of local telephone exchange equipment,
provision of subscribers' cable and associated equipment which will permit the
connection of approximately 260,000 new direct exchange lines; provision of
approximately 7,500 new long-distance public call offices in rural and back-
ward areas of the nation, extension of the automatic trunk network by the
provision of 38,000 lines of trunk exchange equipment, and provision of other
equipment needed to extend the telecommunications network.  Testing and
laboratory equipment to strengthen P&T's applied research and training
capabilities would also be provided.
49.       Under the project, a number of steps would be taken to enhance P&T's
operational effectiveness. One such step is that P&T would establish a new
traffic engineering group under the Member Telecommunications Development,
where it would be closely associated with network planning and development.
P&T has also strengthened its Economic Cell, established under the Sixth



- 14 -
Telecommunications project. This unit is now beginning to function effectively
and is recognized by management as a valuable addition to the organization.
The Economic Cell is adequately staffed to carry out several major studies at
hand.
50.       In order to improve the quality of service, the P&T had established
a number of expert committees, over the last two years, to analyze problems
and recommend corrective measures covering various aspects of network perform-
ance. While several of the committees' recommendations have been implemented,
there are others requiring action. One such area that requires action is the
implementation of the recommendations of a Committee on the Working of Metro-
politan Telephone Districts, currently under review by the P&T Board. Progress
of the studies and of the implementation of the recommendations would be fol-
lowed up during Bank's progress review missions.
51.       P&T finances.  As a Government department, P&T's budget forms part
of the national budget. All of its funds are paid into the Central Govern-
ment's consolidated fund, and all funds made available to P&T are through
parliamentary appropriation. Funds which are provided by the Government in
excess of the Telecommunications Branch's internal generation, including that
obtained from long-term external financing, are called capital-at-charge. P&T
pays dividends on capital-at-charge at a rate determined by GOI, currently at
6% per annum. P&T keeps separate accounts for its telecommunications and
postal operations. For its Telecommunications Branch, P&T maintains commer-
cial accrual accounts in addition to the conventional Government cash accounts.
52.       A substantial amount of funds generated by the Telecommunications
Branch is transferred to cover the losses of the postal operations. The
Government maintains telecommunication's tariffs at a level which permits
such transfer of funds to the Postal Branch without damaging the Telecommun-
ications Branch's ability to meet it financial requirements. Such transfers
during the three-year project period (1978/79, 1979/80, and 1980/81) are
estimated to be $84 million, $100 million and $120 million respectively,
which would represent over 30% of the Telecommunications Branch's profits
during those years.
53.       The Branch's operating results during the fiscal years 1975 through
1977 have been satisfactory and rates of return on net assets in operation
have been 19.0%, 16.3% and 29.0%, respectively.  However, these rates of
return have been computed on the original cost of assets and therefore tend
to overstate real returns. The operating ratio during this period, again
applying depreciation to original cost, varied from 55% to 72%. Other finan-
cial indicators reflect an acceptable financial performance with current
ratios of at least 3.1 times; debt-equity ratios of no more than 24/76 and an
internal cash generation during the period of 56% of the fund required after
covering debt services and postal losses.
54.       Projected earnings indicate that the Telecommunications Branch will
achieve rates of return on revalued net plant in operation (see paragraph 55)
of 15% in 1979, 14.3% in 1980 and 13.7% in 1981 based on the existing tariff.
The gradual decline of the rate of return is due to the large size of the



- 15 -
additions being made to existing assets and the lag in the full use of the new
facilities. The operating ratio remains constant at about 60. The financial
position would remain strong throughout the project period with debt-equity
ratios of no more than 23/77, current ratios of at least 2.9 times, and debt
service and postal transfer coverage of at least 3.3 times.
55.       Under previous agreement with the Bank Group, the Telecommunications
Branch was required to review the value of its net fixed assets in operation
at least every five years and determine whether it was necessary to adjust the
value to reflect current prices. As with the previous agreements, the pro-
posed agreement requires the Branch to take all measures required to realize
an annual rate of return of not less than 11% on the average net value of the
Branch's fixed assets in operation (Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement). How-
ever, until the valuation study is completed, it will not be possible to deter-
mine whether or not this rate of return has been achieved. Therefore, during
negotiations of the proposed project, the P&T agreed to complete the review
of its assests not later than March 31, 1980, and commencing fiscal year 1981
to make necessary adjustments to the value or the purpose of rate of return
calculations (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement). Until then, the P&T would
also take all measures necessary to produce at least 60% of Branch's annual
capital expenditures from internal sources (Section 4.05 of the Loan Agreement).
The forecasts for FYs79-83 indicate that such contributions to capital expendi-
tures would be achieved at the present tariff levels.
The ITI Subproject
56.       ITI is the largest of the three main telecommunications equipment
manufacturers. Its production units consist of factories located at Bangalore,
Naini and Rae Bareli employing 18,000, 4,000, and 1,500 people respectively.
In addition, it has an electronic switching division at Palghat and a com-
ponents division at Srinagar. The company manufactures switching equipment,
transmission equipment, telephone instruments and other miscellaneous tele-
communications equipment. Approximately 85% of its output is purchased by
P&T. About 13% is sold to GOI entities such as Railways and Overseas Com-
munications Service and to private industry. About 2% is exported.
57.       ITI has expanded its output roughly in parallel with the growing
demands of P&T although at present it is unable to produce sufficient switch-
ing equipment to meet the requirements of P&T's program. It has developed
and is extending local production capability of transmission equipment and is
progressively reducing the need to import complete systems. It has an active
import substitution program designed to reduce the import content in raw
materials and components of its locally manufactured equipment. Its products
are comparable in quality with internationally procured equipment and prices
are competitive. Its total turnover has grown from Rs 419 million (US$48.7
million) in FY73 to Rs 881 million (US$102 million) in FY77. The objective
of the ITI subproject is to ensure that ITI can increase its outputs to meet
the requirements of P&T. ITI's capability to assure the quality of its pro-
ducts also needs to be strengthened; this would be done under the project by
improving procedures and installing more modern equipment. The investments



- 16 -
to be financed include more modern testing and measuring equipment and the
replacement of obsolete machines in production and tool room units of ITI.
The facilities of the microcircuit laboratory in Bangalore would be expanded,
and the project would also provide increased computer capacity for purposes
of production and management control.
58.       The cost of the subproject is US$23.6 million including US$10.3
million of foreign exchange which would be covered by the Bank loan.
The HCL Subproject
59.       HCL produces a wide variety of telephone cables and line wire with
a total output of approximately US$50 million in FY77. It has factories at
Rupnarainpur and Hyderabad where it employs 3,000 and 900 people, respectively.
60.       HCL's output goes primarily to the P&T but it also produces cables
for other customers such as Indian Railways and is meeting with some success
on the export market. It has been able to meet fully P&T's requirements
apart from small size, jelly filled distribution cable and small diameter
coaxial cable. The company undertakes a reasonable amount of research and
development, designed mainly to improve its existing products. It plans to
increase this effort and initiate some work in the field of optical fibers
with a view to improving its firsthand knowledge of this emerging and poten-
tially important technology.
61.       Its products are technically good and its prices are competitive
in the international market. Its output has grown from Rs 150 million
(US$18 million) in FY74 to over Rs 450 million (US$50 million) in FY77.
62.       As is the case with ITI, HCL's output plans are based on P&T's re-
quirements for the expansion of the telecommunications network and the sub-
project provides for capital equipment necessary to increase output in line
with the requirements of the P&T subprojects. As in the case of ITI, HCL's
capability to assure the quality of its products needs to be strengthened,
and this would be done under the project. Over the period from FY79 to FY82,
the project would enable HCL to increase the output of large size telephone
cables by approximately 40% and small size, jelly filled distribution cable
and small diameter coaxial cable by more than 100%.
63.       The works to achieve these objectives comprise the replacement of
cable production machines which have reached the end of their economic life,
and the provision of new machines, plant and testing instruments. Also in-
cluded is some research and development equipment mainly related to building
up some experience for future manufacture of optical fiber cables which are
likely to play a large part in future expansion of the P&T transmission net-
work.
64.       The estimated cost of the subproject is US$19 million, including
US$10.4 millon in foreign exchange. It is proposed that the Bank loan would
finance US$7.5 million of the foreign cost. GOI would finance the balance.



- 17 -
The HTL Subproject
65.       HTL produces teleprinters, electric typewriters, data modems and
miscellaneous items of teliegraph and data equipment. Its main product line
is the teleprinter which, together with spares and accessories, accounts for
more than 95% of its outpult. The company was established in 1960 and its
factory is located at Madras. It currently employs about 2,000 people.
66.       Since 1970, it has been producing between 5,000 and 6,000 tele-
printers per year, of whicln 60 to 70% are sold to P&T, about 30% to other
customers and about 2% exported. It has maintained its capacity at a level
sufficient to meet P&T's requirements and has the potential to do so in the
future.
67.       The price of its products is competitive by world standards and
they are technically sound. Its major product, the teleprinter, is cheaper
than internationally produced machines but is not of modern design and its
operating and maintenance costs are greater than for more expensive equipment
of more modern technology. Nevertheless, it is judged adequate for the Indian
telecommunications network and has won export orders. HTL has a small research
and development group which requires expansion as is planned.
68.       HTL's output is largely governed by P&T's requirements and the
objective of the HTL subproject is to enable factory output to be increased
to match the incremental requirement of the P&T subproject and ongoing planned
requirements. To meet this objective, the production capacity for teleprinters
must be increased from approximately 7,000 per year in FY78 to 10,000 per year
in FY83. HTL's procedures for assuring the quality of its products would also
be strengthened under the project.
69.       The subproject comprises, in the main, replacement of worn out
and obsolete machines in the production and tool room areas of the factory.
In addition, some provision is included for testing and measuring equipment
in order to upgrade HTL's modest research and development capability. This
is necessary so as to enable it to improve its existing products and to give
it experience with modern technology applicable to the telegraph and data
field.
70.       The estimated c,Dst of this subproject is US$4 million with a for-
eign exchange content of IJS$2.2 million which is proposed for Bank financing.
Implementation
71.       For the P&T subproject all installation and maintenance of telecom-
munications equipment would be by P&T's technical staff with support from
manufacturers' specialists where new technologies are involved. The large and
technically competent P&T staff, supported by the existing comprehensive train-
ing programs, would ensure an adequate supply of technicians and line staff for
installation and future maintenance of project facilities. The manufacturing
units would install the equipment to be provided under the project by factory
personnel who are competent to complete the installation without difficulty.



- 18 -
Project Costs and Financing
72.       The total project cost -- of all subprojects -- is US$818.4 million,
of which US$133 million represents the foreign exchange cost. The Bank loan
of US$120 million would be applied against the foreign exchange costs, leaving
US$13 million of foreign exchange to be provided by GOI. The Telecommunica-
tions Branch of P&T would be able to generate internally 69% of its financial
requirements and will obtain the remainder from borrowing, Government contribu-
tion and subscribers' deposits.
73.       The total cost of all factories sub-projects is US$46.6 million,
including US$22.9 million in foreign exchange of which the Bank would finance
US$20 million. GOI would relend the Bank's contribution to the individual
factories under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between GOI
and each of the three factories (ITI, HTL and HCL), which would have to be
approved by the Bank. The relending terms would include annual interest at
no less than 10.25% and a repayment period of fifteen years including three
year's grace period (Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). The remainder
of the investment requirements of the factories ($26.6 million) would be met
from internal cash generation and from borrowings.
Procurement and Disbursement
74.       All equipment imported directly by P&T and financed by the Bank
for the P&T subproject (US$40 million) would be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group's
Guidelines. All equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank for the
factories subprojects (US$20 million) would also be procured under ICB.
75.       As with previous lending operations, ICB is not proposed for those
equipment items in the P&T subproject (US$60 million) for which considerations
of economy and efficiency give a clear advantage to domestic factories in
providing telecommunications systems of this size with closely coordinated
local supply of both equipment and cables. Close coordination is particularly
important for cable supply where many sizes and wire gauges are involved and
where supplies are destined for thousands of individual works throughout India
within each program. For switching and transmission equipment, there is fur-
ther strong justification for reasons of economy, compatibility and standard-
ization. Examination during appraisal confirmed that the items produced by
the factories were comparable in quality with internationally procured equip-
ment and prices were competitive. Bank financing in this case is limited to
the foreign exchange content (raw materials required for production) of the
domestically procured goods. These raw materials will be procured by the three
factories using ICB or prudent international shopping as may be appropriate.
76.       For direct imports for the P&T subproject and all procurement for
the factory subprojects, disbursements would be made against the cost of
imports of equipment and materials. In the case of P&T purchases from the
local factories, as in the past, disbursement would be made against invoices
to the P&T of a percentage of the purchase price calculated to represent the



- 19 -
foreign exchange content of the goods supplied for the sub-project. These
percentages are currently estimated as follows for purchases from:
ITI: 25% of the selling price
HCL: 36% of the selling price; and
HTL:   6% of the selling price.
These percentages would be subject to review and revised if necessary in the
light of changes in the situation.
Economic Justification and Risk
77.       In India there is a large and growing unsatisfied demand for tele-
communications services which is unlikely to be fully met in the foreseeable
future. Given this situation, GOI is paying increasing attention to allocat-
ing efficiently the limited resources available to the telecommunications
sector. During the 1979-83 planning period investment priorities will be in
rural and smaller district centers, and in those portions of the large metro-
politan areas in which there is still a large unmet demand by high priority
users.
78.       Economic benefits from telecommunications arise from the more effi-
cient use of resources made possible in other sectors of the economy. Pro-
ductivity is improved, waste is avoided, the disadvantages of distance and of
dispersal of people and productive units are reduced and markets are greatly
expanded. For example, telecommunication links facilitate regional develop-
ment in backward areas, and the management of infrastructure projects; without
them, the efficient marketing of perishable commodities is impossible. Bene-
fits from the proposed project should touch all segments of the population in
India. Indirectly, government administration and private business should
obtain efficiency since telecommunications is the least-cost means of commu-
nication for a wide variety of economic and social welfare activities. A
direct impact will be felt by applicants of high priority in business and
commerce and by the population in rural and backward areas.
79.       The 15,000 additional rural public call offices, the 2,300 additional
small rural exchanges, and the approximately 700,000 new direct exchange lines
allocated to district centers and cities other than Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi
and Madras should help facilitate the achievement of the government's goal
of stimulating economic development outside of the major metropolitan areas,
encouraging decentralization, and reducing transport and communication-related
costs in a wide spectrum of economic and social sectors. In particular, the
provision of services related to agricultural extension and to health, welfare,
and education in rural areas involves, in many cases, use of staff with limited
expertise who can benefit by obtaining direction and advice over the telephone
from more qualified personnel at main centers. As a result of this emphasis
on investment outside the larger metropolitan areas, a major improvement in
quality of service will be made in smaller cities and district centers, while
in smaller towns and villages potentially 60 million people will receive local
public access to telephone facilities for the first time.



- 20 -
80.       The Telecommunications Branch of P&T has a much wider impact on
communications and other activities in India than is apparent from telephone
statistics. For example, the universal access postal service receives a
transfer of funds from the Telecommunications Branch sufficient to cover
postal losses. In 1977 over 19% of the total capital and operating costs
of the Postal Branch of P&T was covered out of telecommunications revenues.
Overall during the 1979-83 period Government will receive from the Telecom-
munications Branch net revenues of Rs 9,231 million.
81.       As the resources allocated to the telecommunications sector in India
are insufficient to meet demand in full, pricing policy is another means by
which the benefits of services are focussed on high priority users. Currently,
the pricing mechanism is used to ration access and to promote priority usage
of the system. Pricing policy is further used to promote cheaper local serv-
ice for those residing outside the large cities and in the rural areas. Both
the required high priority user and regular advance deposits, and the monthly
telephone rental charges, are generally less in the smaller telephone service
areas.
82.       Given the externalities associated with telecommunications, the
discount rate which equalizes the projects' expected stream of revenues with
capital and operating costs is a conservative estimate of the project's
economic return. The financial rate of return is 20% -- a 10% increase in
costs, a 10% decline in revenues and a two-year delay in program completion
imply a rate of not less than 14%. When labor and foreign exchange are
shadow-priced, the economic rate of return is 22%.
83.       The program is technically feasible and involves no special risks.
The subproject objectives are well defined and the implementing institutions
are adequately staffed and experienced to carry out the project without undue
difficulty.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft Pro-
ject Agreement between ITI, HCL and HTL and the Bank, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
85.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
86.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
87.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 26, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA              - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                                         -
INDIA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     3280.5                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    1797.5                       1960      1970   ESTIMATE          INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    60.0      lQ0.0      150.0             130.0       230.0       550.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)         434.9      547.6    620.4  /a            117.6       36.9        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                     133.0      16170    189.0                62.0       123.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      247.0      308.0     345.0               411.0      375.0        49.0
VITAL STATIStICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE U/THOU, AV)        43.2       41.0       37.0               45.9       44.2        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         23.9       19.0       17.0               20.6        13.2        9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      139.0/a       ..     130.0                           81.0       110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      41.7       47.2      49.5                  ..       55.6        59.4
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE              3.2        2.9       2.8                 3.2        3.3         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                2,0        2.3       2.1                 2.0        3.0         2.9
URBAN                                2.5Lb      3.2        3.1                3.7/a      4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULAtION (% OF TOTAL)          17.9      19.8       20.6               17.5Lb     27.6        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      41.0       41.6      40.1               44.0        45.6        42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                      55.9       55.3      56.7               53.5        51.6        55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.1       3.1        3.2                2.5        2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8       0.8        D.                 0.9        0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               l.CLe     1.1/a     J..L/                .         1.5         1 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)        71.0   14585.0   37658.0                259.3      320.0       250.0
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..         ..       18.7                 ..        2.0         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)      175000.0  218000.0 261000.0/a                        12400.0    28400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)        71.0       69.0      69.0                  ..       ss.o/a      40.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)          4.8 /d   4.4 /b   4.4'/c,d                ,          1.6        7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           26.7       25.0 /       ..                 ..          ..       35-0/a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           51.7       53.1 {c      .,                 ,.       54,0        62.7/a
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            4.1        4.7 78      *        .                   3 6         3 07wr
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           13.6       13.1         -                  *-       117 7a
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNEO BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             .4 ..                .,                  .          ..       46.0
% OWNED bY SMALLEST iO% OWNERS                                                                           5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            5840.0._e 4890.0    4220.0             26370.0           ..     1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       5310.0.A 220.0/d  3080.0 /               7630.0/        *-      3220.0.1.
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         2590.0o   h  1610.0       ..             1640.0      850.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        95.D      92.0       89.0                91.0       93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             55.0       53.0      48 n                43.0       45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0/i    18.0       12.6                14.0       22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            44.0        ..         ..                 ,,         6.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENSCOLLMEN                   41.0      63.0       65.0               75.0        113.0       87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    23.0      30.0       29.0               15.0        49.0        68.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0       12.0      11.0                12.0       10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                     8.0         .,                          29.0        6.0 lb    17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                24.0      33.0       36.F0A             59.0                   64.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2,6       2.8         ..                 ..         2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER  M%)                       ..        ..         ..                 ..       76.0        73.0 /C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..        ..         ..                 ..       23.0        48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..        ..         *                  *-         7.0        8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          5.0      21.0       25.0              114.0       39.0        60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           0.7       1.0        1.0                2.0         8.0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           46.0     114.0    143.0                 20.0       235.0      491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.2       0.3        0.3                0.3         2.0         2.7
----------------------------------------- _---------------- ---------- __    -----______ _____ ______ _____ ____-
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITtONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unlesm: otherwisa noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, fgr 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Most Recent Estimate between
19 73 an   176.
**  -ail h.. been  selatted a. an objective country because of its size aod comparable problem   of regional  inequality.
IDA     1960    /a  1951-61 aver.ge; .  /b  1951-601            /c  Ratio of population under 15 aod 65 and ove  to labor force age 15 and over;
/d  Estimated   by  National Sampls Survey, in terms of the averaeg  rnmber of person/weeks  of unmployent as percentage
of total person/weeks in the labor force;            /a  1962;      If  Registered, not all practicing in the country;               IA  Including
.idwives;    /h  1958;    L.i  1960-62.
1970     /a.E atio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force  age 15 and over;                   /b  Estimated by Netiona1 Sample
Survey, in terms of the average number of pmron/weeks of unamployment as percntegs of total person/eeks  in the total
labor force;    Ic  1967-68;         Id  Including midwives.
MOST RECENT ESTThATE:        /s  1978 aId-year population and labor forte estimated at 640.4 and 261 millions respectively;                       lb  Raetio of
population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;    /c  1977;                 /d  Estimated by National Semple
Survey, in terms of the average number of person/weeks of unemployment as percentage of total person/weeks
in the labor force;        /a  Including midwives;    If  Population 10 years and over.
INDONESIA       1970     /a  1961-71;    /b  1971;    /c  including mi7dwives.
PHILIPPINES    1970      /a  As percentage of employment;           /b  Not Including private vocatiuonal schools.
BRAZIL          1970      /a  Econmoic.lly active population;          /b  Hospital personnel;    /c  Inside only.
R13, May 2, 1978
DWIPTIOE OP SOCIAL DSSDICATOBS
Land___Am _____h   _ k2population Per nursie  person- Population divided by nmber of practicing
Total -Total surfce area comprising land are  end inland waters,                                   male end Eomelte graduste  uss  "trained' or "certified" nurses, and
Agi.-Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporsrily or peorma-                    auxiliary personnel witb training or experience.
nently fsr crops, pastures, merkt . bitchen gardens or to lie fallen.                         Population per hoepital bed - Populstion divided by ..ber of hospital beds
svsilabl. in public mod privat  general and spcislised h..pit.1 .nd
GAr Per .. its (UjS$) - GN? per capits estimates at current market prices                          rshabilitation centes ; excludes nursing horns and astoblialhenso  for
calculated by sam  coversion msthod as World Bash Atlas (1974-76 baste);                         custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 sod 1976 data.                                                                     Per ..Pit. supply Of calories (7. of requirements) - tempured from  enrgy
equivalent of mat food supplias availsble in country per ..pit. Per day;
Psou.l.tion aod vital statistic&                                                                   available supplies cceprise d-.etic production, imports lass experts, nd
P.,pul.tion Imid-Y.ar million) - us of July first:  if not avilable, overge                        changes in stook; net suppli.s exc tud. anImal f.sd, seeds * quatities u..d
of tw  sod-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data.                                             in food processing aod lIsses in distribution; requir-nts  were estimated
by FAO base.d on physiological needs for normal activity and health consid-
P.pulation denaity -par sousr bem - Mid-year population per square kiloster                        or ing anvirom"an tal temprature, body weights, age and sex distributions of
(100 he.tares) of total ares.                                                                   popula tion, and allowing 107  for waste at household level.
Population dena icy- per seusre 1w of merit. land - teapmprd .s above for                        Per ..pit. supply of protein (arsm  per day) - Protein content of per cepita
agricultural land only.                                                                          net supply df fsod per day; mar supply of food is defined as shove; requir--
men ts for alt countries established by usDA Ec-onomi Research Services
VItal  tatistics                                                                                   proide for a minimum allowance of 60 gream  of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rat  per thousand. average - Annual live birtho per thousand of                        2i grams of enimal and pulse protein, of which IS grams should be animal
.id-year population ; ten-yesr arithmatic ever.ges ending in 1960 and 1970,                      protein; thos  stadards are lowr thon those of 75 gr-m  of total protein
and five-yea.r average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                                  end 23 grams of anfIma  protein as an average for the world, Proposed by FAO
Crude desth rate per thousand. wvraze - Annual destho per thousand of mid-yea                      io the Third World Pond Survey.
population; tan-year arithostic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                     Per capita protsin supply from snimal and pulse - Prot.in supply of fond
year averS.agending in 1975 for moat recen.t estimate,                                           derived from animals and pulses in grams par day.
Infant mortality rate i/thou)- Annual deaths of infants under one year of age                    Death rats (/thou) agesa 1-4 - AmnuaI deaths per thousan.d In age group 1-4
per thouasod live birtho.                                                                        years, to children In this age group; suggested  s an indicator of
Life expectancy at birth fyrs)  A-Aerge numbsr of years of life remaining at                       malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 sod 1975 for dwvelop-
ing countries.                                                                                Education
Gros reproduction rare  - Average number of live daughters a women will bear                     Adjusted enrollment rstio - prinsrv school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her normal rproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                         cntage of primary echool-ege popelation; includes childrem  aged 6-11 years
fertilit   rae;      Isly five-year averges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                        but adjusted for different lengthe of primary aduc..tiom; for countries with
for devlopintg' coutrias .                                                                       universal education, enrOllmsnt may emceed 1001% since e             pupils are below
Population growth rate (7.) - tots1 - Cumpoud annua  growth rats of mid-year                       or above the official school eag.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 mod 1970-75.                                                   Adjusted enrollment ratio - meo.odary school - Computed as shove; secondary
Population growth rate (7.) - urban - temperd like growth rete of total                            education requires at least four years of approved primary instrution;
population; different definitioa of urban areas may affect comparability of                      provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions, for pepil.
date among countries,                                                                            of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence couse  are geneally excluded.
irbn population  (% of total) - Ratio of urb.n to total population; different                    Years of schooling Provided (first and secod level s) - Total Year  of
definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of date among countries.                     schooling; at secondery level, vocational instruction may be partially or
Aee structure (percent) - Children  (S-li years), working-age (15-64 yeare),                     Vocaional onrocl=iee  C of ... ondary) - Vocational Institutions include
and retired  (65 years and over) .e percentages of mid-y-s  population,                          technical, industrial or other program   which oprate independently or a
Ago dependency ratio  - Rstic or populo tion under 15 and 65 and ovr to those                      departments of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                         Adult literacy rate (7.) - Literate adults  (able to read and write) se per-
k_.onmic dependenc.y ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                       tentage of total adult population aged 15 years end over.
the labor force to age group of 15-64 years.
Family plannin  - acce..ptors ic,amul.tive. thou) - Cumultive number of acc.sptors               Hous ing
of birth-control devices under auspices of national family planning program                   Persona Per room (urban) - A-aregs nber of person   per roo  in occupied
since Lin. ption.                                                                                conventi-onl dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanet
Family planning - users ft of married women) - Percentages of married woman of                     structures and unoccpied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to ell marriad                  Occupied dwellings without piped water (4) - Occupied conventional dwllinge
.emen in same age group.                                                                         in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water fecilirtee
aspretg   fiall ccu.pied dwellings.
EsPloywont                                                                                       Acesto electricit  (1f all dwellings) -Convetional  dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persona , including armed                       electricity in living quartrer  as percen.t of total dwellings is urban and
forces and unemployed but seoluding housewives, atud.ors, etc.; dnfinition.                      rurl ara..
En various countries are not comparable.                                                      Rural del1ings conneted to electricity it.) - Competed as shon  for rural
Labor force in agric.lture (7.5 - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                  dwellings only.
hunting end fishing) as percm"tag. of total lebor force.
Unempi,oed (% of labor famce)  U-eployed are ususlly defined as persona who                      conaumption
are able and willing to takea job, out of a Job on a given day, remained out                   Radio roeeivrs (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcas.ts
o,f a Job, and  aseking work for a specified minimom period not exceeding one                    to genere1 public per thousand of population; excldes uncese.d receivers
wek; may not be romparbla between countries due to different definitions                         in coutries and in years when registration of radio sets wee in affect;
o,f uneployed  nd source of data, e.g. , employment office statistics, sample                    data for recet years may not be comparable since cot countries abolished
E'nya    upul.ory unemployment insure-e                                                     licening.
Pasener crs oarthou pop) - Passeger cars comprise motor cars seaoting
I-cmm distribution  -Percentage of private moose (both in cash end kind)                           les  thenright pesoa;exldes ambulances, hears.s end military
r ...iv-d by ricbset 514, richeat 201, pooresr 201, end poorst 40t of house-                     vehicle..
holds.                                                                                         Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial, comercia1,
public and private electric ity in kilowatt hour per cepita, generally
DL.tribution of land ownar-hip - Percentages of 1amd owned by wealthiest 101%                      b.eed ow production data, wIthout allowance for losses in grids but allo--
mod poorest 101 of Send ownere.                                                                  ing for Imports and exports ohf electricity.
Newsprint (ba/Tr per cap) - Per cspita annual consumption in kilngrams
Health and Nutrition                                                                               estimated from  domastic production pl.s mar imports of newsprint.
Posul.tion per physlicia - Population divided by n,bar of practicing
physfician qualified from a medical school at university leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPN1T DATA
GNP PER CAPITA iN 1976 * VSt tSO
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77                                                             AN/ AAL RATE OF GROMTE ('. ooneteat crioem)
USS Bln.          .                                            1960/6t-_964/65      1965/66-1969/70      1970/71-1975/76
GNP at Market Prices             86.04      1o0.o                                                   3.9                  3.8                  2.9
Gross Domestio Investment        16.62       19.3
Gross National Saving            18.18       21.1
Current Account Balance           1.56        1.8
Resource Gap                      0.95        1.1
OUTPVT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value Added (at fEwotor ooet)          _Labor  Fo                     .A, Per WMoko
USS Bln.           -s                  11il.       <                       % of Nattwal Aver g
Agrioulture                      30.2               43                 179.0       69               169           63
Industry                         16.7               24                  33.9      13                494          193
Services                         23.4               33                  48.0       18               488          133
Total/average                    70.3              100                 261       100                277          100
GOVMIMENT FINANCE
General Government /                                               Centzal qoYplast
TREI. Bin)     _      %    1f                                                                GDP
1976/77       1976/77    1974/75-1976/7                           1976/77       1976/77  1974/75-1976/77
Current Receipts                   147.46         19.1            17.9                                83.78          10.9          10.4
Current Expenditures               140.18         18.2            16.2                                84.2           10.9           9.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              7.28          0.9             1.7                               - 0.47            -            0.8
Capital Expenditures  a/            59.05          7.6            7.1                                 40.39           5.2           5.0
External Assistance (net)           11.21          1.5             1.7                                11.21           1.5           1.7
MONEY. CREDIT AnD PRICES          1970/71     j         /73  1973i/74  1974/75    j2      6     1976/77      Seted i976          Sentember 1977
Billion Rs outstanding at end of period
Money and Quasi Money              105.7       142.2        169.0       186.9        215.0       262.6           238.2              284.8
Bank Credit to Publio Seotor(net)  56.9         82.5         92.9       102.6        109.1       117.3           112.7              130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector       56.7        76.0         90.1       109.5        127.5       161.0           144.0              170.0
(Peroentage or Index Numbers)                            Jamar, 1977         January 1978
Money and Quasi Money aS % of GDP  24.3         27.3         26.4        25-5         27.6        31.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                 100.0       1 16.2      139.7        174.9       173.0        176.6           178.8              183.3
Annual percentage changes in&
Wholesale Prioe Index                7.7        10.0         20.2        25.2         -1.1         2.1             7.5                2.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  8.6          19.6        12.6        10.4         6.3          7.5             4 7 Li            15 8  /
Bank Credit to Private Sector       17.3        18.0         18.5        21.5         16.4        26.3            24.9J/             1t.9
a/ The per oapita GNP estimate is at market prioes, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other oonversions to dollare in this table are at the aversge exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
/ Quick Estimates.
1/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and Oe
observation after last year of listed period.
4/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
l/ Al loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
f/ Net bank credit to Government Sector.
S/ Bank oredit to Commercial Sector.



ANN2X I
Page 4
BALANCE oFAr PA            D          18t974h5       JMSZ 6        .i61       17JU                                 i 6iI     Eom  (f V            974/75   1976/77 )
lEports of Goods                         4,174        4,665         5,760          6,400                              -     tsu1ng Goods       515           11
Isports of Goods                       -5.665        -6,084        *5,950         -6,600                            Sugr                       379            8
Trade    on'l                          -1,491        -1,419        -  190      _         200                        Tes                        296            6
826  (net)                                 213          510           465            500                            Jut Y5nufsotures           294            6
Leather and Leather
R eouroo C*D                           -1,278        -1,109           215            300                                    Products           268            5
ClothiAg                  257             5
Intert Paye.nt (not)                    -  198       -  216           135         -  130                            IronOre                    258            5
Other Faotor Pey.nts (net)                  -            -                                                          Cotton Textiles            223            5
let Transfers Al                           257          470           730          1000 tOro                                                 2396           49
Total                     4866          100
lKsnoe OD Currnt oeoamt                -1,217        _ 855            810          1,170
Official Aid                                                                                                        EXTf       =T. 11RCH 31, 1977
Disbursements                       1,761         2,341        1,953           1,840                                                                usJ Biion
Amortization                         -515         -531          -560          - 630                             Outstanding and Disbursed               13.6
Trnsactions with IM                        522          242         -336          -  330                            V*disbursed                               3.2
All Other Ite                             -589         -403         -292              23                            OutstedIng, including Undisbureed       16.8
Inorese in Reserves (_)                     38         _794       -1,575          -2,073                             MT SERImC  RILTIo pOR 1976/77         14.4   percent
Gross Reserves (end year)                1,378        W,172        3,747           5,820
Not Reserves (end year)  k/                758        1,365         3,276          5,670                            I302IDA LDING. December 311  1977  (USt ln..)
Puel and Related  aterials                                                                                                                            IYRD        IDA
Imports                                 1,451         1,417        1,358         1,8D0                              Outstanding and Disbursed        489.0     3,560.5
of which, Potrolee                   1,451         1,417        1,580        t,800                              Undi b        irsdd               674.9     1,257.0
outsted=n, including
Elport                                      26           43           37          ,,U                                    Undiebur-ed               1,163.9     4,817.5
of whicht Petrolea                       17           22           21          n.a.
RATE OF EXCHAUGE
Prior to mid-December 197t1        C  t1.OO a Re 7.5                                                                After end June 1972    t   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00 = 1880.133333                                                           Spot Rate January 31, 1978
Yid-Deeember 1971 to           I   0881.00 a Re 7.27927                                                                       approx. USt1.00 = RB  8.063
end June 1972                   Rs 1.00 = US10.137376                                                                      approx. Re 1.00 = USSO.124
h/ Retimated.
F figures given cover all Investment income (net). Ihjor payeents      Ifter1nt 0n foeign los  mnd
charges paid to DP1, and saJor roeipt is intereet earnd on foreign assets.
1/ Figures given include workers' remittanee. but exclude official grant "sistanoe, which is laluded
within offioial aid disburmonts.
_/ Eoludes net use of Ifr ordit.
A/ mnortisation and interest pa2-unts an foreign ilsum as a percentage of sevchandie mporte.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31,   1978)
US$ Millionl'
Loan or                                                                                               o   aclain
Credit No.          Year     Borrower                     Purpose                                (Net of Cancellation)
Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                                l19O*.6
51 Credits fully disbursed                                                                           2,604.6
267-IN              1971      India         Wheat Storage                                     --       5.0        3.4
294-IN              1972      India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                        --      14.0        9.1
312-IN              1972      India         Population                                       --       21.2        6.1
342-IN              1972      India         Education                                        --       12.0        9.3
356-IN              1972      India         IDBI                                             --       25.0       10.5
377-IN              1973      India         Power Transmission III                           --       85.0        3.1
378-IN              1973      India         Mysore Agricultural Markets                      --        8.0        6.9
902-IN              1973       ICICI        IrLdustry DFC X                                  67.5      --         5.8
390-IN              1973      India         Bombay Water Supply                              --       55.0       25.3
403-IN              1973       India        Telecomamunications V                             --      80.0         3.4
427-IN              1973      India         Caklcutta Urban Development                       --      35.0       10.1
440-IN              1973      India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                         --      32.0       14.9
456-IN              1974      India        HN' Apple Processing & marketing                   --      13.0        9.9
481-IN              1974      India         Trombay IV                                        --      50.0       11.6
1011-IN              1974       India        Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                          52.0      --         34.8
482-IN              1974      India         Kairnataka Dairy                                  --      30.0        26.0
502-IN              1974      India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                               --      83.0       52.5
520-IN              1974      India         Sindri Fertilizer                                --       91.0       18.2
521-IN              1974      India         Rajasthan Dairy                                   --      27.7       25.8
522-IN              1974      India         Madhya Pradesh Dairy                              --      16.4       15.3
526-IN              1975      India         Drought Prone Areas                               --      35.0       24.3
1079-IN              1975       IFFCO        I;PFCO Fertilizer                               109.0      --        66.2
1097-IN              1975      ICICI         ILdustry DFC XI                                 100.0      --         27.4
532-IN              1975      India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                      --       45.0       22.2
541-IN              1975      India         West Bengal Agricultural Development             --       34.0       25.4
562-IN              1975      India         Char,abal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                   --       24.0       18.4
572-IN              1975      India         Rural Electrification                             --      5710       46.0
582-IN              1975      India         Railways XIII                                    --      110.0       16.7
585-IN              1975      India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                       --       40.0       36.4
598-IN              1975      India         Fertilizer Industry                               --     105.0       90.8
604-IN              1976      India         Power Transmission IV                             --     150.0      149.6
609-IN              1976      India         Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                      --       4.0         3.8
610-IN              1976      India         Integrated Cotton Development                     --      18.0        17.7
616-IN              1976       India        Industrial Imports XI                             --     200.0         1.7
1251-IN(TW)          1976       India        Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                       145.0      --       142.8
1260-IN              1976       India        IDBI II                                          40.0      --         37.0
1273-IN              1976      India         National Seed                                    25.0      --         25.0
1313-IN              1976       India        Telecommunications VI                            80.0       -         36.1
1335-IN              1976       BMRDA        Bombay Urban Transport                           25.0      --         21.2
680-IN              1977       India        Kerala Agricultural Development                   --      30.0        30.0
682-IN              1977      India         Orissa Agricultural Development                   --      20.0        20.0
685-IN              1977      India         Singrauli Thermal Power                           --     150.0      137.0
687-IN              1977       India        Nadras Urban Development                          --      24.0        23.5
695-IM              1977      India         Gujarat Fisheries                                 --       4.0         4.0
1394-IN(TW)          1977       India        Gujarat Fisheries                                14.0      --         14.0
690-IN              1977      India         Urest Bengal Agricultural Development             --      12.0        12.0
712-IN              1977      India         Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development           --      10.0       10.0
715-IN              1977      India         Second ARDC Credit                                --     200.0      175.9
720-IN              1977      India         P'eriyar Vaigai Irrigation                        --      23.0       23.0
728-IN              1977      India         Assam Agricultural Development                    --       8.0        8.0
1473-IN              1977       India         Blombay High Offshore Development              150.0       --       104.5
736-IN              1977      India         Maharashtra Irrigation                            --      70.0        70.0
737-IN              1977      India         Rlajasthan Agricultural Extension                 --      13.0       13.0
740-IN              1977      India         Orissa Irrigation                                 --      58.0       58.0
1475-IN              1977       ICICI         Industry DFC XII                                80.0       --        79.0
* 747-IN              1978       India         Second Foodgrain Storage                         --     107.0       107.0
* 756-IN              1978       India         Second Calcutta Urban Development                --       87.0       87.0
A 761-IN              1978       India         Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research          --        8.0        8.0
*1511-IN              1978       India         IDBI Joint/Public Sector                        25.0       --        25.0
Total                                                                 2,013.I  4,933.9
of which has been repaiid                                            854.4      35.5
Total now outstanding                                                 1,158.7  4,898.4
Amount Sold                              133.2
of which has been repisid              111.5                           2r.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       1,137.0  4,898.4
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                         593.8  1,299.0
* Not yet effective.
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.                                                                            Anril 1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                 Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                                Loan      Equity   Total
1959       Republic Forge Company Ltd.                1.5        -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -         0.9
1960       Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                     1.4        -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7       0.3        1.0
1964       Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.               0.8       0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8       1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0       0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0       0.1        1.1
1967       Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1       3.8       18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                             6.6        -         6.6
TOTAL                             49.6       8.8       58.4
Less:  Sold                                6.0       1.6        7.6
Repaid                            14.5        -        14.5
Cancelled                          6.2       0.7        6.9
Now Held                          22.9       6.5       29.4
Undisbursed                        5.3        -         5.3



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in tlhat year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,893
million as of March 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
'Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Irndustrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Projject; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established developrment finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium and large scale
industries, which are often employing high technology and are export oriented.
Loans 1097-IN and 902-IN are fully committed and disbursements have reached
73% and 88% of total loan amounts respectively as of March 31, 1978, which
is slightly ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1978
Credit No. 440 provides US$32.0 million over three years in support
of a lending program for 50,000 units of tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than esti-
mated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date by one year
to June 30, 1978, and to extend the project area to cover the whole State ot
Bihar. The physical targets should be achieved by revised closing date and
disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credit 715 is a continuation nationwide of the previous program of agricul-
tural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart from
initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due to
the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 6, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The US$15.9 million project, co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000 ton capacity bag warehouses envisaged
under the project (as revised) were completed and became operational in 1975.
The construction of five grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after
delays due to cement shortages and is expected to be completed by December
1978. The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain
Storage Study was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating
the proposal for the Second Grain Storage Project which was appraised in
February/March 1977 and approved by the Board on November 15, 1977.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ir
This project provides US$13.0 million to promote the development
of apple processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading
and packing centers, cold storage facilities, a juice processing plant, road
improvements and cableways. The project also includes on-farm cold storage
and oak mushroom production. The main executing agency is the Himachal
Pradesh Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC).



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
The project encountered initial delays due to managerial and technical prob-
lems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome these difficul-
ties. Land is expected to be acquired for all packing and grading sites
by early 1978. The Project Preparation Report for the juice pror,ssing
plant has been completed and found satisfactory, and tenders on the equip-
ment are being called. The road improvement programme is progressing
satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites are also expected to be completed shortly. As a
result of the significant improvement in project implementation during the
past year, disbursements have recently gathered momentum.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1978, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June! 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377 was slow initially and as a consequence
it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date to September 30, 1978
(originally September 30, 1977). However an amount of US$84 million had been
disbursed by the end of March 1978 and the balance of US$1 million should
be disbursed well before the revised Closing Date. Disbursements under
Part A of Credit 604 (US$120 million) have been slow with only US$0.4 mil-
lion disbursed at March 31, 1978. However, contracts aggregating about US$50
million had been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements should now accelerate.
This Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million under Part B to
meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; of this
amount some US$26 million has been committed leaving an amount of US$4 million
for load despatch equipment which should be committed by June 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about 18 months due to longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment and to reflect the current situation
with respect to the use of the Credit proceeds. Under the Sindri project
plant construction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule
except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some
materials. Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978.
The anticipated cost to complete the project is presently running within bud-
get. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change
in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering
contracts. The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as
feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being
ordered, and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed
to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-
projects to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the
above, the project is likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes
training of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and
evaluation of the project's economic impact. As of June 30, 1977, develop-
ment plans had been completed for 48 of the 50 project markets. The remain-
ing 2 are pending land acquisitions. Appraisals and loan sanctions had been
completed for 13 and was in progress for 18 markets. Farmers and traders
served by the 8 market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
activities and improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka
project is improving. As of August 1977, when the project was last reviewed
appraisals for 36 of the 39 project market yard plans had been completed by
participating banks and 25 of these 36 approved by ARDC. Construction is in
progress at 33 markets. In an attempt to accelerate project progress, more
liberal lending terms have been provided to APMCs and Market Intermediaries
(MIs) for construction of shop-cum-godowns. The project is expected to be
completed by the closing date (December 1979) and to achieve its major
objectives of making farm produce marketing more efficient and improving
farmers' terms of trade.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements which have been slow because of initial delays should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1551  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978 (expected);
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 10% of the loan amount
had been authorized by mid-March 1978.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and an unforeseen addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and
it is forecast that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply
of additional water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of
water treatment works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistic-
ally forecast. Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August
1977) has allowed engineering design of the project sewerage components to
proceed, so that completion of construction of these works is now scheduled
for 1980 two years later than originally forecasted. Financial performance
of the project entity is satisfactory and all covenants are being met.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date:  April 10, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases in
project costs, GOI and IDA fiLnalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to
accommodate the project to funding available. It is now expected to be
substantially completed by March 1979. Agreements have been reached on
consultants services and technical assistance, as provided for under the
project.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban ])evelopment Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city.  The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
Of December 18, 1974; Effective Date:  August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date:  July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State.  The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In'Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 310 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 450 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 11, 1978
(expected); Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory. An April 1978 mission which supervised Cr. 720
Periyar Yaigai found that construction of the project commenced in Marchl 1978.
The Public We-ks Department (PWD) has set up a strong construction organization
headed by a Special Chief Engineer in order to complete the project on schedule.
Monitoring of flows in irrigation canals will start in June 1978. A system
operation plan is under preparation and GOTN has appointed a Committee to
study water and water-relate!d charges in Tamil Nadu.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$34.0 million over four years mainly for
minor irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro serv-
ice centers, and support of related government services. Although disburse-
ments have been slower than anticipated there has been a considerable(improve-
ment in project organization and administration during the past six months
and disbursements are expect:ed to improve considerably during the next twelve
months. The physical progress of shallow tubewells, and of deep tubewells
for the Minor Irrigation Corporation is satisfactory. IDA, GOWB and ARDC
are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such as organizational
problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service centers; and
finalization of designs for water distribution systems and irrigation
schemes. Positive results, lparticularly for the water distribution systems
are expected shortly.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 16, 1978 (expected); Closing Date:
June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 6,
1978 (expected); Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects totalling US$63 million finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The project's components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit  of April 1, 1977; Effective Date:  June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers.  It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
proce   smallholder rubber.  Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum.  Pro-
ject actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to ...:ke up for lost time.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Project consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
-hich, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
3w twelve States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time of



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the cumulative
value of contracts entered into or about to be entered into at February 28,
1978 was US$50.32 million leaving an outstanding uncommitted balance of
US$6.68 million. The full amount of the Credit is expected to be committed
by mid 1978 and it should be Eully disbursed by the closing date of
December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production in steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year to
September 30, 1978 in order to complete implementation of the project. Dis-
bursements as of March 31, 19,78 were 85% of the total credit amount.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, -w ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. (Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit.) A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This project supports seed industry expansion in the public and
private sectors; improvements in seed quality control; strengthening of
breeding and seed technology research; and development of a reserve stock
scheme. Institutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly
at the state level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project imple-
mentation, however, slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to
organizational problems. Project progress is now being made since approval
of the project by the new Government in September 1977 and is anticipated
to gain further momentum as GOI is about to appoint the two top officers
of the National Seeds Corporation.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed somewhat because of delays in pro-
curement action. However, contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single
deck and_175 double deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have
been delivered.  Bids for an additional 200 buses are being evaluated.  Civil
works contracts have been awarded for 8 to 15 bus facilities, and 13 of about
traffic engineering schemes.  Delays are expected in implementing some BMC
traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps are
being taken to minimize such delays.  Consultants in organization, adminis-
tration, financial management systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Devel-
opment Authority. The beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corp-
oration and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have selec-
ted consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management assist-
ance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Singrauli project is the first stage of the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in the Gov-
ernnment's program for the development of large Central thermal power stations
feeding power into an interconnected grid. It is proposed that the Bank
Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to
construct and operate these power stations, and the development program has
gotten off to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily and the project is proceeding on schedule with land acquisi-
tion almost complete. Site levelling is in progress and contracts have been
awarded for major plant (turbogenerators, boilers, transformers).
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High COffshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
*                  The project is progressing satisfactorily.  Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and are expected to be commissioned
by May 1978. Bids for well and processing platforms at Bassein have been
received and are under review. Disbursements increased rapidly during March
at US$45.5 million and is expected to keep pace with appraisal estimates.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SEVENTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events.
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Program and project planning is a continuous process
in telecommunications. Fifty professional man years
over the years commencing with formulation in 1977 of
the 1978-83 Telecommunications Plan would be a minimum
estimate.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
Telecommunications Branch, Posts and Telegraphs
Department.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
June 1977. Pre-appraisal in August 1977.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 11, 1978.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
May 17, 1978.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
September 1978
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) -GOI would enter into subsidiary loan agreements with
each of the three factories (ITI, HCL and HTL), under
terms and conditions to be approved by the Bank, as a
condition of effectiveness. The terms would include
an annual interest at 10.25% and a repayment period of
fifteen years including three years' grace (paragraph
73).
(b)  GOI would cause the Telecommunications Branch to take
all measures required to realize an annual rate of return
of not less than 11% (paragraph 55).
(c)  GOI would review the value of the net fixed assets in
operation of the Telecommunications Branch by March 31,
1980, and if necessary adjust the value for purposes
of calculating the rate of return required under
Section 4.03(a) of the Loan Agreement (paragraph 55).
(d) Until the rate of returns are calculated based on
revalued assets, the Telecommunications Branch would
take all measures necessary to produce at least 60% of
the annual capital expenditures of the Branch (para-
graph .55).






INDIA
~~- ~  ~                    TELECOMMUNICATIONS
AFGHANISTAN .2 ~~~~~~~                  2                     Coaxial and Microwave Systems
.....  4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- A    ....
PAKI STAN~~~~~~~         NADAA
UNDERUTANNE
E-. 
(  AULUNDJn ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~r  -
N-I~~~~
*~~~~~~~~~~~ /
(                                                 ANNAND ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
N-'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ 
A P, A,5    Al ~    AA       ARN                      NNUN           ATN~~                                               ORN(
IE~~~~~~~~~~ANA\~                                          ANT   ADN
A         ORD~             JN                                             ''. 
A  \ I *~       ~       DSRLASNKA



