CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1592 IN
Loan Agreement
(Seventh Telecommunications Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 19, 1978


﻿LCAN NUMBER 1592 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1978, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM'NT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part B of the Project will be carried out by Indian
Telephones Industries, Limited (hereinafter called ITI), a
public limited company established under the Borrower's Companies
Act of 1956, as amended, with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ITI
part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) Part C of the Project will be carried out by Hindustan
Cables, Limited (hereinafter called HCL), a public limited
company established under the Borrower's Companies Act of 1956, as
amended, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to HCL part of the
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(D) Part D of the Project will be carried out by Hindustan
Teleprinters, Limited (hereinafter called HTL), a public limited
company established under the Borrower's Companies Act of 1956, as
amended, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to HTL part of the
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, of the one part,
and ITI, HCL and HTL, of the other part;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and


﻿- 2 -
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank, of the one part, and ITI, HCL and HTL, of the other part, of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and
all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements"     mean the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and each of ITI, HCL and HTL
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(c) "P&T" means the Posts and Telegraphs Department of the
Ministry of Communications of the Borrower; and
(d) "Branch" means the Telecommunications Branch of P&T.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
twenty million dollars ($120,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project through P&T with due diligence and efficiency and-in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause ITI, HCL and HTL to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ITI, HCL and HTL to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-4-
(c) The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the
Loan (i) an amount equivalent to ten million three hundred
thousand dollars ($10,300,000) to ITI for carrying out Part B of
the Project, (ii) an amount equivalent to seven million five
hundred thousand dollars ($7,500,000) to HCL for carrying out Part
C of the Project, and (iii) an amount equivalent to two million
two hundred thousand dollars ($2,200,000) to HTL for carrying out
Part D of the Project, under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and each of ITI, HCL and HTL,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Bank, including, inter alia, an interest rate of ten and a quarter
per cent (10-1/4%) per annum and a repayment period of fifteen
years, including a grace period of three years.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan under Part A of the
Project against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan under Part A of the Project to be used exclusively for
said Part of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the


﻿- 5 -
proceeds of the Loan under said Part of the Project, and to
disclose their use in said Part of the Project; (ii) enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in said Part of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of Part A of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Joan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the' benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the


﻿- 6 -
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause P&T to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall have the accounts of the Branch for
each fiscal year cudited annually by the Comptroller and Auditor
General of the -orrower. The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank
for each fiscal year, provisional accounts (balance sheet and
related statement of earnings and expenses) of the Branch not
later than four months after the close of the fiscal year to which
they relate, and within a reasonable time thereafter, certified
copies of the audited statements (balance sheet and related
statement of earnings and expenses) and signed copies of the
auditor's reports relating to said accounts.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Branch to take
all measures required (including the introduction, maintenance and
periodic adjustments of tariffs for telecommunications services)
to realize an annual rate of return of not less than 11% on the
average net value of the Branch's fixed assets in operation.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) the required annual rate of return shall be calcu-
lated by using as the denominator in respect of


﻿-7-
each fiscal year one-half of the sum of the net'
value of the Branch's fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of each such year and
as the numerator the Branch's operating income from
telecommunications services for that same year;
(ii) the term "net value of the Branch's fixed assets in
operation" means the gross value of such assets
less accumulated depreciation, all determined in
accordance with appropriate methods of valuation
and depreciation acceptable to the Bank;
(iii) the term "operating income" means the difference
between:
(A) all operating revenues accruing from telecom-
munications services, excluding subscriber
deposits, interest income and that portion of
receipts which relates to service to be
rendered in future years; and
(B) all operating costs of the telecommunications
services, including administrative expenses,
adequate maintenance and provision for
depreciation on all depreciable assets in
operation, computed in accordance with the
straight-line method at an average rate of not
less than 4-1/2% of the gross value of such
depreciable assets in operation, but excluding
interest and other charges on debt and on the
Borrower's contributions to P&T.
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower and the Bank may other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than March 31, 1980, review or cause to be
reviewed, the value of the net fixed assets in operation of the
Branch to determine whether, because of changes in current prices,
adjustments to such value are required, and shall notify the Bank
of the results of such review for its comments; and
(b) based on the above, and commencing with fiscal year
1981, cause, if necessary, the value of the net fixed assets in
operation of the Branch to be adjusted to the extent agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank for purposes of calculating the
rate of return specified in Section 4.03 (a) of this Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.05. (a) Unless and until the rate of return shall
have been calculated as provided in Section 4.04 of this Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause the Branch to take all measures
necessary to produce each year funds from internal sources equiv-
alent to not less than 60% of the annual capital expenditures of
the Branch, or on the basis of realistic forecasts of such expen-
ditures, during each such year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the terms "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A) the sum of gross revenues from all sources
related to telecommunications operations;
and
(B) the sum of all expenses of operation, includ-
ing maintenance and administration (excluding
depreciation and other non-cash operating
charges), interest and other charges on debt,
repayment of loans (including sinking fund
payments, if any), all taxes or payments in
lieu of taxes, all cash distribution of
surplus and any other cash outflows other than
capital expenditures related to telecommuni-
cations operations; and
(ii) the term "capital expenditures" means all funds
required on account of fixed or capital assets and
for working capital purposes.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall at all times cause its
telecommunications facilities to be operated and maintained and
all necessary renewals and repairs thereof to be made, all in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿-9-
(a) ITI, HCL or HTL shall have failed to perform any cove-
nant, agreement or obligation of ITI, HCL or HTL under the Project
Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ITI, HCL or HTL will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) any law pertaining to the establishment and operations
of ITI, HCL or HTL, or any provision thereof, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of ITI, HCL or HTL
to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth
in the Project Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ITI, HCL or HTL or for the suspension of its operations.
Sec Ion 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a -eriod of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and ITI, HCL or HTL; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly executed on behalf
of ITI, HCL and HTL; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly executed
on behalf of the Borrower and each of ITI, HCL and HTL, respec-
tively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General


﻿- 10 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by ITI, HCL and HTL, and is legally binding upon ITI,
HCL and HTL in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ITI, HCL and HTL
and are legally binding upon the Borrower and ITI, HCL and HTL
in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 18, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                     Telex:
ECOFAIRS                           953-313546
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ J.S. Baijal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) For Part A of the Project:
(Goods to be imported
by P&T)
(a) Local, trunk and telex    22,000,000    )
exchange equipment                     )
(b) Cable line transmis-       2,000,000    )
sion and gas pressur-                  )
ization equipment                      )
(c) Microwave radio equip-     7,500,000    ) 100% of foreign
ment and accessories                   ) expenditures
and PCM cable carriers                 )
and UHF and PCM radio                  )
equipment                              )
(d) Materials and equip-       3,500,000    )
ment for P&T workshops                 )
(e) Laboratory and testing     5,000,000    )
equipment for research,                )
testing and training                   )
(2) For Part A of the Project:
(Goods to be purchased by
P&T from ITI, HCL and HTL)
(a) Telephones, switch-       32,400,000      25%
ing and transmission
equipment manufactured
by ITI


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(b) Cable and wire manu-      27,000,000      36%
factured by HCL
(c) Teleprinters manufac-        600,000      6%
tured by HTL
(3) For Part B of the Project:
(a) Testing and measuring      3,500,000    )
equipment                              )
(b) Production and tool        4,200,000    ) 100% of foreign
room machines                          ) expenditures
(c) Micro-circuit labora-      2,600,000    )
tory and computer                      )
equipment                              )
(4) For Part C of the Project:
(a) Production machines        6,400,000    )
and equipment                          )
) 100% of foreign
(b) Testing and measuring      1,100,000    ) expenditures
equipment                              )
(5) For Part D of the Project:
(a) Production and             1,850,000    )
tool machines                          )
) 100% of foreign
(b) Research and devel-          350,000    ) expenditures
opment, testing and                    )
measuring equipment                    )
TOTAL         120,000,000


﻿- 14-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to assist (a) the Borrower in carrying out
P&T's telecommunications development program covering fiscal years
1979 through 1981, and (b) ITI, HCL and HTL in upgrading and
expanding their manufacturing facilities. The Project consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:   P&T
(1) Provision and installation of about 340,000 lines of
local telephone exchange equipment;
(2) provision and installation of subscribers' cable and
associated equipment which will permit the connection of
about 260,000 new DELs;
(3) provision and installation of about 7,500 long-distance
public call offices in rural areas;
(4) provision and installation of about 38,000 lines of
trunk exchange equipment;
(5) provision and installation of about 2,000 lines of
electronic telex switching equipment;
(6) provision and installation of coaxial cable line trans-
mission equipment, cable pressurization equipment,
microwave and UHF/VHF radio equipment and PCt carrier
systems to upgrade and extend the trunk and junction
network; and
(7) provision and utilization of testing and laboratory
equipment for P&T's Telecommunications Research Center,
Training Center and Technical Development Circle.
Part B:   ITI
(1) provision and installation of production and tool room
machines to replace obsolete machines and upgrade
production facilities and output at the Bangalore and
Naini factories;


﻿- 16 -
(2) provision and installation of modern testing and
measuring equipment at the Bangalore and Naini factories
to improve efficiency and quality of output;
(3) provision and installation of equipment to update and
expand the micro-circuit laboratory at Bangalore; and
(4) provision and installation of new computing facilities
for improved management and production control at
Bangalore.
Part C:   HCL
(1) provision and installation of cable production machines
and plant and testing equipment to replace obsolete
machines and equipment to increase output of:
(a) large size telephone cables from the Rupnarainpur
factory by approximately 40%;
(b) small size jelly-filled distribution cable from
the Hyderabad factory by approximately 100%; and
(c) small diameter coaxial cable from the Rupnarainpur
factory by approximately 100%; and
(2) provision of research and development equipment for work
on optical fiber cable technology.
Part D:   HTL
(1) provision and installation of production and tool room
machines to replace obsolete machines in the production
and tool room units of the Madras factory; and
(2) provision and installation of research and development,
testing and measuring equipment to strengthen HTL's
research and development capability.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 1982
through   January 15, 1998                   3,530,000
On July 15, 1998                                  3,510,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.15%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.25%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.15%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                              6.00%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                              6.75%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.50%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower, ITI, HCL or HTL, as the case
may be, shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible,
and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower, IT1, HCL or HTL, as
the case may be, shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in Part A.1 above:
1.   Contracts for goods to be financed under Category (2) of
paragraph A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement may be procured
directly from ITI, HCL and HTL under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank.
2.   With respect to any contract for the purchase of imported
goods costing $100,000 equivalent or more for the production of
the Category (2) goods, the Borrower shall cause ITI, HCL and
HTL to:
(a) invite offers from not less than three major suppliers
from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland;


﻿- 20 -
(b) award the contract to the supplier whose offer is the
lowest evaluated offer;
(c) keep all records and documents with respect to such
contract, including, without limitation, the details of the offers
sought, the names of the suppliers invited to submit offers, the
analysis of offers, recommendations for award and conformed copies
of such contract, for review by the Bank at its request; and
(d) furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request regarding the per unit cost of the goods
so procured.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods to be procured in
accordance with Part A.1 above and estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower, ITI, HCL or HTL,
as the case may be, shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments,
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower, ITI, HCL or HTL, as the case may be, shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and furnish to
the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower, ITI, HCL or HTL, as the case may be, and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 21 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two confoTmed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower, ITI, HCL or HTL, as the case may be,
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower, ITI, HCL or HTL, as the case may be, and state the reasons
for such determination.


