Report No. 24137
Report No: i060686 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/02/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MEXICO Project ID: P060686
Project: Municipal Development in Rural Areas    Task Team Leader: Julio
Cordoba
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 2, 2002          IBRD Amount ($m): 400.00
Bank Approval: July 9, 2002      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSER     Sector: BD - Decentralization; BI - Institutional
Development; VY - Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Background:   The Bank and the Government of Mexico have collaborated on
developing decentralized approaches to reducing rural poverty in Mexico
since the early 1990s. Beginning in 1991, the Decentralization and
Regional Development Program (DRD) tested and subsequently mainstreamed
mechanisms which have strengthened the authority and capacity of state and
local governments to manage public finance, establish investment
priorities and provide basic small-scale social and productive
infrastructure. Following the success of the first project, DRD I (loan
3310-ME), the Government requested a follow-on operation to further
accelerate the decentralization process, improve the targeting and quality
of state and municipal investment programs, and strengthen state-level
institutions involved in rural development and rural poverty alleviation.
The second project -DRD II (loan 3790-ME)- began implementation in 1995,
continuing through 2000.
The financing of decentralized development in Mexico has also evolved over
the past decade. From 1990 through 1997, Federal budget support for
investments in small-scale municipal infrastructure was executed by a
Federal agency -the present SEDESOL- under the umbrella of the poverty
alleviation strategy. In 1998, a decentralization reform made these funds
available directly to municipalities. While these changes were designed
to better link local-level investment demands with the necessary finance,
they required a level of administrative and managerial expertise which
tested the capacity of municipal governments. To address this, a small
percentage of this funding was made available for municipal institutional
development. Under DRD II, some US$1.7 billion were channeled through
municipal development councils across eight states. These resources were
applied under a community-driven development (CDD) methodology, with local
communities reaching decisions about their investment priorities and
taking part in the implementation of these investments with the support of
Municipal Planning and Development Councils (COPLADEMUN). From 1998
through June 2000, over 107,000 subprojects were implemented.
The proposed Municipal Development in Rural Areas project (DRD III),
builds on the successful experiences of the previous projects. The
project will specifically target rural municipalities in the participating



states, as identified by their level of rural population, current access
to basic infrastructure and other socio-demographic indicators.     In line
with lessons learned from the previous projects, DRD III will work to
consolidate the participatory processes already in place for identifying
and executing local-level investments in rural infrastructure,
strengthening administrative, technical and managerial capacity of
municipal governments in pursuit of these investments, and working with
Federal and State levels of government to construct a framework for
accelerating municipal development.
Project development objectives: The proposed project aims to reduce the
incidence of rural poverty in rural areas of participating states by (i)
supporting investments in basic small-scale social and productive
infrastructure, utilizing a proven effective community-driven development
(CDD) approach, (ii) strengthening municipal administrative and technical
capacity to increase the efficiency of municipal investments, and (iii)
deepening the ongoing decentralization from Federal to the State and
Municipal levels.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The total project cost is US$642.8 million, of which the Bank will finance
US$400.0 million. Component One (Municipal Subprojects, US$545.5 million
or 85 percent of total project cost) would provide matching grants to
rural municipalities to support some 35,000 demand-driven subproject
investments in small-scale social and productive infrastructure. Types of
investments would include, inter alia: water supply and sanitation,
construction of schools, health centers and community development
facilities, waste disposal, rural electrification and rural road
improvement. Under this component, rural communities would determine their
investment priorities and, along with other communities in their
respective municipalities and following a given annual budget envelope,
take part in COPLADEMUNs to select a set of investments for execution.
These Councils would then carry out these subprojects, to which local
communities would also contribute (in cash or in-kind) a minimum of 10
percent toward total subproject cost. Subprojects would be subject to a
cost ceiling of US$50,000 in most cases. Following completion of the
subproject, communities would be responsible for operation and
maintenance.
Component Two (Municipal development and support for decentralization,
US$57.0 million or 9 percent of total project cost) would offer technical
assistance to strengthen the process of decentralization and build a
framework to enhance municipal development. The component would develop a
coordinated approach among the Federal, State and Municipal governments to
foster better managerial practices in dealing with small-scale
infrastructure investment and delivery of services, and better management
of municipal human resources. Among the activities under this component
are: (i) diagnostic studies of existing Federal, State and Municipal
programs and their institutional capacities, (ii) technical assistance to
develop new programs or to improve existing ones, (iii) development of
monitoring capacities, (iv) establishment of coordination agreements
between Federal, State and Municipal entities, (v) pilot studies before
implementation of programs or agreements, (vi) technical assistance to
prepare amendments to laws and regulations referring to municipal issues,
(vii) training of key personnel of the Municipalities, (viii) social
communication, training and social participation promotion to widely
- 2 -



disseminate the objectives and activities under the project; and (ix)
surveys about municipal issues.
Component Three (Project supervision, monitoring and evaluation, US$40.3
million or 6 percent of total project cost) would finance incremental
costs (excluding salaries) of project administration and coordination
including supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation. Given the
decentralized nature of the project, its success will depend on frequent
and intense supervision.
The Government of Mexico will provide counterpart funding of US$188.3
million (29 percent of total project costs), communities would contribute
US$54.5 million, in cash or in-kind (9 percent of total project cost) and
the Bank loan will finance the remaining US$400.0 million (62 percent of
total).
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will focus on rural municipalities in the states of
Guanajuato, Puebla, Veracruz and Zacatecas.     Rural municipalities are
defined as those where either (i) more than 50 percent of the population
lives in localities of 2,500 inhabitants or less or (ii) 30 percent or
more of the population speaks an indigenous language.      In the four
states, there are 344 of the 530 municipalities meeting these criteria (60
percent of total municipalities in the four states), totaling 5.8 million
inhabitants, including almost one million indigenous language speakers.
This population constitutes the prime target group of beneficiaries of
Component One of the project, while the full 15.7 million of inhabitants
in these states are the intended beneficiaries of Component Two.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Category B classification is proposed because no significant
environmental impacts are expected, given the relatively small-scale
nature of the subprojects to be financed.     Environmental screening will
be conducted through simple environmental review procedures based on
pre-established technical standards and included in the project
Operational Manual.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         Yes
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     Yes
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
-3 -



If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The proposed project has been assigned a "B" environmental classification.
All subprojects would be small-scale basic infrastructure works in rural
areas (in most cases, less than US$50,000) and with proper screening and
monitoring would not pose any significant environmental impacts. Under
the DRD II, under which the same cost ceiling applied, the average cost of
subprojects was less than US$15,000.
Most of the intended beneficiary population in about 111 municipalities
of a total of 344 project municipalities consists of indigenous people,
primarily in the states of Puebla and Veracruz. The majority of
indigenous and mestizo population in small rural communities share similar
economic, social and political disadvantages. Concerns about indigenous
and disadvantaged groups have been mainstreamed and addressed by the
project itself.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A, see above.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environmental Assessment
During preparation, a team of environmental specialists visited the
proposed project area to evaluate the municipal environmental management
capacity, consulted stakeholders on environmental issues and evaluated
State and Municipal environmental institutional framework.     The
evaluation made note of the rather formal and perfunctory compliance of
subprojects with existing environmental legal regulations (which in
themselves are minimal and mostly of an administrative content for the
types of subprojects undertaken), and observed that, to enhance the
sustainability of the investments made under the project, additional
issues (i.e., technical, institutional, participatory) should be included
in the project design. Specifically, lessons learned from the DRD II
experience led to the following recommendations:
(i) By extending the existing environmental regulatory framework (e.g.,
the additional tools introduced by this project, as further discussed
below) in the project area, as well as the technical capacity - at the
State and Local level--     environmental screening and analysis of
subprojects can be improved.
-4-



(ii) Project design should incorporate building up the municipal and
community level capacity for screening and    addressing environmental
issues.
(iii) Community capacity to address environmental themes in the operation
and maintenance of subprojects needs to be    enhanced to improve physical
sustainability of these investments and decrease the potential for
environmental   degradation.
(iv) Field assessment of proposed subprojects could be enhanced by
improving the technical guidelines for evaluating    environmental risk
(e.g., type and size of subproject, location, ambient environmental
conditions).
State-level institutions charged with environmental management are in
place and the existing capacity at the municipal level to screen
subprojects for environmental impact is sufficient for compliance with
present norms, which require sketches of sites to be presented to state
authorities.   These authorities then screen the technical files of all
proposed subprojects and determine any additional technical analyses and
validations needed before clearing the subprojects for execution. For the
enhanced environmental screening and management proposed by this project,
these capacities will be further developed and strengthened through
Component Two.    Specifically, under the proposed project, this screening
capacity will be enhanced through support of training and
capacity-building to deepen the STUs' abilities to assess any significant
environmental impact resulting from subproject investments.     Similar
activities, targeted to the municipalities, will improve environmental
awareness of the COPLADEMUNs and their capacity to screen for
environmental impacts both in subprojects financed under the project and
also in other municipal-level public works. The environmental screening
criteria will be strengthened through the introduction of additional
diagnostic tools in the project Operational Manual (e.g., an environmental
data sheet, environmental checklist, technical guidelines for subproject
design and implementation, mitigation measures, enhanced negative list).
These tools would contribute to improved coordination between municipal,
state and federal levels. Component Two of the project would also support
studies to assess the viability and manner in which these tools could be
mainstreamed into existing legislation at the State level.
The project will finance the development of manuals and brochures, as part
of the state-level information campaigns, to be made available to
potential beneficiaries, through the COPLADEMUNs, to raise their
environmental awareness and engage them proactively on environmental
issues, both in screening of proposed subprojects and in supervision of
their implementation. The project Operational Manual summarizes all
environmental laws and legislation applicable in all the participating
states.   It also contains an Environmental Checklist for the purposes of
screening subprojects in order to ensure that environmental consequences
and impacts are properly identified and adequate measures are included in
the subproject design. The Operational Manual also contains a negative
list, updated where necessary from that list used under the DRD II,
specifying those subprojects which would be ineligible for financing.
Additionally, for subprojects with any need for environmental mitigation,
standard project designs have been developed (e.g., sanitation).
- 5 -



Indigenous Peoples
Experience under the DRD II verifies that the tested project design, using
a CDD approach, has been successful in achieving the broad inclusion of
all social groups within targeted municipalities, including women and
minority groups. The municipal councils - COPLADEMUNs - have proven to be
both representative and transparent bodies through which communities and
municipal representatives can examine and prioritize proposals for
investment in basic social and productive infrastructure.     Under the
proposed project, this continued level of broad inclusion would be ensured
through equitable access to project rules and information under the
information campaign.     The information campaign is being designed to
ensure that all potential beneficiaries, including minority groups can
have access to the project. The design of the information campaign for
the project incorporates culturally appropriate media to effectively
convey project guidelines and stimulate the wide involvement of all
citizenry within the municipality. Completion of the preparation of the
information campaign, satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of Loan
effectiveness.
The COPLADEMUNs, at the municipal level, constitute an ample forum for
local participation, given their composition. Some 70 percent of those
participating are representatives of potential project beneficiaries, with
voting power in regard to decision-making on, among other things,
subproject investments. The remaining 30 percent -- key municipal-level
government officials, selected public sector agencies and other
representatives of civil society organizations.    The level of
representation within the COPLADEMUN ensures that those decisions reached
by the council are indeed the product of local consensus and consultation
and bear the mark of those who are intended to benefit from the project.
The proposed project does not foresee any relocation of populations nor
modification of property rights and its flexible, decentralized approach
accommodates the diverse indigenous communities' participatory mechanisms,
forms of organization and respective cultures. Indigenous and mestizo
populations in small rural communities tend to share similar economic,
social and political disadvantages. Concerns about indigenous and
disadvantaged groups have been mainstreamed and are addressed by the
project mechanisms. Legal framework flexibility and appropriate
participatory mechanisms, supported by social communication, training and
social participation promotion, create the operational context for
indigenous peoples' participation with respect for their diverse cultures,
organizations and customs.
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
The project will support the definition of socio-cultural strategies at
the municipal level. The strategies will help communities to make
consistent use of municipal investments and programs to pursue their
specific social, ethnic and cultural goals. The main device to start the
preparation of these strategies are autodiagn6sticos (self-evaluations),
conducted by the COPLADEMUNs. The methodological instruments for the
autodiagnosticos would include sections to address the identification of
ethnic, linguistic, and cultural traits.
- 6-



Capacities required to perform this planning function already exist in
Municipalities, STUs and CEDEMUN, and will be strengthened through
Component Two over the life of the project. To start the process, the
immediate strengthening of capacities will come from hiring external
support, with funds allocated through Component Two.
CEDEMUN will play a key role initially in guiding the development of
standardized tools and a viable methodology which could then be
implemented in each municipality. For this purpose, CEDEMUN will deploy
the services of specialists in socio-cultural assessment (e.g.,
anthropologists, sociologists) in order to (i) bring sufficient rigor to
the overall exercise and (ii) ensure that culturally appropriate
mechanisms are incorporated into the diagnostic kit to effectively reach
the expected diversity in the project municipalities. Development of the
diagnostic kit would also entail an ongoing dialogue with the COPLADEMUNs
throughout the four states, to encourage a strong "buy-in" to the exercise
and its intended product. Once developed, the diagnostic kit would become
part of the project Operational Manual. Terms of Reference for the
development of the diagnostic kit would be prepared by CEDEMUN and
reviewed by the Bank prior to negotiations.
Subsequent to the development of the socio-cultural diagnostic kit, a
series of intensive training activities would be conducted to properly
equip both STU personnel and representatives of COPLADEMUNs in the
elaboration of the municipal autodiagn6sticos. Given the extensive
geographic coverage of the project, as well as the overall aim of
strengthening federalism in Mexico, a "training of trainers" approach
would be pursued. Under this approach, CEDEMUN would instruct selected STU
personnel in the proper deployment of the diagnostic kit at the municipal
level; then, STU staff would, in turn, carry out training activities with
the COPLADEMUNs in their respective states. As stated earlier, the
autodiagn6sticos would detail the specific socio-cultural characteristics
of the municipality and provide inputs toward defining the basic needs at
the community level. To this end, given that the COPLADEMUN is itself a
representative council of community-level constituents, it is expected
that these local-level representative will each play a strong role in
consulting, identifying and expressing community basic needs in the
COPLADEMUN and as part of the overall process of elaborating the
autodiagn6sticos.
Once completed, the autodiagn6stico would be used by the COPLADEMUN to
formulate Planes de Gesti6n Social (Social Action Plans). The formulation
of these plans would be the responsibility of the COPLADEMUN, with
guidance and technical assistance provided for its completion through the
STU and other civil society organizations. At a minimum, the Social Plans
would detail the actions and activities required to address the demands
identified in the autodiagn6stico, specify those responsible for carrying
out these activities, identify a timeframe for their completion, and
stipulate the sources of additional resources (e.g., finance) that may be
necessary for their attainment. The communication of the Social Action
Plan will rely on culturally appropriate media for reaching all elements
of municipal society (e.g., indigenous radio broadcasts, interpretation
facilities for municipal-level meetings, etc.)    Throughout this process,
intense and frequent Bank supervision will be crucial in order to ensure
the success of the approach.
-7-



II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders include (i) potential project beneficiaries, who inhabit
rural municipalities of the participating states, (ii) representatives of
civil society-at-large and (iii) public sector agencies charged with
project oversight and coordination. Community associations and COPLADEMUNs
- both of which encompass broad representation of interested stakeholders
- are the primary instruments for subproject prioritization and subsequent
execution. These entities have been quite successful in achieving a broad
consensus on local investment decisions under the DRD II. An information
campaign (satisfactory to the Bank) will orient potential beneficiaries on
the implementation arrangements under the project.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     Not Available   3/21/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 5/2/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop  5/2/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:  Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank     4/24/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 5/2/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop  5/2/2002
Pest Management Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:     Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
-8-



Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Julio Cordoba   05/02/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Jorge Franco/Person/World Bank   05/02/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Ricardo F. Hernandez-Rosas/Person/World Bank
05/02/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         George Ledec     05/02/02
Sector Manager/Director:         John Redwood     05/02/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-9-



