                                            Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                  Report No: 31467




                                 PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE

                                                ON A

                                               LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$400 MILLION

                                              TO THE

                                   UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                               FOR A

                 MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT IN RURAL AREAS PROJECT
                                         (LOAN 71330-MX)

                                          January 28, 2005




Latin America and Caribbean Region
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective: January 18, 2005)


           Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                  Peso 1 = US$0.089
                  US$ 1 = Pesos 11.235




                     FISCAL YEAR
              January 1     ­   December 31




        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


DRD             Decentralization and Regional Development
INAFED          Institute for Municipal Development
SEDESOL         Social Development Secretariat




          Vice President:      Pamela Cox
        Country Director:      Isabel Guerrero
         Sector Director:      John Redwood
       Task Team Leader:       Harideep Singh

                                 PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
                                                 MEXICO
                 MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT IN RURAL AREAS PROJECT
                                (Loan 71330-MX; Project ID: P060686)

                                         A. KEY LOAN DATA

                                     Loan Amount: US$400 million
                                  Board Approval Date: July 16, 2002
                                   Signing Date: September 30, 2002
                                   Closing Date: December 31, 2006
                         Original Effectiveness Deadline: December 31, 2002
                                   Effectiveness Date: June 30, 2003

Following effectiveness, the Bank deducted US$4 million towards the Front-end Fee. Project
implementation could not commence due to: (a) problems relating to maintaining a national project
coordination agency for this multi-state project, resulting mainly from inadequate budgetary
allocation to the agency for project management related expenditures; and (b) less than adequate
commitment of the four participating states, resulting mainly from no additional over-the-budget
allocation to the states for the project activities. After almost a year of unsuccessful effort to revive
the project, the Government of Mexico requested a cancellation of the remaining US$396 million of
the loan. This was effected by the Bank on September 14, 2004.

                                          B. BACKGROUND

1.      Bank operations in Mexico on decentralization. The Bank and the Government of Mexico
have collaborated on developing decentralized approaches to reducing rural poverty in Mexico since
the early 1990s. Beginning in 1991, the Decentralization and Regional Development Projects
(DRD) tested and subsequently mainstreamed mechanisms which have strengthened the capacity of
state and local governments to manage public finance, establish investment priorities and provide
basic small-scale social and productive infrastructure. Following the successful completion of the
first DRD project in 1994, the Government requested a follow-on operation to further accelerate the
decentralization process, improve the targeting and quality of state and municipal investment
programs, and strengthen state-level institutions involved in rural development and rural poverty
alleviation. The second project, DRD II, began implementation in 1995, and continued through to
2000. Project resources were applied under a community-driven development approach, with local
communities reaching decisions about their investment priorities and taking part in the
implementation of these investments with the support of municipalities.

2.      From 1990 through 1997, federal budget support for investments in small-scale municipal
level social and productive infrastructure was routed to the states and municipalities through a
federal agency (Federal Secretary for Social Development ­ SEDESOL) under the auspices of the
national poverty alleviation strategy. This offered several advantages, notably: (a) securing state
commitment to the project requirements, including eligibility criteria for participation of select
municipalities and selection of sub-projects; (b) facilitating central coordination and management
yielding better reporting and documentation for disbursement; and (c) permitting unified
implementation processes across participating states and municipalities participating.

3.      Amendment to the Fiscal Coordination Law to further decentralization. In 1998, midway
through the implementation of DRD II, funds earlier routed through the federal agency to the states
and municipalities were brought within the ambit of the Fiscal Coordination Law. This
decentralization reform had the following key implications: (a) There was no federal department
responsible for municipal investments (as was SEDESOL before the amendment to the Law). The
federal government transferred resources to municipalities without the intervention of a federal
agency, based on defined formula to allocate these funds at the state and the municipality level, as
well as earmarking them for the broad purposes identified under the law. (b) The earlier national
program with a unique Operational Manual under DRD II was replaced with as many programs as
there were municipalities, each one with full autonomy to make its own decisions, following general

guidelines stated in the law. (c) State governments, that had a limited role under DRD II, became
the focal points for issuing guidelines and exercising control over technical features of investments,
while the state legislature took over the auditing role.

4.      The law permitted municipalities to make investments in broadly identified basic rural
infrastructure. It also allowed municipalities to spend up to 2% of the funds on institutional
development and capacity building activities as agreed with the state government, and another 3% to
cover indirect administrative expenditures associated with these investments.

5.      The law also defined some key policies to be mandatorily followed by states and
municipalities which would ensure: (a) participatory processes in defining destination of resources
and surveillance over their actual use, as well as participation in programming, executing,
controlling, monitoring and evaluating each sub-project implemented; (b) transparency in reporting
and sharing program information; and (c) sustainable development, compatible with preservation of
the environment.

                            C. FEATURES OF THE DRD III PROJECT

6.      The Municipal Development in Rural Areas project (DRD III) built on the successful
experiences of the previous projects. The project was to specifically target rural municipalities in the
four participating states (Guanajato, Puebla, Veracruz and Zacatecas). In line with lessons learned
from the previous projects, DRD III was expected to consolidate the participatory processes already
in place for identifying and executing local-level investments in rural infrastructure, strengthening
administrative, technical and managerial capacity of municipal governments in pursuit of these
investments, and working with federal and state governments to construct a framework for
accelerating municipal development.

7.      The project was in line with the Mexico Country Assistance Strategy, as it supported
consolidation of the municipality as a focal point for decentralized participatory decision-making
and supported the continuation of a community-driven development approach to the provision of
basic small-scale social and productive infrastructure. It also sought to strengthen the existing
municipal management capacity in participatory planning, technical assessment of subprojects,
enhancing project monitoring and evaluation, and forging an institutional memory through greater
professionalization of key personnel at the municipal level.

8.      Project Development Objectives. The project sought to reduce the incidence of poverty in
rural areas of participating states by: (i) supporting investments in basic small-scale social and
productive infrastructure, utilizing a proven effective community-driven development approach; (ii)
strengthening municipal administrative and technical capacity to increase the efficiency of municipal
investments; and (iii) deepening the ongoing decentralization from Federal to the State and
Municipal levels.

9.      Project Components. The total project cost was US$633.4 million, of which the Bank was to
finance US$400.0 million. The project had three main components:

(a) Component I: Municipal Sub-projects (82% of total project cost) would provide matching grants
to rural municipalities to support some 35,000 demand-driven subproject investments in small-scale
social and productive infrastructure. Under this component, rural communities would determine their
investment priorities and, along with other communities in their respective municipalities and
following a given annual budget envelope, take part in the planning discussions to select a set of
investments for execution. These municipalities would then carry out these investments to which
local communities would also contribute (in cash or in-kind) a minimum of 10 percent toward total
subproject cost. The project limited assistance to eligible municipalities, and required specific
criteria to be met for sub-projects to be eligible for Bank financing, including being consistent with
actions indicated in Indigenous Peoples Development Plans (to be specially prepared under the
project), and compliant with environmental screening criteria.

(b) Component II: Municipal Development and Support for Decentralization (9% of total project
cost) would offer technical assistance to strengthen the process of decentralization and build a
framework to enhance municipal development. The component would develop a coordinated
approach among the Federal, State and Municipal governments to foster better managerial practices
in dealing with small-scale infrastructure investment and delivery of services, and better
management of municipal human resources.

(c) Component III: Project Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation (9% of total project cost) would
finance incremental costs (excluding salaries) of project administration and coordination including
supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation. Each state was required to establish a Technical
Unit to carry out the following: (a) review community sub-project proposals for compliance with
project guidelines and eligibility criteria in the project Operational Manual; (b) supervise the
planning and development department of the municipalities to ensure quality of sub-project
implementation and provide sufficient training support to communities; (c) provide technical
assistance to all identified agencies (including training on subproject implementation, contracting
options, operations, and financial management);(d) prepare an annual operating plan for the project
activities in the state and submit to the municipal planning and development department; (e) train
municipalities in conducting diagnostic profiles and development and execution of Social Action
Plans; (f) monitor performance through the Management Information System, and periodically
report progress to municipalities; (g) prepare annual implementation and physical performance
reviews; (h) submit required sub-project documentation for preparation of Statements of Expenditure
to be submitted to the Bank; and (i) conduct a statewide project information dissemination to
increase awareness, transparency and participation in the program.

                  D. REASONS FOR CANCELLATION OF THE DRD III LOAN

10.     There are two main factors which led to the cancellation of the DRD III loan: (a) lack of a
national project coordination unit; and (b) poor state commitment. These issues could not be
satisfactorily resolved and continued to jeopardize the project for almost two years since signing in
September 2002. At the Country Portfolio Performance Review discussions in June 2004, it was
agreed that the Government of Mexico would seek a cancellation of the remaining Loan. This
request was received on September 14, 2004, and the remaining loan of US$396 million was
cancelled as of this date. These two factors are discussed below.

11.     Issues relating to the national project coordination unit. The Loan Agreement was signed on
September 30, 2002. Due to non-allocation of funds to it, the national project coordination agency
(INAFED) did not sign the Implementation Letter. Only after a token allocation was made by the
Secretariat of Finance did INAFED sign the letter in December 2002. The Secretariat of Finance
initiated efforts to comply with the effectiveness conditions by: (a) getting one of the four
participating states to endorse the project by signing an agreement with INAFED; (b) establishing a
Technical Unit; and (c) preparing an Information Dissemination Plan. It succeeded, after
considerable difficulty, with the State of Guanajuato, and the project was declared effective on June
30, 2003.

12.     Fund allocation to INAFED, however, continued to be an issue. Finally in October 2003, it
declined to function as the national project coordination unit. The Secretariat of Finance,
Government of Mexico tried alternative institutions, including SEDESOL (DRD II implementing
agency), to take on the project as the national project coordination unit. Its efforts did not meet with
any success, due partly to the situation of direct releases of federal funds to the states/municipalities
which seriously diluted the authority of a national coordinating agency over the states, and partly to
the history of inadequate fund allocation to such agency by the Secretariat of Finance. The project
continued not having a nodal agency.

13.     Issues relating to poor state commitment. DRD II closed on June 30, 2000. Between then
and September 30, 2002 (signing of DRD III), the municipal investments program continued to be
implemented by the states and the municipalities, with automatic funds transfer from the federal
government budget to the municipalities based on the agreed formula, applicable to all

municipalities, following the existing processes for sub-project selection, and complying with the
already state-established reporting, accounting and auditing procedures.

14.     The general perception is that the states were disenchanted with DRD II process
requirements. Some of these processes included the following: (a) some implementation procedures
required by the Bank which went beyond the technical capacity of many smaller municipalities; (b)
the additional selection criteria for sub-projects, which increased the administrative and the review
burden of the municipalities during implementation, and created some difficulties in translating
expenditure of funds into Bank disbursement; (c) exclusion of some municipalities based on
economic status, and limiting the amount of funds that could be invested in the seat of the
municipality; and (d) requirements relating to reporting, submission of documentation for project
disbursements, and audits. These processes and procedures either continued to feature, or were
intensified, under DRD III.

15.     While these processes and procedures seemed appropriate from the Bank's perspective in
terms of ensuring the coverage to the neediest areas and effective financial management, the states
and municipalities felt obligated to fulfill a number of additional requirements for a program already
being implemented by them without the project really offering them any "additionality" in terms of
funds under Component I of the project. The perception at the state level was that they had no
incentive to bear the incremental transaction costs associated with the Bank's sub-project selection
process, compliance with safeguard policies, financial management and disbursement procedures
since they would have access to the same amount of resources with or without Bank financing. For
them, this was an avoidable additional burden in the context of an already on-going program.

16.     The states were also required to establish a Technical Unit to perform an array of activities
(listed in paragraph 9(c)), expenditures for which would be funded under Component III of the
project. The new law allowed the states to use up to 3% of the funds for this purpose. The states did
not see any significant financial incentive being offered by the project in this area. In addition, the
state units established under DRD II had already been disbanded. None of the states wanted to carry
out all of these functions, perceived to be very cumbersome, separately for the project.

17.     Given the poor performance of the institutional development component in DRD II
(inadequate allocation of funds by the federal government to SEDESOL), there was no assurance
that capacity building at the state or municipality level under Component II of the project would
indeed take place. The new law also permitted the municipalities to use 2% of the funds for capacity
building at their level. The states did not see any significant financial incentive being offered by the
project in this area too.

18.     Guanajuato, the state which signed the agreement with INAFED, showed no haste in
implementing the project, and the remaining three states showed no inclination to even sign the
agreement.

                                   E. SOME LESSONS LEARNED

19.     Where there is no additionality of funds and project implementation implies significantly
increased transaction costs from the perspective of the key implementation actors, a reasonable
incentive framework must be explicitly included in project design to overcome the risk that such
costs may not be accepted, and project implementation could suffer.

20.     Projects that finance small, demand-driven community sub-projects through decentralized
implementation structures should simplify financial management processes, especially those related
to the validation of disbursements and expenditures, and translation of these expenditures into Bank
disbursement. The project used the more rigorous methodology of expenditure reimbursement.
Simplified financial management processes, which are now available, should resolve this issue in
future projects with community-driven small-scale investment sub-projects.

21.     Where an implementing agency is already involved with investments under an on-going
government-financed program (with relatively liberal requirements), the Bank should steer clear

from financing a part of such program under the non-additionality scenario, with relatively stringent
requirements and additional transaction costs, when compared with the non-Bank financed portion
of the program. A better approach would be using the Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp) modality,
financing a smaller percentage of the whole program, agreeing on procedures that are consistent with
normal country approaches, while also meeting the information/reporting requirements of the Bank
and other stakeholders, which would focus on outputs and outcomes instead of individual
transactions.

