Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23933-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF USS400.0 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT IN RURAL AREAS PROJECT
June 20, 2002
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 15, 2002)
Currency Unit         Mexican Peso
$1.00        US$8.95
US$1.00    =     $0.11
FISCAL 'f EA
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CDD                        Community-driven Development
CEDEM1JN                   National Center for Municipal Development
COPLADEMUN                 Municipal Planning and Development Council
CAN                        Nation W¶t.e Cnmm.cc,on
DRD                        Decentralizaton and Regional Development Program
MSIF                       Municipal Fund for Social Infiastructure
FPCU                       Federal Project Coordination Unit
GOM                        Govermment of Mexico
iLS                        ildignoius Language Spe akers
INDESOL                    Social Development Institute
lNEGI                      National Institute for Statistics, Geography and Inforxnatics
IPDP                       Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
LCS                        Least Cost Selection
MiS                        Management Infornation System
NAFIN                      Nacional Financiera
PRONASOL                   National Solidarity Program
O&M                        Operation and Maintenance
QCBS                       Quality Cost-based Selection
SEGOB                      Federal Secretary of Government Coordination
SEDESOL                    Federal Secretary of Social Development
SHCP                       Federal Secretary of Finance
SIL                        Specific Investment Loan
SOEs                       State of Expenditures
STU                        State Technical Unit
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:  Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director (Acting):  Maria Teresa Serra
Sector Leadens:  Adolfo Brizzi, Matthew McMahon
Task Team Leader:  Julio Cordoba



CONTENTS
Project  Financing  Data  ...............  ......... .. ..   ... .....  ........ .... ............   ......I
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators.2. .......  .......... . 
.t Stratpi C ntext
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project ............... . . .........3..............
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy...............................................
3 Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ....................5.. .
Jr ujn LPeL.E IltIU U..huiiiiiiaJ Y
I Project components ............. ...................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reformns supported by the project ..7...  . ....................
3. Benefits and target populationu.7..  ..          .. . .         ................
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .....................8...... .... .. ...........
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................. . . .............  10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .....ii...... . ...... ..  ...  II
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ........ ..... ... ............ .......  12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................ .... ...1.........2. 12
E. Summary Project Analyses
I. Economic .     ....................       ...........................................  12
2. Financial              ..12
3 Technical ...... .        ............................................................  13
4 Institutional              ..13
5. Environmental assessment ....................     .13
6. Social ........... ....................                                            15
7. Safeguard Policies .. . ....................                                       17
F. Sustainability and Risks
I Sustainability ..........................          ....................            19
2 Cnrica.ec ....
3. Possible controversial aspects ...... ..   ...................................................  21
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions .......... ....... . ................................. ..... ..........  21
H. Compliance with Bank Policies .21



Annexes
Annex 1.       Project Design Summary
Annex 2.       Evaluation of Decentralization and Regional Development in Mexico
Annex 3.       Detailed Project Description
Annex 4.       Estimated Project Costs
A rL-rex c.Econorri.C A .alyS.S
Annex 6.       Financial Summary
Annex 7.       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex S.       Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9.       Docwnents in the Project File
Annex 10.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex I1.      Country at a Glance
Annex 12.      Social Assessment and Indigenous Peoples Developrnent Plan
Annex 13.      Environmental Analysis



Mexico
Municipal Development in Rum! Areas Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and C aribbean Region
Mexico Country Management Unit
Date: Junle Bu  uuz                                 I USK m caIa I t uer. iurIn uuru_uoa_         _
Countr Director. Olivier Lafourcade                Sector Director (Actinp : Maria Teresa Serra
iProject ID: 060686           Sector: Agricultr     Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation
Lcnding Instrument. Specific Investment Loan {SIL  ProIa f ared Intervention:                     Y es I    No
Project Financing Data                  [XI Loan         [   Credit       G] Guarantee        [  Other [Specifyl
Amount (USSm). 400.0
Proposed terms:                            [ ]  Multicurrency       [XI Single currency, USS
Grace period (years): 5            [XI Standard Variable     I I Fixed             I I    lIBOR-based
Yea to matrity: 15
Commitnent fee: 0.85% on undisbursed balances, beginning 60 days after signing and to year 4, and 0.75% afterwards
Service charge: 1%
Financing plan (USSm):
Goverment of Mexico (29!%)                                             182.7                  0.0           182.7
Beneficiary Community Associations (8%)                                 50.7                  0.0           50.7
IBRD (63%)                                                             270.1                129.9          400.0
Totai                503.5                129.9           63.4
Borrower: United Mexican States
Responsible agency-
*   National Center for Municipal Development (CEDEMUN)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/SM):     ZQQi     2004   2005     2006      2007
Annual:         95.0   113.0   104.8    65.2      22.0
Cumulative:         95.0   208.0  312.8    378.0     400.0
* Includes retroactive fiancing of up to USS40.0 million for eligible expenditures incurred after March 1, 2002 but not earlier than
12 months before loan signing.
Expected Effectiveness Date: December 31, 2002                                     Closing Date: December 31, 20061



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators:
Background:  The Bank and the Govemment of Mexico have collaborated on developing decentralized
approaches to reducing rural poverty in Mexico since the early 1990s.  Beginning in 1991, the
Decentralization and Regional Development Projects (DRD) tested and subsequently mainstreamed
mechanisms which have strengthened the authonty and capacity of state and local governments to manage
public finance, establish investment priorities and provide basic small-scale social and productive
infrastructure Following the success of the frst project DRD I (Ln 3310-ME), the Govemment requested a
follow-on operation to further accelerate the decentralization process, improve the targeting and quality of
state and municipal investment programs, and strengthen state-level institutions involved in rural
development and rural poverty alleviation. The second project -DRD 11 (Ln 3790-ME)- began
imnlpmPntntinn tn IQQQ  rnntinmaing thrntioh 20fl
The financing of decentralized development in Mexico has also evolved over the past decade. From 1990
through 1997, Federal budget support for investments in small-scale municipal infrastructure was executed
by a Federal agency -the present SEDESOL- under the umbrella of the national poverty alleviation strategy.
In 1998, a decentralization reform made these funds available directly to municipalities. While these changes
were designed to better link local-level investment demands with the necessary finance, they required a level
of administrative and managerial expertise which tested the capacity of municipal governments To address
this, a small percentage of this funding was made available for municipal institutional development Under
DRD 11, some US$700 million were channeled through municipal development councils across eight states.
These resources were applied under a communitv-driven development (CDD) methodology, with local
communities reaching decisions about their investment pnorities and taking part in the implementation of
these investments with the support of Municipal Planning and Development Councils (COPLADEMUN).
From 1995 through June 2000, over 107,000 subprojects were implemented.
The proposed Municipal Development in Rural Areas project (DRD 111) builds on the successful experiences
of the previous projects. The project will specifically target rural municipalitLes in the participating states, as
identified by their level of rural population, current access to basic infrastructure and other socio-
demographic indicators (see Annex 3 for more details).  In line with lessons learned from the previous
projects, DRD Ill will work to consolidate the participatory processes already in place for identifying and
executing local-level investments in rural infrastructure, strengthening administrative, technical and
managerial capacity of municipal governments in pursuit of these investments, and working with Federal and
State levels of govenument to construct a framework for accelerating municipal development.
Project development objectives: The proposed project aims to reduce the incidence of rural poverty in rural
nwnc of rticipating states by (i} supporting investments in basic small-scale social and productive
infrastructure, utilizing a proven effective community-driven development (CDD) approach, (ii)
strengthening municipal administrative and technical capacity to increase the efficiency of municipal
investments, and (iii) deepening the ongoing decentralization from Federal to the State and Municipal levels.
ncy perjurmwrnrce uaeaI.us.ara.
*   Number of subprojects implemented:
*   Number of municipalities reached;
*   Percentage of inhabitants with access to basic rural infrastructure;
*   Percentage of inter-municipal infrastructure investments (as percent of total); and
*   Number of Municipal Planning and Development Councils trained in improved management and
administrative practices



Pae 3
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number:                                           Date of latest CAS discussion:
R2002-73 (IFCIR2002-55)                                                       May 16,2002
'Me .' AC iderJnites thres ce tnhemes for Bflkasist- rce. to Mexico, nn ey: (i' socnia rtnoih, (ii)
removing obstacles to sustainable growth and (ill) effective public governance. The CAS places strong
emphasis on the rural sector, where the incidence of poverty is highest. The proposed project is in line with
the CAS, as it supports consolidation of the municipality as a focal point for decentralized participatory
decision-making and supports the continuation of a CDD approach to the provision of basic small-scale
sociai and produciive infirstructure. it wiii aiso strengithen existing municipal management capacity in
participatory planning, technical assessment of subprojects, enhancing project monitoring and evaluation,
and forging an institutional memory through greater professionalization of key personnel at the municipal
level.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Rural poverty Mexico has a GNP per capita of USS5,480 (2000). Many of its social indicators are positive.
Average life expectancy at birth is 75.3 years, adult illiteracy is just 9.5 percent, and primary school
enrollment is at almost 100 percent for the relevant age group. Almost three-quarters of Mexico's 99.6
milliun people ;ive ini -aurumi ac-, and 83 percerit have access io L eC waiLer. Bui pJUvfY pCe3IB wiul 1.1
percent of the population -or 27.6 million people - classified as poor, according to 2000 consumption
measures Many of the achievements toward poverty reduction from the mid-1980s were wiped out by the
1994-95 currency devaluation crisis. Rural poverty is particularly acute. Of the 25.9 million Mexicans living
m rural areas (i e., localities of less than 2,500 inhabitants), 37% of households live on less than US$1 per
day.
Persistently high poverty rates represent one of the most compelling challenges to the well-being of the rural
populations If left unattended, it is also an issue that is likely to threaten the social balance of Mexican
society by polarizing the economy and the development agenda. The pervasiveness of such high poverty
10es, es;~.Ial  am.ongI *    4 1opuaiLLoLns~IL, LUiOO .ssues~ ofZ ec;ui.9J, so.a   i.nLus.Ion, and access to
productive factors and assets.
Some very important trends have strengthened over the past decade In particular, the progressive integration
of the ejido sector into non-farm activities has increased This trend has accelerated after the devaluation of
1994, which has made migration towards the United States much more attractive. In 1997, 60% of all
households participated in off-farm activities, more than 80% had at least one family member residing
outside the comtmunity, and 45% had at least one family member who migrated to the US It is to be noted,
however, that complete out-migration from the community is relatively rare and small-holders keep their
roots in the region
To address these issues, there have been different policies and approaches Most ofthe reform process in the
sector and subsequent policies and programs have, at least initially, been carried out nationally and
homogeneously, without much considertion for the extreme regional diversity and income disparity
characterizing the rural sector:
*   The "AAizanza para ei Campo"' program (I996), is a major Government effort in trying to catch-up
with years of progressive "de-capitalization" of the sector, through a matching-grant approach to
finance productive investments.
* Research efforts have been privatized and decentralized to the State level through foundations,
mnostly comrnposed oF L' IMA-1AM  ori-gn.izaon-s, w-hich    --A.,:r. proA;is !--.sirsee  .°s  .
111P313 LJEEjJ'J'"J  lL  wiitia UE~iLLUL EE3  VVIEIdEUCLQIEIRIWI piJiui iiLa GnIu UIJiC'.L icacwcu%ii IIUSGaIfll
in a demand-drven way. Although the approach has significantly increased the accountability of
research, the public good element related to the need of maintaining some strategic research
programs of national interest or the need to address technology improvement for the small and poor
farrners, has largely been lost;



Page 4
*   The provision of irrigation infrastructure has been an area of heavy Govemment investments over
the past years. Indeed, the trrigation sector is one of the driving forces behind an agncultural growth
and competitiveness strategy in Mexico Most federal investments have been in medium and larRe-
scale irrigation and dramage works in central and northem Mexico by the CNA This was also
accompanied by a major and successful program of transfer of the Imgation Districts to water users
associations, allowing greatly improved operations and maintenance
*   Providing basic infrastructure services can have a direct impact on the well-being of the rural
families and on the development of rural areas. There is evidence that the availability of clean water,
sewage, electrification, rural roads, telecommunication, schools and health centers, in rendering
rural areas more attractive, have a mutual cumulative effect on local growth and non-agncultural
actvities. The remarkable diversification of the Mexican rural sector outside agriculture and the
importance of non-farm employment, renders the difference between the rural and urban sectors
blurred.
Decentralzzation: Decentralization and regional development are at the core of ongoing development
discussions in Mexico Since 1995, reforns have modified the electoral system, administrative controls and
the fiscal and budgetary systems, thereby paving the path for major political changes. Mexico is evolving
from a de facto centralized model, towards a new order, charactenzed by the accelerated transfer of
responsibilities and resources from former federally-led programs to state and municipal governments.
However, this decentralization process is occurring without an explicit strategy, causing a disconnect
between acquired responsibilities and existing capacities in many municipalities. The actual deficits in
canacities are not addressed systematicallyv leaving all 'I Utatet and 2,427 mnvnicipalitis on their on   to
solve these issues.
The institutional efficiency of rural development should be seen in the context of two parallel and mutually
re-enforcing processes that accelerated m Mexico during the last administration: decentralization and
democratzation. Two such moves affecting the rural sector have been the decentralization ("federalizaci6n")
of the Alianza para el Campo program at the State level in 1996, and the decentralization of the Social
Infrastructure Fund Program to the municipal level in 1998, through the creation of a new formula-driven
line item of the budget based on poverty indicators (the Ramo 33). Also, the recent reform of Art 1 15 of the
Constitution is likely to increase opportunities and incentives for municipalities to participate in local
development through inter-municiDal associations so as to improve the provision of local public services-
The main debate on the institutionality of rural development has been around the issue of articulating the
social demand of services and the institutional supply. CDD approaches have shown to be effective in
permitting a better understandmg of local priorities and needs, and facilitating more effective participation
and ownership in the implementation of rural development programns The challenge remains to fortify the
capacity for strategic planning at the municipal level, so as to leverage these local-level activities into
expanding opportunities for pnvate sector investment and market access. On the supply side, in poor rural
areas, where public sector intervention is still predominant, its capacity to organize a response is critical.
Such response is subject to vertical coordination, at the different levels of the administration, and horizontal
coordination, among sectors. Both levels of coordination have proved difficult. Vertical coordination is
embodied in a large set of formal agreements and norms between the Federal and State governuents, in the
context of various programs, but with an increasing challenge deriving from the strong pressure of the States
to be more autonomous in the execution of these programs, and the increasmg difficulty of the federation to
ensure compliance with established norms. At the same time, municipalities have become very important
actors in the on-going decentralization effort and increasingly central to nrral develnnment strtegiet While
local capacity still needs to be considerably strengthened, they are being reasonably successful in promoting
social and rural infiastructure.
Regional development has been embraced by Mexico as an inter-municipal spatial approach that provides
socio-economic, ethnic, and environmental homogeneity at the sub-state level This is conducive to better
address the sector's strong heterogeneity, the significant disparities in income, and its multi-functionality in
the context of an ever-increasing diversification out of agriculture. Regional development offers a real
oppotunity to more effectively link urban and rural policies in a context where agnculture, services and
infiastructure strive at creating the conditions for a more integrated approach to local development. It also



Page s
permits to better address marketing issues, to more effectively integrate labor markets, and pursue economy
of scales and private sector development. The establishment of Regional Councils as a plural fonrm including
representatives of the producers civil society, public institutions, and municipalities, offers an interesting
model to arirculate supply and Apmsand fnr csvir,c nd b.fepr mnnhili7p snd erlinteL npubic and nrivmte
resources for local development needs.
Municipal development: The decentralization to municipalities of the social infrastructure fund (MSIF) in
1998, through the creation of Ramo 33 as a new line item of the federal budget, signals a major step in the
Gnvernment decentrlization strategv. The resources transferred are substantial and are distributed according
to poverty-driven formulas, with minimum earmarking and no strings attached. Since Municipalities were
not unifornly prepared to assume these devolved responsibilities, programs to develop their capacity for
administering, managing and implementing these funds became a major concern. At the Federal level, only
INDESOL and CEDEMUN kept providing some training and monitored the development of Municipalities,
but with scarce funds to piay a more active role. An Agremeni of rive Ministries to acti jointly m municipal
development was signed, but produced no relevant actions
From 1998 on, State governments began to fill the vacuum left by the withdrawal of the Federal government,
and organized Municipal Development approaches of different types, ranging from full agreements to pool
reoumes aru uevc.op a Municipa:lllrI Irl:ILULIUII4I Ve:op...en; ruuama  wide, Lu oio.au   sce.ed
actions A revival of the issue of Municipal Development occurred from 2001, following the proposals of the
incoming Federal Administration. According to the National Development Plan 2000-2005, Decentralization
and Municipal Development go together and are a cornerstone for the construction of a new architecture of
federalism. This approach is reflected in a new role for CEDEMUN and in its designation as Coordinator of
the proposed DRD) 111.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector Issues: The major sector issues addressed by the proposed project are rural aoverrv. decentralization
and municipal development.  By building on the successes and lessons learned under both the DRD I and
DRD 11, the proposed project will continue to support the local-level participatory processes through which
municipal investments are currently identified, prioritized and implemented. The project will foster greater
institutional capacity at the municipal level to more effectively administer and manage small-scale social and
nrntiwtutive infrctnirtumrp inveqtm.entq inrelidino thpir nnprntirn and maintennnre, Tnatine n cacstinnhtpl
foundation for the on-going decentralization process. Particularly, the proposed project will work with state
and municipal administrations in an effort to professionalize key staff within these levels of government and
create a process whereby their skills and training would not be lost (as is currently common) with the change
of Municipal government.  By building on the successes and lessons learned under both the DRD I and
L     i1, UiC piopo9JU  pJ.jJct, WiContinue Lo sLUpbL5L. uhle J ValUIV0i J .Ipa:LUI jJita.  J UUUU5,JI wJ.iih
municipal investnents are currently identified, prioritized and implemented.
Strategk chokces: The main strategic choices made in project design include the following:
* .VRtlunrlinio amnrnvwomneDt in hnih tnrinl wolfn,n and Inrnml ernnnmie nnrivinu  AerPcQ tn haiir
infastructure services remainLs a significant constraint to achieving gains in rural well-being. The
proposed  project provides an  avenue through  which  local communities, working through
COPLADEMUNs, can obtain these services.
* Community-based approach. Field audits under the DRD 11 indicated that subproject quality (uniformally
satisfactory under the project) was significantly higher in those cases where comrunities managed the
subprojects. A random sample of subprojects also revealed a 30 percent cost advantage for conununity-
managed subprojects, when compared to similar subprojects completed by third party contractors.
Evaluations of the DRD 11 concluded that the sustainability of subproject investments was dependent on
the level of narticinaton by the resnective beneficiar cnmmunities The nronnsed nrniect will continue
to promote and strengthen this community-based approach.
* Integration of programs and policies at the local level. Efriciency and effectiveness of municipal
expenditures is improved when a strategic approach to sources and uses of fuids is followed. Just as



Page 6
important are the opportunities for mter-municipal collaboration, which can leverage funds from several
municipalities and achieve investment results that would be difficult or non-viable if attempted
independently by each municipality.
T Targeting of resources.  The proposed project channels resources to rural municipalities in the
participatmg states, following a transparent distnbution formula which places relatively greater levels of
resources in poorer areas
* Rigorous monitoring and evaluation  A lack of consolidated project-specific monitoring and evaluation
data was a significant weakness of the predecessor project. Under the proposed project, a revised M and E
system will be put in place, drawing heavily on already existing sources of data at the State level.
* Guidance and rncenl vesfor municipal development. Many rural municipalities can benefit from technical
assistance and appropriate signals through performance indicators to aid in goal-setting for enhanced
municipal developmeni. This technicai assistance can range from improvements aimed al enhancing the
sustainability of physical investments to enhanced mechanisms for participation and social
communication in regard to demand-dnven investments. The project incorporates these mechanisms into
its design
VSgrojn.r coordnation   of ..m-..ntpnI ;,.-nns al Am,lnn-..esnrA.rL.. r...:l..  den:
..,*, ~~~,....,-fl..-..,fl.'*.            ..L..L~~~~~~~~~~.JJJfl.ca..   .~~~~~. . ~ ..J.  ~ ~ ~   UEhE-'.L7.4Ltl
Federal agencies offer a variety of municipal institutional development programs Some State
governments also have similar programs, municipalities also have funds for their own uidividual
initiatives. This generates much duplication The project proposes to streamline existing programs and
build stronger coordination mechanisms for municipal institutional development
* Information Technology The Federal government is currently working to expand connectivity among the
2,427 municipalities nationwide through its eMexico progran. The proposed project would support these
efforts through exchange of global best practice in the area of distance learning, streamlining service
delivery, and improving articulation between Federal, State and Municipal government on connectivity
meClieC
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 3 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
T-he total project cost is USS633.4 million, of which the Bank will finance US$400.0 million. Component
One (Municipal Subprojects, US$518.0 million or 81.8 percent of total project cost) would provide
matching grants to rural municipalities to support some 35,000 demand-driven subproject investments in
-  1=      -  _ *F'-U -**LZ-tM.-L*         .J1tJ      L,t**%*-.  n ~.%   U.%td,~PIC ~ II   flL1
sm!=cale socia! 1 An -rdut-v Ina.        . -e  of investment- would un_Cude, ;..:er ah.:  "A-.er
supply and sanitaion, construction of schools, health centers and community development facilities, waste
disposal, rural electrification and rural road improvement. Under this component, nrual communities would
determine their investment pnonties and, along with other communities in their respective municipalities and
following a given annual budget envelope, take part in COPLADEMUNs to select a set of mvestments for
execution. Thees Councils woulu then Ca y out Utese Subprujuei', tu wnich local communities wouid also
contribute (m cash or in-kind) a minimum of 10 percent toward total subproject cost Subprojects would be
subject to a cost ceiling of US$50,000 in most cases. Following completion of the subproject, communities
would be responsible for operation and maintenance.
Component Two (Mnnicinal developmenn t nd support for decentrali7atinn_ US$4594 million or 9.3
percent of total project cost) would offer technical assistance to strengthen the process of decentralization
and build a framework to enhance municipal development. The component would develop a coordinated
approach among the Federal, State and Municipal governments to foster better managerial practices in
dealing with small-scale infrastructure investment and delivery of services, and better management of
1IciE IQJ hunLW r-sor ces. Amcng uhe activi:i. s . d:r. uhi… .tt..le &- \l)  it alte of ex.s:ag,
Federal, State and Municipal programs and their institutional capacities, (ii) technical assistance to develop
new programs or to improve existing ones, (ni) development of monitoring capacities, (iv) establishment of
coordination agreements between Federal, State and Municipal entities, (v) pilot studies before
implementation of programs or agreements, (vi) technical assistance to prepare amendments to laws and



Page 7
regulations referring to municipal issues, (vii) training of key personnel of the Municipalities, (viii) social
communication, training and social participation promotion to widely disseminate the objectives and
activities under the project; and (ix) surveys about municipal issues.
Component Three (Project supervision, monitoring and evaluation, US5.5 miiiion or 8.7 percent or
total project cost) would finance incremental costs (excluding salaries) of project administration and
coordination including supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation. Given the decentralized nature of the
project, its success will depend on frequent and intense supervision.
The nove.rment of MkeAvi w-ll nrpruvA. idnAnto rf fanding Io S8 1 22 9 'I p.-  Q -.-nt of t.1te pr-ect
I.vlfaw.   -  … ...  r' _ '  -l. -.t.r- .r .-.    - S _Sfl.  iii* J ' \J - - - 1 .  -J nfl.. -
cost), comnunities would contribute US$54 5 million, in cash or in-kind (9 percent of total project cost) and
the Bank loan will finance the remaining US$400.0 million (62 percent of total project cost).
Distribution of Project Costs
Component                   Category             Cost Including          % of
ContLniencies (USSM)        Total
1. Municipal subprojects       Physical (Civil Works,                  518.0            81.8
Goods and Materials)
2. Municipal Development and    Institution building                    59.9             9.5
Support for Decentralization
2.1. Strengthening of                                               22.2              3.5
orirRnl7atinnal canaritieq
of Municipalities
2.2. Development of                                                 37.7              6.0
Institutional Framework
3. Pruject Support, Supcrvi3iun,  rioject nirargeinent                  55.5             8.7
Monitoring and Evaluation
TOTAL                                                                  633.4           100.0
2. Key policy and institutional rerorms supported by the project:
The proposed project supports a CDD approach to ruml poverty reduction, and fosters decentralization
through the promotion of strong local partcipation in decision-making, resource allocation, execution,
operation and maintenance of small-scale basic social and productive infrastructure. At the same time, it
supports institutionai development of Municipaiities by strengthening their organizational capacities and
ernhancing the institutional fwanework on which their development depends.
3. Benefits and target population:
R..e.. IC:
* The mam benefit will be the provision of basic small-scale social and productive infrastructure for 5.8
million mdividuals.
* The project will strengthen the capacity of municipalities to more effectively address local concems in an
inereasingly decentralized environment.
* The project will build synergies between Federal, State and Municipal entities, through activities
designed to leverage their respective capacities in the decentralization process;
* The focus on CDD mechanisms will foster a deeDenin2 of social canital. esnecialiv at the municinal and
community levels.



Page 8
Target population:
The project will focus on rural municipalities in the states of Guanajuato, Puebla, Veracruz and Zacatecas.
Rural municipalities are defined as those where either (i) more than 50 percent of the population lives in
localities of 2,500 inhabitants or less or (ii) those municipalities with 30 percent or more of the population
speaking an indigenous language. In the four states, there are 344 of the 530 municipalities meettng these
criteria (60 percent of total municipalities), totaling 5.8 million inhabitants, including almost a million
indigenous language speakers. This population constitutes the prime target group of beneficiaries for the
project (see Annex 3 for more detail).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Four years
Executing Entities:
Community Associations are citizen groups with a common mterest from the same community which
organize to identify their local mvestment priorities for basic social and productive infiastructure. Having
identified these priorities, each community association voices these pnorities, as subproject proposals, in the
COPLADEMLJNs, where municipal-level decisions on investments are made.
Municipal Planning and Development Councils (COPLAIDEMUNs) are representative bodies primarily
comprised of delegates from  each respective community association within the given municipality.
Annrvyimatelv 70 nercent of those narticinatino in the COPLnADFMI Ns ar renresentFtives of notential
project beneficiaries. The remainder (30 percent) are key municipal-level government officials, selected
public sector agencies and other representatives of civil society organizations Operating under an annual
budget envelope of available funding, the COPLADEMUN prioritizes (via consensus and a participatory
process) those subprojects to be fuianced in the given year.
Sate Technkal UIn!! (STU) in each of the participating states, will coordinate with the targeted
municipalities to provide them with technical support and supervision to more effectively carry out their role
in local-level development activities  Specifically, the STU will assist municipalities in assessing the
technical viability of subprojects selected for implementaton. Once subprojects are approved, the STU
authonzes the iiberdion of fun1ds by COPLADEM-U  fur subproject impiewientation.
The National Project Coordination Unit (NCPU), will coordinate overall project activities in the
participating states.  This unit will be the existing National Center for Municipal Development
(CEDEMUN), a decentralized unit within the Federal Secretaria de Gobernacl6n.
Subproject Cycle:
* CommLunity Associations determine their local investment priorities for social and productive
infrastructure and voice these priorities to their respective COPLADEUN;
* Working under an annuai budget enveiope, COPLADEMUN, through a participatory process invoiving
active representation from all municipal community associations, prioritizes subproject investenents and
establishes an annual subproject investment plan;
* The STU conducts a technical assessment of the proposed subprojects and authorizes the liberation of
funds by the COPLADEMUN for subproject implementation;
* COPLADEMUN then implements the annual subproject investment plan, to which community
associations contnbute (in cash or in-kind);
* Following completion of the subproject investments, Community Associations take ownership of the
subprojects and are responsible for their operation and maintenance



PanG 9
Project Ovezgh:    CEDEMUN will undertae project oversight and ovemllt coordination of project
activiies in the paricipatng soeu CEDEMUN witl approve tie Annual Operating Plans for the Project ad
supervise the applition of projec resouces to the patlicipatig states.
Pn'Jt Coonwilbc STUs in the particpating stas will be chaed with the folwing specific duties' (a)
revew community subprnject propsats for compliance with project guidelines and eligibility criteria in the
projec Operational Mnual; (b supervise the COPLADEMUNs to ensu   they are adeuately mananinit
qualty of subproject iniplemenwion and providing suffcient Waning support to communities. (c) provide
technical assistance to all COPLADEWUNs (including tranng on subproject implementation, contrating
options, Ct&M and finncial manageinen), () prepare as annual opeating plan 11r the projec activittes in
the ste and submit to CEDEMUNh (e) tra       mnicipalities in conducting diagnostic profiles and
evAetnnsnt stnd itreniitinn of Pinnow do flpniAn 4'nnit (vrrinl &Artinn DlInV,11 tf% sncnr An*reCnna,vN
thrugh the Management Information System (MIS) and periodically repo progress to CEDEMIN; (g)
prep    annua implementation and physical perfomancr reviews; and (h) submit requird subproject
documentation to CEDEMUN for prepaation of SOEs to be submitted to the Bank.
ruxany, um S tUs wit Iwnua sjwarwwc iniomwatnon campaign lS   commtuousty oissemminat uitormation
about the poect and its guidelmes to all potential beAnficiy counounitits, therby increasing awaeess,
transpncy and participation in the progrm. The information campaign is being designed to ens   thiat all
potential beneficires, including minority groups, have access to t  project mad its benefits; it also
incerportes cultually appropriate media to effectively cnvey project guidelines ad stimulate the wide
itvolvenmnt of all citizry witin the municipalty
Prjec oeratkondal proctedur.:  The proposed project would be implemented according to detled
proeures defined in its Operational Manual This Manual draws on conent use under the prvous projet
(URlD W. but has been improved and undated. based on lessons leamed from iti imnlemuentticn Evneurince.
he Operational Manual consolidates the objectives, mechanisms and procedures under the project for ready
reerence by the prtcipsaing states A   us-fiendly manual will also be made avaiable to te
COPLADiEMUNs for their use in training communities aibout the project. The contents of the Opemtional
Manual would include, mter alga, leaming tools with which municipalities and communities tan more
0d,1- a<ris4  zmrvls&n  Aennoo a"  ,a,,e- Pk- Awe. ,n?,.,n t I p--,a--
Monforing and evaIuovIon arr"  ineaMt: Analysis of project implernentation will depend on a datbase
drawn from the projt Management Information System (MIS). The MIS used under the previous DRD li is
being updated to incororate international bestpractices for use in the proposed prqject. The MIS onsists of
irn  components (a) a subpnrject iriformation module  which contains pertinent physical and financial
infommation for ah subproject executed by the COPLADEMUNs; (b) a financial management miodul,
maintained by CEDEMUN, frm which Statements of Expenditu      (SOEs) ae  generaed, using data
provided by the participating states; ad (c) a project management modue., from which aill projm repos are
generatd.
The projt would also undenak evaluation stuies to assess the impact from the subproject investments and
the acivities stuounding institutional development at ahe Fedeml, Ste and Mu4nicipal level. These
evaluations would also provide feedback to improve futue project operations  These evaluations would
entail: til annual ohvskal nefornmance reviews to lqs*sts the rlivnnd  ct*iur1hNivh afrnnmntnh*C aI
financed subprjects, inludig rcviews of ntunicipal-based procurement and compliance with environmental
secrening criteia; (ii) an evaluatin/implementetion review, carried out at mid-ter. to iclude, inter alf,
beneiciary consutations to evaluate project perfomance and impat as perceived by its beneficiaries; amd
(iii) a rigorous and compehensive impac evaluation
4eoundng, Jkunci rprting and andltng arnngemena: The fiancial management systems to be used
by CEDEMUN and the partiipating states were reviewed by a Baank Financial Management Specialist
during proje  prepron for compliance with OPBP 10.02. Based on this review, the proje  was certified
't" Under the proposed proect, CEDEMUN wit enhance projet accnt   g and reporing procedwes to
fiy comply with Banik requirements. 'The anual financial audit of the project accounts will also include a
separate opion on the eligibility of expendiurs disbursed on the basis of SOEs, Accordig to



Page 10
arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Mexico, the annual financial audit of the project accounts for the
period January 1 to December 31 of the year will be carried out by an Independent Auditor, acceptable to the
RRnk- The audit renort will be submnitted to the Rank no later than June 30 in the vear following that fer
which the project accounts are audited. The Auditor's TOR will include the issuance of a management letter
on mternal controls six months afler effectiveness
D: Project Rationale
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
a) Extend Project Coverage to Greater Number of States. Past experiences under the DRD 11 showed that
decentrali.nton of progroms to state *mplementtonn h-c.-es the need for super:ision. Con.d'A..n4  a
multi-faceted objective of basic small-scale infrastructure delivery and institutional strengthening, an
initial number of four participating states was deemed sufficient in order to maintain the quality of
project implementation and the effectiveness of supervision.
b) Use of Thorizontal" APL. mne Project is designed as a SiL. However, an APL design of the "horizontal"
type (i e, geographic progression) was considered as an alternative that could facilitate inclusion of
additional states under the project. It would learn from the experience of implementation with the initial
states and adjust the design as it unfolds. With only four participating states identified at present, it was
decided to retain the lending instrument as a SIL. During the project mid-term review, a decision will be
taken as to the viability of extending the project benefits to other states
c) Inclusion of non-rural municipalities in project design The Project has been designed to address
municipal development in rural municipalities The rationale for this is that rural municipalities tend to
have a higher proportion of poor people as percentage of their total population The inclusion of non-
rural municipalities would have shifted the focus from rural toward urban development, an area already
covered by other Bank operations.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and or other development agencies (completed,
nnpninv and nlanned):
Latest Supervision Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed:                                                Implementation   Development
Progress        Objective
Decentralized Regional     DRD 11 (3790-ME) (closed)                S               S
Dev.
Fiscal Decentralization  Decentralization Adjustment Loan           S               S
(7002-ME)
MeAxico St- Adju..-en. I' a 70¢A          e               c
ME)
Mexico State Technical Assistance         S               S
(P073371)
Decentralization of       Environment Support Adjustment
Environment Management   Loan (P074539) (in preparation)
Strengthening of Audit   IDF Grant to stengthen monitoring          S               S
capacities                and auditing capacities in state
(closed)
I Urhan renewal          National Urban Upgrading Proiect
| (P07371) (in preparation)         I                               l
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 1 1
3. Lessons learned and reflected In the proposed project design:
Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making and implementation from Federal to Municipal
govemments increases efficiency and leads to superior outcomes. Experience in Mexico and other countries
shows that decentralized approaches reduce bureaucracy and administrative bottlenecks and strengthen
accountability by placing resources and decision-making in the hands of intended beneficiaries. The
COPLADEMUN is a strong example of such an approach. The proposed project will work with these
municipal-level organizations to further strengthen their capacity to implement, monitor and supervise local
inuPctmentQ
Participation by intended beneficiaries in the determination and prioritization of subprojects insures that
these investments meet their genuine needs, thereby leading to an increased sense of ownership and greater
sustainability. A participatory approach - as followed under the DRD 11 - will be continued under the
pruposed project.
The municipal role in anti-poverty and development programs has increased steadily since 1998 and will
expand in the future, as a result of continumg decentralization. The project proposes more intense attention to
municipal institutional development, and introduces as an innovation, the consolidation of an institutional
framework that would support municipal development.
Adopting a Rural Space approach creates the opportunity to forge necessary linkages between more rural and
urban localities within the municipal context. The proposed project operationalizes this concept by targeting
rural municivalities based on their level of rural inhabitants.
Continuity in Municipal governance, made possible through retention of technical and administrative staff,
makes for a longer-term planning horizon for municipal investments. The project, through its second
component, supports the study of reforms to professionalize municipal servants as a strategy to diminish
VIiU IE UE IWIWI LUjJILUL WLJU ICUULCG LLUIIIUVWI UL &C7 pCEMbllLII.
erosion[ of--.A.cwuldrc        .,.oe    fke  ean.
Decentralization of resources for rural development, in the absence of careful supervision and strengthening
of the entities responsible for project planning and implementation may compromise the returns on
community investments and result in uneven coverage and quality of the infrastructre services being
delivered The Project directly addresses this concern through its second and third components and through
intense supervision directly in the participating states.
A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system, coordinated at the Federal level, facilitates the subproject
evysiiatinn prncess, nrovides feedback and necessqsrv information to imnrove tnrvewinp and efficienry, Ant is
an essential management and planning tool. Federal coordination of this function assists in mainstreaming
individual state-level experiences The proposed project, with CEDEMUN as the coordinator, would
facilitate the coordination of already existing monitoring and evaluation arrangements at the level of the
participating states.
Poverty targeling mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on objective criteria, can foster
tramnsparency, minimize political interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project resources
reach the poorest areas. The proposed project targets resources based on a widely-disseminated formula and
opens project benefits to rural municipalities where poverty is most acute.
International best practice with CDD indicates that a system of checks and balances, clearly-defined and
well-disseminated, is essential to ensure proper use of funds and sound targeting of resources. Rules and
procedures for such a system, including guidelines for performance incentives and penalties, will be
developed and detailed in the project Operational Manual.



Page 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Federal Government through its Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito PTblico (SHCP), Nacional
Financiera (NAFIN) and the States of Guanajuato, Puebia, Veracruz and Zacatecas signed an Aide Memoire
in March 2002 (in the Project Files), where they express formally uheir interest in the project and define its
main features.
S. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of Bank support in this Project is three pronged: (i) to deepen the CDD approach to
stimulate municipal development, based on a blend of recent Latin American and Mexican experiences; (ii)
to capitalize on the field experience accumulated through the DRD I and 11 projects since the beginning of
the 1990's with respect to basic infrastructure development at the municipal level; and (iii) to play a decisive
role towards the coordmiation of municipal institutional development programs.
Besides its knowledge of relevant expenences, the Bank is already involved in a direct dialogue with
stakeholders that could facilitate coordination with other Bank-financed programs. In particular, important
synergies could be pursued with the on-eoing Rural Develonment in Marginal Areas Proiect. where the
performance of the Regional Councils also depends on the active and knowledgeable participation of
municipalities and their capacity to contribute to regional development with own resources, and with the
Urban Upgrading Project (in preparation), where Municipal Development is a common field of interest.
E. 3uIUIUary El rjec:l nuayses       --UE:a  s . e  ar EL.U teUJLct ":e,  IL Arr.eE  Q
1. Economic (see Annex 5):
Subprojects to be Implemented under the proposed project will be selected following a demand-driven
apnroach whereby municipalities, with wide participation from communitv representatives, priontize
investments in basic small-scale social and productive infiastructure. For this reason, an ex ante estimation
of the cost-effectiveness of the specific subprojects is not possible It is expected that subproject demand
patterns will be similar to those encountered under the DRD II. As such, data from the previous project have
been used to assess the cost-effectiveness of the proposed project.
Cost-effectiveness: Many elements of the proposed project help to demonstrate that the basic social and
productive infrastructure investments implemented are indeed the least-cost, best alternative. Given the
annual budget envelope available to each municipality, scarce resources are allocated to their highest end use
via the demand-dnven, participatoiy mechanisms inherent in the project design. COPLADEMUNs engage
the wide participaton of communities which have, through broad consulitation, determin-led tuir specino
investment demands. Additionally, field audits, drawn from a random sample of subprojects implemented
under DRD 11 confuimed that (i) overall subproject quality was satisfactory and (ii) the CDD approach
pursued was relatively more efficient than the previous "top-down" approach to basic service delivery.
Procurement procedures for subproject implementation - detailed in the project Operational Manual --
require municipalities to solicit (depending on total subproject cost) from three to five prospective bids, trom
which the least-cost is chosen. Additionally, the cost of subprojects implemented under DRD 11 were, in
general, some 30 percent below the costs for similar works implemented under more traditional approaches.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): Cost recovery through user fees charged to beneficiaries is sufficient to cover
operation and maintenance of the subproject investments, as well as their eventual replacement at the end of
their economic life
Fiscal Impacl: All Bank-financed programs in Mexico operate within existing Federal budget allocations, in
nrrnrdanre with the tight fiscal nnlicv being undertaken by the Federal government. Nonetheless, the
proposed project would result in fiscal savings, by continuing and improving upon the CDD approach
followed under DRD 11. Under already established annual municipal budget envelopes, the project - through
evidence already m support of significant cost savings associated with the demand-driven approach -
increases the reach for a given level of resources, when compared to traditional approaches of basic



Page 13
infrastructure delivery. The 30 percent cost savings already noted under DRD 11 would translate into
potentially reaching 30 percent more beneficiaries than would be possible under other approaches.
Furthermore, since operation and maintenance are covered by the communities through user fees once the
subproject execution is completed, the burden of these recurrent costs is lifted from both State and Municipal
gove-m-ents. D;^ revenue g,en.       ron a. a rnnenuan,-cen of niest-entsn  i bhu-c s:al and produ.:-e
infrastructure, is expected to be negligible, yet indirect impact, through purchases of electrical appliances and
less burden on public health systems through improved access to safe water supply and sanitation services,
allow scarce budgetary resources to be gradually re-directed to other end uses.
3. T echnicai: The success oT the predecessor projeci - DRiD i  - confirms tme tecnnicai viabnliy or mule
proposed project. Institutional arrangements and aspects of subproject implementation under the proposed
project will be similar to those under the DRD 11
4. lnstitutlonal:
a. Executing agencies
in the participating states, the respective STUs demonstrated satisfactory technical capacity under the DRD 11
in the review of subproject investment proposals, in line with procedures laid out in the project Operational
Manual.   In the case of the fourth participating state - GJuanajuato - the STU was assessed durinp the
preparation mission and deemed to possess satisfactory capabilities in line with those found in the other three
states.
b. Project management
CEDEMUN will be responsible for day to day coordination and management of the project. Subproject
priontization and implementation is undertaken by the COPLADEMUNs, which have demonstrated under
the DRD TI the capqcity to carry out these activities.
c. ProcIuremet an' fia*ICaEutia m-nutnam-emnut Is uua
Procurement and financial management systems have been reviewed by Bank specialists and are considered
satisfactory (see Annex 7).
5. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category I I A  IXI B   I I C
5 1 Summarize the steps undertaken for the enviromnental assessment and EMP (including consultation and
disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed project has been assigned a "Bn environmental classification. All subprojects would be small-
scale basic infrastructure works in rual areas (in most cases, less than US$50,000) and with proper screening
and monitoring would not pose any significant environmental impacts. Under the DRD 11, under which the
same cost ceiling applied. the average cost of subprojects was less than US$15,000
During preparation, a team of environmental specialists visited the proposed project area to evaluate the
municipal environmental management capacity, consulted stakeholders on environmental issues and
evaluated State and Municipal environmental institutional framework.  The evaluation made note of the
rAther formal conpliance of subp-rojetc with existng snvimomnmi lcnt une,,ltimnn (which in thamc.I.c.
are minimal and mostly of an administrative content for the types of subprojects undertaken), and observed
that, to enhance the sustainability of the investments made under the project, additional issues (i.e., technical,
institutional, participatory) should be included in the project design. Specifically, lessons learned from the
DRD 11 experience led to the following recommendations and actions included in the present project:
(i)     By extending the existing environmental regulatory framework (e.g., the additional tools introduced
by this project, as firther discussed below) in the project area, as well as the technical capacity - at
the State and Local level- environental screening and analysis of subprojects can be inproved.



Page 14
(ih)    The project design takes into account building upon the municipal and community level capacity for
screening and addressing environrmental issues
(il    Comminity canacitv to addess environmentAl themes in the fetnti nn Anti maintAnAnne of
subprojects will be enhanced to improve physical sustainability of these investments and decrease
the potential for environmental degradation.
(iv)    Field assessment of proposed subprojects will be enhanced by extending the technical guidelines for
evaluathrig er.viu.-Unmentall L*iskF (e.g. .-y-,e and siZze ufsbr;c,:-o,amin  rioie-a
~VOIU4I1I ~"'uinuiuigi flN ~., IlJV 11  LC Vi UUjJ1UJVE..L, LMutaIuII, wuiiuicnt cujvironinental
conditions).
State-level institutions charged with environmnental management are in place and the existing capacity at the
municipal level to screen subprojects for environmental impact is sufficient for compliance with present
norms, which require sketches of sites to be presented to state authorities. T hese authonties then screen the
technical files of all proposed subprojects and determine any additional technical analyses and permits
needed before clearng the subprojects for execution (see Annex 13 for details) For the enhanced
environmental screening and management proposed by this project, these capacities will be further developed
and strengthened through Component Two.
5 2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate
Specifically, under the proposed project, the screening capacity will be enhanced through support of traming
and canacity-hmildina to deenen the STlJs' shilities to assess any significant envirnnmental impaet rpsulting
from subproject investments Similar activities, targeted to the municipalities, will improve environmental
awareness of the COPLADEMUNs and their capacity to screen for environmental impacts both in
subprojects financed under the project and also in other municipal-level public works The environmental
screening critena will be strengthened through the introduction of additional diagnostic tools in the project
Operational Manual (c g., an environmental data sheet, environmental checklist, technicai guideiines for
subproject design and implementation, mitigation measures, enhanced negative list). These tools would
contribute to improved coordination between municipal, state and federal levels Component Two of the
project would also support studies to assess the viability and manner in which these tools could be
mainstreamed into existing legislation at the State level.
The project will finance the development of manuals and brochures, as part of the state-level information
campaigns, to be made available to potential beneficiaries, through the COPLADEMUNs, to raise their
environmental awareness and engage them proactively on environmental issues, both in screening of
proposed c..-Jectk   -rr   in s--up sion of thper  -iemontoten  The n'-noJect Orpe.tiona. ftAonual
summarizes all environmental laws and legislation applicable in all the participating states (see Annex 13 for
greater detail)  It also contams an Environmental Checklist for the purposes of screening subprojects in
order to ensure that environmental consequences and impacts are properly identified and adequate measures
are mcluded in the subproject design. The Operational Manual also contains a negative list, updated where
necessary fom that list used under the DRL) 11, specifying those subprojects which would be ineligible for
financing. Additionally, for subprojects with any need for environrmental mitigation, standard project designs
have been developed (e.g., sanitation).
5 3 For Category A and B proiects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft- 1212001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms of
Lor.suiftfiOnrl ULlat WCI UbCU 8LLIU WbIIILh S1UuLQ WCIV IL,ULUILCU('
The stakeholders (i e, the States, Municipalities and potential beneficiaries) were consulted during the
environmental analysis through interviews (see Project Files for details). Since this is a demand-driven



Page 15
project, only a sample of potential beneficianes has been consulted. Where environmental screening would
identify a need for further community consultation, the consultation would be carried out through an opinion
survey and a consultation program encompassing broad and specific areas of influence of the proposed
subproiects.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
with environmental screening and implementation of mitigation measures can be monitored. Semiannually,
at least 5% of subprojects will be audited for implementation of (i) environmental screening; (ii) mitigation
measures; (iii) envirommental monitoring; and (iv) community capacity-building. The project mid-term
review will also assess the usefulness and impact of the additional diagnostic tools, as well as the overall
environmentai screening and supervision of subprojects, and make adjustments as indicated.
6. Social:
6 I Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
UAevelopmIIen ouLcomes.
Of the 25.9 million Mexicans living in rural areas (i.e., localities of less than 2,500 inhabitants), 37% of
households live on less than US$ 1 per day. Of the 344 municipalities targeted in the four participating states,
83 municipalities (25 percent) are consider "high" in terms of marginality, while another 114 (33 percent) are
considered "very high". As a whole, persistently high poverty rates continue to challenge the well-being of
the rural Mexicans If left unattended, it is likely to evolve into an issue that could threaten the social balance
of Mexican society by polarizing the economy and the development agenda. The pervasiveness of such high
poverty rates, especially among indigenous populations, raises issues of equity, social inclusion, and access
tonp nuctive fnrtorn and assetc.
The project seeks to improve the quality of life of the target population through small-scale social and
productive infrastructure subproject investments, using a CDD approach, and by strengthening municipal,
state and federal-level institutions to more effectively achieve regional development goals  Given the
projects participatory approach, the wide inciusion of aii potential beneficiaries, inciuding women and
minorities, would be assured initially through state-specific information campaigns designed to create
awareness regarding the project's objective, operating guidelmes and how to access project benefits.
Identification and implementation of specific subprojects would occur through demand-driven mechanisms at
the community level Demand formation would be further informed through diagnostic tools and capacity-
building designed to expand social and cultural perceptions at the municipal level and contribute to the
accumulation of social capital.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The backbone of the social assessment consisted of field work conducted by an interdisciplinary team of
social scientists with experience in rural development, indigenous culture and municipal govermnent
Candidates were proposed from two civil society organizations with a strong background of collaboration
with mdigenous groups, consultancies with municipal governments and publications on citizenship
participation issues
The field work was implemented in a total of 23 municipalities in the four project states and included
meetings with some 1,100 people consisting of (i) municipal presidents, (ii) other municipal authorities, (iii)
municipal-level technical staff, (iv) community leaders, (v) representatives of over 100 local-level rural
community associations within the project area, (vi) representatives from non-beneficiary associations and
(vii) delegates from more than 25 civil society organizations.



Page 16
Throughout the field work, meetmgs with population groups were held as well as interviews with qualified
informers. The most outstanding meetings with indigenous groups were m the municipal communities of
Tehuipango Chicontepec, Pajapan and Huayacocotla (Veracruz) and Xochttdin, Zacatlin, Tepexi de
Rndrless^7 Anuiirtla and Atlixen (Piiphlal Other infhnrrntion snnrrtsq were interviews held with CtntP
officials (e.g., undersecretaries, general directors and directors), state technical staff and municipal staff, both
at the managerial and technical level. To complete the field work, analytical meetings and discussions were
held with civil society experts
6.3 How does the project tnvolve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Beneficiaries - all subprojects identified, prepared, operated and maintained by community associations.
Community associations also contribute to subproject costs.
COPLADEMUNs - implement (including procurement/contracting of works) and supervise subprojects;
collaborate with community associations in identifying local-level needs and prioritizing subprojects within
the municipality
State/Municipal government - Municipal government participates in council meetings, and directly facilitates
the work of the COPLADEMUNs. The project STU plays a vital role in working with the COPLADEMUNs
m areas of technical assistance, capacity-building, monitoring and evaluation
6'wat 4  nai uiuuuonuai W-Weffi5eeri Ziuve wu pauv.uvudeu - ULV ji- BJJCLL acvceveW ULIW
development outcomes?
Experience under the DRD 11 verifies that the tested project design, using a CDD approach, has been
successful in achievmg the broad inclusion of all social groups within targeted municipalities, including
women and minority groups The municipal councils - COPLADEMUNs - have proven to be both
representative and transparnt bodies through which communities and municipal representatives can examine
and prioritize proposals for investment in basic social and productive infirastructure.  Under the proposed
project, this continued level of broad inclusion would be ensured through equitable access to project rules
and infnrmntinn mnder the informatinn ramnaimon  The informntion rcmnnimn is heinao de'doned to enuilre
that all potential beneficianes, including minority groups can have access to the project. The design of the
information campaign for the project incorporates culturally appropnate media to effectively convey project
guidelines and stimulate the wide involvement of all citizenry within the municipality.
The COPLADEMUNs. at the municipal level, constitute an ampnle forum for local oarticioation. given their
composition. Some 70 percent of those participating are representatives of potential project beneficiarzes,
with voting power in regard to decision-makmg on, among other things, subproject investments. The
remaining 30 percent - key municipal-level government officials, selected public sector agencies and other
representatives of civil society organizations.  The level of representation within the COPLADEMUN
ensures that those decsitons rcached by the courcil are mideed U'le produUCtL 0loal uui cWCIiub muI
consultation and bear the mark of those who mn intended to benefit from the project
The proposed project does not foresee any relocation of populations nor modification of property rights and
its flexible, decentralized approach accommodates the diverse indigenous communities' participatory
mechanisms, forms of organization and respective cultures. Indigenous and mestizo populations in small
rural communities tend to share similar economic, social and political disadvantages. Concerns about
indigenous and disadvantaged groups have been mainstreamed and are addressed by the project mechanisms.
Legal framework flexibility and appropriate participatory mechanisms, supported by social communication,
trao,,nr awnd SCfl nartirinaf;nn nrnmntinn  oreatp th. noneratinnsl rnntn-rt fnr inrlicrennimq nennilf'
particpo whespt ft- r   r drse c    res,-organizations and c ---------o---ms.
participation with respect for their diverse cultwres, organizations and customs.



Pige 17
6 5 How will the project monitor perfonnance in termns of social development outcomes?
The project has a monitoring and evaluation system, dmwing on state-specific data from each of the
p..t;.;p..;nn ctotpc that will ufipI infnrmsatinn rlpvnnt tra the acpccmpnt nf thlp evurall nmomPcc in nrnipt
implementation, especially (but not limited to) the execution of municipal subprojects under Component
One. Given that the formulation of both the auzodiagn6sfico and the Social Plan is inherently participatory in
nature, the ability to ensure a sound process will be key to establishing the validity and legitimacy of the final
product (see Annex 12). As such, the project would, in the context of overall project evaluation, contract an
IJ!i~.   …~…                              L.\J........AA....L  … )Lrtt  L-
extemai anu uivdepidienii asbGesMI-rit Uf UI.e pIta.ICLVIy apprUoac oU: (i) dCLCeLI,ne UI ex.enI; LU ih al
inclusion has been maximized; (ii) validate the effectiveness of the training regarding the au:odiagndstico
and the Social Plan; and (iii) develop recommendations and altematives (as needed) to improve the
participatory approach
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                         Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                         Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                  No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                Yes
indigenuus Peupid (OD 4.20;                                                 'YeS
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 437)                                              No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, OP 7.50)                  No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment
A team of environmental specialists has evaluated the municipal environmnental management capacity,
consulted stakeholders on environmental issues and assessed the State and Municipal environmental
institutional framework (see Section 7, Environmental Assessment and Annex 13 for details).
State-level institutions charged with environmental management are in place and the existing capacity at the
municipal level to screen subprojects for environmental impact is sufficient for compliance with present
norms. For fte enhanced environmental screening and management proposed by this project, these capacities
will be further developed and strengthened through Component Two.  Under the proposed project, this
s elnILhirI5 caCpUILj will UC 1 ILWLbPe  Cu UAlIUU5I sUppUIt U. UfJ2Lli1 UJIU tap.jLy-UUi1UU1. LU UVCrpIl 0.e oiL3
abilities to assess any significant environmental impact resulting from subproject investments.  Similar
activities, targeted to the municipalities, will improve envuronmental awareness of the COPLADEMUNs and
their capacity to screen for enviromnental impacts both in subprojects financed under the project and also in
other municipal-level public works. The environmental screening criteria will be strengthened through the
introduction of additional diagnostic tools in the project Operational Manual (e.g, an environmental data
sheet, environmental checklist, technical guidelines for subproject design and implementation, mitigation
measures, enhanced negative list). These tools would contribute to improved coordination between
municipal, state and federal levels. Component Two of the project would also support studies to assess the
viahilitv and mrnnner in which these tnol could he Tnainstrennmed intn evkting leoiqlntion At the State level
Each SllJ will have at least one qualified environmental specialist available to address environmental issues
in the review of subprojects.



Page 18
The project will also finance the development of manuals and brochures, as part of the state-level information
campaigns, to be made available to potential beneficiaries, through the COPLADEMUNs, to raise their
environmental awareness and engage them proactively on environmental issues, both in screening of
proposed subprojects and in supervision of Their impiementation.  Tne project uperationai Manuai
summarizes all environmental laws and legislation applicable in all the participating states  It also contains
an Environmental Checklist for the purposes of screening subprojects in order to ensure that environmental
consequences and impacts are properly identified and adequate measures are included in the subproject
design. The Operational Manual also contains a negative list (see Annex 13), updated where necessary from
that list used under the DRD 11, specifying those subprojects which would be ineligible for financing.
Additionally, for subprojects with any need for environmental mitigation, standard project designs have been
developed (e.g., sanitation)
*iiuigt:iiuu a wv,cw
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
The project will support the definition of socio-cultural strategies at the municipal level The strategies will
help communities to make consistent use of municipal investments and programs to pursue their specific
social, ethnic and cultural goals.  The main device to start the preparation of these strategies are
autodiagndsticos (self-evaluations), conducted by the COPLADEMUNs. The methodological instruments for
the autodiagnosticos would include sections to address the identification of ethnic, linguistic, and cultural
traits
Capacities required to perfonn this planning function already exist in Municipalities, STUs and CEDEMUN,
and will be strengthened through Component Two over the life of the project. To start the process, the
immnediate strengthening of capacities will come from hiring external support, with funds allocated through
Component Two.
CEDEMUN will play a key role initially in guiding the development of standardized tools and a viable
methodology which could then be implemented in each municipality For this purpose, CEDEMUN will
deploy the services of specialisis in socio-cultural assessment (e.g., anthropologists, sociologists) in order to
(i) bring sufficient ngor to the overall exercise and (ii) ensure that culturally appropnate mechanisms are
incorporated into the diagnostic kit to effectively reach the expected diversity in the project municipalities.
Development of the diagnostic kit would also entail an ongoing dialogue with the COPLADEMUNs
throughout the four states, to encourage a strong "buy-in" to the exercise and its intended product. Once
developed, fhep iianostic kit wnmmld hinme part of the prniect Onpm;nfnns Mqn,nqi
Subsequent to the development of the socio-cultural diagnostic kit, a senes of intensive training activities
would be conducted to properly equip both STU personnel and representatives of COPLADEMUNs in the
elaboration of the municipal ainodsagndsticos Given the extensive geographic coverage of the project, as
well as the overaii aim of strengthening federlism m Mexico, a "training of trainers" approach wouid be
pursued. Under this approach, CEDEMUN would instruct selected STU personnel in the proper deployment
of the diagnostic kit at the municipal level; then, STU staff would, in turn, carry out training activities with
the COPLADEMUNs m their respective states. As stated earlier, the autodiagnistfcos would detail the
specific socio-cultural charactenstics of the municipality and provide inputs toward defining the basic needs
at the community level. To this end, given that the COPLADEMUN is itself a representative council of
community-level constituents, it is expected that these local-level representatives will each play a strong role
in consulting, identifymg and expressing comnmunity basic needs in the COPLADEMUN and as part of the
overall process of elaborating the autodiagndsticos
Once completed, the autodiagn6stico would be used by the COPLADEMUN to formulate Planes de Gestudn
Social (Social Action Plans)  The formulation of these plans would be the responsibility of the
COPLADEMUN, with guidance and technical assistance provided for its completion through the STU and
other civil society organizations At a minimum, the Social Action Plans would detail the actions and



Page 19
activities required to address the demands identified in the autodiagn6stico, specify those responsible for
carrying out these activities, identify a timefiarne for their completion, and stipulate the sources of additional
resources (e.g., finance) that may be necessary for their attainment The communication of the Social Action
Pian wii rely on cuituraily appropriate media for reaching all elements of municipai society (e.g., indigenous
radio broadcasts, interpretation facilities for municipal-level meetings, etc.) Throughout this process, intense
and frequent Bank supervision will be crucial in order to ensure the success of the approach. The monitonng
and evaluation done under Component 3 of the project would examine examples of the project's outcomes
(field measurements of actual benefits) for indigenous people.
Cultural property
The project would use simple Chance Find Procedures for cases of any new discoveries of archaeological or
other cu,tu.i prprerty dah-ring subprqe,knn   rnsnhurtin. This wil hp nperified in the nnontinnal manmial and
project State Contracts, as well as in the bidding documents for contractors.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Institutional sustainabhty The sustainability of investments in human and organizational capital depends on
the success of the efforts to professionalize services in municipal governments. These efforts will be
supported by the project through a focus of the institutional development component on improving different
maIageI lall p,-I ices, UEcludUnL IIUEAL IlIatJa' 6 1nmaeInent pFWII%Ea For  4U15 91.f, U 1 OUIU ar.dIUILINIS
personnel. The possibility to extend the period of the municipal administration beyond the present mandate
of three years (still under inforrnal discussion) may have a very positive effect on the sustamability of these
investments
Physicai sasarnabahy T ne sustainability of the infrastructure investments has been an issue of concern in
past projects. Supervision reports and evaluations by consultants showed poor preventive maintenance and
repair practices, causing a shortening of the useful life of facilities. The situation has changed for the better in
a limited way when all decision making was trnnsferred to local and community consideration. This transfer
of responsibilities should improve the concern for maintenance, repair and full use of the facilities vis-a-vis
investments in construction of new works. As practical support to better maintenance, the project proposes
both (i) to include rehabilitation of existing facilities as eligible items for the investment programs; and (ii)
include indicators of quality of service as part of M and E.



Page 20
2. Critical risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk t              Risk Rating f         Risk Minimization Measure
Project Outputs to      *  Project is unable to elicit     M        *   Permanent dialogue with all tiers of
Development Objectives     cooperation from municipal                  government to explore their expectations
and stare governments                       regarding coordination
*   COPLADEMUNs                    M        *   Comprehensive training and technical
ineffective in implementing                 assistance by STUs, CEDEMUN, to
high quality subprojects                    COPLADEMUTNs in effective subproject
implementation, 0 & M, use of standard
project designs.
*   Sub-hnrcts die nnt ta-et      rM                    r TEPMIN and STI Te to wn, ..A1k
the nural poor                              COPLADEMUNs to deepen
participatory processes at the municipal
level
*   Information campaign not       M        .   Design of information campaign for the
effective in creating project               project incorporates culturally
awareness and promoting                     appropriate media to convey project
social inclusion                            guidelines, stimulate the wide
involvement of all citizenry within the
municipality.
*   Communities do not             M        *   Information campaign, detailing project
effectively prioritize                      guidelines and mechanisms; promote
demands                                     social inclusion to wide participation
*   Changes in decentralization    S        *   Permanent dialogue with all stakeholders
policies affciL prujcji                      iudand policy alkcrs io perceive in
implementation.                             advance possible changes; study
technical and institutional issues
involved in those eventual changes and
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ___ __   [l __  [ maintain  a  flexible  approach
Project Components to  |    Inadequate or untimely          N        *   Counterpart funds are mandated by the
Outputs                     flow of counterpart funds                    Federal budget and are currently
allocated to the municipalities in a
*   COPLADEMUNs are not            N             timely fashion.
represen.qtatveb boe                   I    COPL AnEMUNsalraoA.     nne.-tof f
70% representation from potential
*   Subprojects are poorly         M            project beneficiaries.
maintained                               *   All subproject proposals require a plan
for their eventual O & M, to be
*   Unavailability of technical  I M             monitored by COPLADEMUNs for
assistance services to                       compliance.
COPLADEMUNs                              *   Funds are available through municipal
allocations firm Federal sources to
finance technical assistance; STUs
t l  l   l prepare annual plans to include technical
assistance and capacity-building
|-___________________________ I                       | ________________________________ _ I______________  activities.
Overall Project Risk Rating                            Moderate
Risk Raring - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Moderate Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



~~~~~r                                       C
N~                                                  U 



Page 22
Annex I
Mexico
Municipal Development in Rural Areas
Project LDesign Summary
Key Performance              Monitoring and                 Critical
Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators                 Evaluation                 Assumptions
[.n.,or-rela'.d CA S G>oal:                    tro                         at           :uua; .ouuuDa::
nrlpvryithStts nfas-utrsevcsfr Mncpllvlmaue porrrlMuissipal
rural poverty in teSae         ratutrsevcsfr            Mnipleelmeasured            poor rural municipal
of Guanajuato, Puebla,      the rural poor              by lsEGI                    govemments to manage
Veracruz and Zacatecas                                                              infrastructure leads to the
2. Operation of multi-level  2. Partnership Agreements      delivery of better services
programs for municipal      between CEDEMUN and         to the population,
development                 States;                     increasing their standards
of livinc
3. Coordinating Agreements
between States and
i   project Municipalities
Project Development         Outcome / Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
uDjecrive:                  inuicators toy type oi
municipality):
S Support mvestrnents in    I. Number of subprojects    1. Project Impact            I  Macroeconomic shocks
basic social and            implemented (by type of     Evaluation                  do not adversely affect
productive infrastructure,  subproject);                                            development gains
utilizing a proven                                  2.  Semi-annual project         achieved at the municipal
effective CDD approach;  2. Number of municipalities    implementation reviews       level.
reached;                                            2. Other sectors (e.g., health,
2. Strengthen municipal                                 3. CEDEMUN Monitoring           education, transport)
adnn.sttive a nd. a  Peen"'t,e of inhahitont   Report.' *   coblpicmeint subproject
technical capacity to       with access to basic rural                               investmnents made through
increase the efficiency of  infrastructure,         4   COPLADEMLTN reports         the project
municipal investments;                                  submitted to STU
and                      4  Percentage of inter-
municipal infrastructure
3   Deepen the ongoing          investnents (as percent
decentralization from       of total);
Federal to the State and
Municipal levels        5. Nurmber of
COPLADEMUNs trained
in improved management
and administrative
practices;
6. Rate of retention of
trained key municipal  lll
| civil servants.lll



Page 23
Ouitput firm e-             %u.p.. Iaudicators:      P1oject reporir                      uipfirl  aD;pi to ;Jujective)
Component:
1. Subpmjects for basic     I  Number, type of         1. Current reporting from   1. Project elicits cooperation
small-scale social and      subprojects                monitoring systems          from municipal and state
productive infrastructure                                                          govemments.
in participating        2. Number of subprojects   2   Aide Memoires of
municipalities.             operating and well         Missions.               2.  Information campaign
maintained one & two                                   effective in creating
2. Strengthened municipal       years after completion  3. Midterm Review              project awareness and
an-d sitpte-ievel capacity to                                                      nntino csia!Q
more effectively supervise 3  Costeffectiveness and                                inclusion
local-level investment      quality of basic
strategies; framework to   infrastructure subprojects                          3. COPLADEMUNs are
support the on-going                        .                                      effective in implementing
.  ~       ~~~ Ml Nimhpr nf czi hnniertt
decentralization process                                                           high quality subprojects
and Municipal               proposals submitted/year
development             5. Percentage of women in                              4. Subprojects reach the
COPLADEMUNs and                                        rural poor
3   Assessment of Impact
achieved under municipal                                                       5   Communities and
subprojects and associated 6. Number of Community                                  COPLADEMUN
institutional development   Associations panicipating                              effectively prionitize
in COPLADEMUNs                                         demands
which donit have
subprojects                                         6   Changes in
deceritralization policies
7. Number of municipalities                                do not affect project
with Social Action Plans.                              implementation.
Project Components I Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:            (from Components to
components:                 component)                |                            Outputs)
1. Municipal Subprojects    I USS518.0 million         |I. Semi-annual project    11.  Adequate and timely flow
* |X  mnlemaneoeIt;nn cnnrc  onf onhintermrrt fiinds
2. Municipal Development    2. USS 59.9 million
and Support for                                     2. Bank semi-annual         2  COPLADEMUNs are
Decentralization                                       supervision reports         representative bodies
3. Administration,          3 US$ 55.5 million                                         oupiuJcis in oC nign
Supervision, Monitoring                                                            quality and sustainable
and Evaluation
4. Technical assistance
services are available and
_____j                                                 j_____                          are used by
I     I                           I                          I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~COPLADEMUNs 1



Page 24
Annex 2
Mexico
M   ninir.In flevlInnmpnt in RiiraI Arpnc
Evaluation of the Decentralization and Regional Development Program
1. The general context
Tne DRD iii project is the third project under the Decentralization and Regionai Development (DRD)
program in Mexico As such, it has been conceived to support the decentralization drive in Mexico,
reflecting those issues that are at the core of the state of affairs in decentralization in the country.
Increasmg decentralization and strengthening the authority and capacity of state and local governments to
manage public finance, to establish investnent priorities and to provide basic small-scale infrastructure
services has been a central goal of the Federal government during the past decade.
Its predecessors, DRD I and DRD II, at their conception, reflected the state of affairs in 1990 and 1994,
respectively  The DRD I covered many subprogrmns of the then top priority Programa Nacional de
Solhdardad(PRONASOL), a comprehensive array of social programs to alleviate poverty. Within DRD I,
instituiionai Developm-ent was an accompanying concept, out not a program or a component itself.
Decentralization was understood mainly as an strategy based on the participation of Comudes de
Solidaridad, or interest groups supporting an individual work or action at the community level. The
PRONASOL was a highly centralized program, executed by the Federal Government through an
specialized agency (the present SEDESOL). Sub-national governments (at State and Municipal level)
played minor roles, if any.
DRD 11 started in 1995 with a slightly different scenano. Instead of covering the full array of programs of
PRONASOL, it concentrated in only four: Rural Water Supply, Rural Roads, Income Generation and
Municipal Investrment and Institutional Development. This last one was the main component and it was
al'so clue onc Au-C =ed when CP.e inc.W   Aof u^; - si   -1f     __'l Lospn encs -y 'uedciint
CflU  L~  Ui'.~  ~IOhiY.' Ui~iU".  iLii~ 3   ilL  UIM  aElA  U!  MRi LULjI ALL3 iaue WF ~  U1V, U"LfIUII LU
concentrate resources. The decentralization scheme under the DRD If was similar to DRD I until 1997
By the end of this year, there was a complete change in the scenario, following political changes at the
country level.
In the new scenario, the driving force behund DRD 11 shifted from alleviation of novertv to decentraliztion.
The former Municipal Funds program of SEDESOL (DRD If Municipal Investment and Institutional
Development component) became the Municipal Social Infrastructure Fund (MSIF), to be executed at the
Municipal level The Federal government delegated control over the program to the Municipalities and
communities, enabling them to exert decision-making powers to select and execute mvestments in small
works. ThisA derepf rfnwtn   nt n  a gal of rRn !, hilut i wae trnnmnItIv in line with it nncotumaitec which
suddenly upgraded from being paragraphs in the project Operational Manual to become articles in the
Fiscal Coordination Law that established the reform.
The proposed project - DRD [if - follows this reform. It seeks to support the decentralization drive by
strengthening the role and capacities of Municipalities to manage their responsibilities toward basic small-
scale social and productive infrastructure. The general concept of Municipalities mcludes both the Local
Administration (the Ayun:amzento, under the presidency of a Mayor or Presidente Municipal) and the
participatory councils that express the community demands. Under this scenario of decentralization, each
Municipality has autonomy to decide about its development, both physical (social infrastructure) and
institutional. The funding for this development comes from the Fedeml budget through legallv established,
transparent fonnulas that guarantee that no external authority can mterfere with Municipal decisions. The
formulas in the law are those developed during DRD 11.
Results under the DRD I and DRD 11
nnD rI 'In'l I94), s-ssed +La   e      of de-VennA-a;ion .n order o m..mprve the effe:;:eness of
municipal investments in basic social and productive infrastucture. The key lessons from this project
pointed to some specific problems, like: (i) spread of investments over too many sectors with a large



Page 25
numnber of implementing agencies; (ii) insufficient development of the technical capacity of SEDESOL;
and (iii) lack of strategy for the implementation of the productive investment component. '
The DRD 11 was designed as a continuation of the DRD 1. The project development objective of the DRD
11 was to increase access of rural poor and indigenous communities to basic social and economic
infrastructure and to income-generating activities, and thus alleviate poverty; and to strengthen the
institutional capacities at the state and local levels to assume greater responsibility in supporting rural
development. The govermment expressed strong interest in DRD 1I, which would continue and further
develop the successful experience of the first project, while expanding its geographical scope During the
implementation of the DRD 11 project, the government further defined strategies for accelerating the
decentralization process, improving the targeting and quality of investment programs and strengthening
state and local institutions involved in rural development and rural poverty alleviation.
The design of DRD II incorporated the lessons learned from the DRD I evaluation. First, the majority of
the project resources were directed to the MSLF, based on its successfui track record during the eariier
project and reinforced through enhanced monitoring and technical assistance. Second, other investments at
the state level were limited to three sub-sectors: water supply, rural roads, and mcome generating activities.
Third, as a consequence of the reduction of the scope and nature of the investments, the number of
implementing agencies was reduced in each state.
While DRD I emphasized investment prograMs implemented by both the states and municipalities, the
DRD 11 shifted the focus toward municipalities for the implementation of basic infrastructure, especially in
rural areas. Also, DRD 11 expanded the coverage from four to eight states, covering a total of 1,437
municipalities. While there were fewer sectors, the vast number of communities and subprojects created a
major chalienge for projeci implementation and supervision  ne Bank's lnnancing was aimed ai an
investment progran of USS1.I billion; most of the subprojects were subject to a cost ceiling of US$
$50,000.
The main component of DRD 11, the MSIF, was driven by community participation both in terms of the
cslection of nrntpec At/d in thir mn1pemenriion. Community participation in investment selection
effectively complemented the use of eligibility criteria and improved the quality and the relevance of the
selected projects The MSIF had been initially conceived in the DRD I as a small sub-component of that
project. However, due to its recognized success, its size was more than tripled through successive increases
of the budget allocations, so that DRD 11 effectively captured the importance of this vehicle in its design.
The DROD 11 started as a Federal investment program for rural communities with components that also
addressed institutional strengthening of Municipalities, States and the Federal government. It was then
caught up in a major institutional change, in 1998, which unexpectedly accelerated the process of
decentralization of the social infrastructure program towards the municipalities. Although it was not
anticipated at appraisal, DRD 11 had two well-differentiated phases:
a. from effectiveness to the end of 1997, it supported a federal prog-arn for municipal
infiastucture development, closely following the original institutional design, and
b. from 1998 to its closing in June 2000, it supported a program with the same content, but
rnno..naA.  ., m--nic-pa nn,.nntn  1'havn . konnes AdA n* m on .nificA ons of nthe
prOject
During the first phase, the implementation of the MSIF was largely successful, repeating the performance
of the earlier DRD 1. The quality of the implementation information improved gradually, although there
were significant lags with some of the indicators such as the proportion of investments in the municipal
seats (cabecera) and the rest of the municipality, where the poorer communities were located. The quality
of the output under the MSIF was satisfactory as indicated by the field audits. Based on a random sample of
subprojects for the eight states, the field review found the community-based projects of the MSIF to be
more efficient than those managed by outside contractors. The costs of community-managed subprojects
were found tn he lfl nerrent below the cnmparh1e Pcst ofVa cnntronr At the Same time, the qnality of the
subprojects that were managed by community groups (Comitds de Obras) was found to be significantly
1 See ICR for DRD 1, Loan 3310-ME, Report Number 16229-ME.



Pag* 26
beiter than the ones managed by the municinal govemment directltv This was alo due to the fact th
works decided by communcties wvere generally sinple and small-wsale. Comttis de 06as would have also
benefited from additional guidance and araming taexplkrulg alternative wibprojects
CommntitPty paricipatuon in the identificazton, design and implementation ofthe munic2pal subproJects was
mixed across the particip,atmg sates. One of the independent evaluations carsied out under Abe proect
wcocluded that the success of the subprojects was dependent on the degree of participation by the
beneficiaiy population.  Accodidg to supvision reports, participation In subprojec execution Was
considered good, in selection and mamaienance uneveni, ad m the design and control aspects only margiml
SEDESOL and some tates could have put mfore emphasis on the promotion of community panripttion
and ihe fimnftoning of the Comirts de Obras
Without pnor wamning, in December 1997, the Federal Congress inctuded the MS1F among the seven
national programs for which the Law of Fiscal Coordination was amended. This changed the rules of the
game regaudiig the tnsfer and manageemenl of FN4s to the States and Municipalities. creating a new
concept -that of Aportactanes-- and a mechanusm known as Ramo 33. Acvcrding ta this mnechanrsm,
budget finds alloated to cover the progra's actions would be transferred directly to the Stws and
Municipalities, withi no direct int.irention by FedeRal gncies.
These changes did not alter the objectives of the DI)D 11; however, the straegy to achieve those objectives
did change. It defacto established new clients at the smate level whose views of the prjtect varied. The
responsibiity shifted to the stares as reguiators and supervisors arid to the muicipaiicies as irndependem
entities with the authority to make thei own decisions regarding the applicatiin of hids to individual
social nifrastructume projects. The rekvance of the Bank's role was now in strengthening States' and
Municipalities' capacities needed for implementation of momloring and auditing under conditions of Romo
33, as well as in providing support to discuss options and naional and external expernences *hai may
conmbute to a better uderstanding and management ofdecentrlization processes.
Durmig this phase of impleicntaeion. the projec focuse  exclusively on the MFf, since the other
components had been cancelled by the April 1998 ainendmentlo the Loan AgreeTnent Sonme of the sWtes
had signed an agreement with the respective municipAities, which esalished ptiorities in the investment
program ,iou-tb as W&tet, e ici1tyuad rads   ut                  lr                      
the success of the MSFF, although peromance vaned In most of the mucticpalirws, the use of Cor6stie
Otirs for the contrcing ard supervision of works was contEnued and stegthened while in others
communmtes were basically providing the unskilled labor. In geteral, despite initial fears that the exit of
SEDESOL from the pwgram would have affeed impmenetation perfofmance he MSIF wntinued to
perform strongly with enhanced accountaility at the; Muncip  levci and good levels ot participatton.
Howover, the weak management capacity of many small municipalities was a mam soure of concern
ne ICR of DRD li concludes that the pwject was able to acieve its objec$ives of increasng access by
mural eanununities tO basic small-scale infiastructure and assisting wlki the government's decentrlization
>->rl"s, wte o  tr u LEvegO e Ps n.  q -tKelaw,sh :- L-. .r. )JC;
capital. The project helped to fluher solidrify lte success of the Municipal Fund Program through e
promotion of community participation The reliance oin standardized policies and procedures rinforced
fiscal disciplirte at th sate and municipal levels  The argeting of suproee(s, though sel-selection by
communites, was also good. Field supervision missions reported an improvement in the quality oF basic
srices delivered by the subprojects.
With respet to poverry trgeting, this project helped to intMiortalize the use -of formulas in the allocation
of investment resources, thus eliminating discreional and ad-oc approaches. The nev Law of Fisca
Coordination established explicit formulas and rquird that all States and Municipalities publish ite
< ....I..nA tn u.n .-I.nk        f- f   in '-*  w*il  w L  Ai;ii  .n u N flM-au Dot1h gTo -v. Sh
opertional Infirastriicttl supported by ttis project during its first phase, subsequently served ES a valuable
input for lhe Stales and Municipalities as they began to build their own inststutiornal framcwork under Ramo
33.
On the other hand. the development of institutional capacitY at tie mcsnicipal level could have been
enhanced The relatively shot duration of municipal governmets (a mayr is elected for a non-renewable
term of thee ytam5 combined with the limited resources earmarked for this purpose hindered the



possibilities to make a major contribution Co iIstitotiOnal deYelopMent issues at the munic;paf level, while
acknowledging- tsal the capaity of municipalities has improvd considerbly compared to where -a wi ten
years ago.
The legat and regatlsory framewark
The DRD IIl faces a more developed institutiona framework that the one that extsted during the second
picSe 1 VtJ   a. iJJl -ifI    Ls Isc iesuti uf a anvt io ueio-nuihc t   Pub1 admi±nation in o
context of renewed fderalism. As compared with the DRD It scenario, under the presen framework, ftere
is no Federal Secretary tesponsible for Mhunicipa  Inaentments -as was SEDESOL.  Rather, this
responsibility hs been devolved to Municipalities, together with khe requnes budgtay resoues. Where
thre was a national progm    wih a Unique 4 Opeational Manua, now thfere  e as many proamrs as
Munictpabttes, each one with f4lP autonomy to make its own demisons, following general guidelines staued
iii a law. Stare G:oveninents tat had a limtited role wider VDW 11 scenario, now are in charge of issu:ng
those guidelies and exerinmg control over technicl features of investments, while State Congresses took
the auditing role.
The min featrs of this legai and regulatory frameworkare deiled below
Flow  of finds.  The Federal Government transers   eources to Municipal govemments.
earmaring them for ve brad purposes defined As Funds. The liw defimes these purposes, as
well as the formulas to allocate lthse Funds, Erst among States and then, -where indicated -
among Municaiplitits. One of thse Funds is the Municipai Social infrasrucure Fand (MSIr)
The law is explcit In slating that in this transfer of finds, no one can introduce any condition or
cause sny delay, To enforce this, the Federa Government publihes, in January of each year, a
table of amounts and dates ror ie anslfats. Expedituzes made under MSIF are t be includied n
the Public Rert (Cuenta PaPilca) tat yealy each Municipality and the State Government Must
submit to te State Congress.
Allacafon crioeria. The criteria for allocating MSIF to each Municipality ar reflected 'a the
formulas This is a two stae process. In thte fist stage, a national budget for MSIF is alloated to
Lke 31 States and the Federal Distnct, through a fornula that measures poverty amass" across the
cowilty T-his formula assigns wv&ghts l4 gaps inl te sarisfacson of tive basic needs, mneasue at
th household level: (i) per capita income, with it weight of 46.2 %; (it) tverage scholarity, with a
weight of 12 S%, (iii) dwelKng size, with a weight of 23.9%; (iv) avaiJobility of drainage, wth
6.1 % and (v) avilablity of eectricity or cooking futel, with 11 3%. After computing an index
wth these vaiables for everY indnvidual husehold, it is sauand to make the subsebuent
distribution highly progessive. Finally, this value is mtiplied by the %izt of the household and
added to constitmte the 'smas` of poverty attributable to each state. The total envelope of the
national budget fiw MSSEF is allocated then La states according to its poverty mass.
In the second stage of the allocasion - to distribute the Sate's share among indiviual
Minictpslides - th6re are two aIlternative fon3ulas. Both wa  based on m uasements of social
deficits One is the very complex one used to distribute MSIF amnog stats and is scarcetly used
by states to distibute th swte shue amng Municipalities. The most common is a simplified one,
whgt gives equal wemgh to four indicatorn. (i) Municipal population whose incone is less than
-lw -Nmninu;m Wh0e4 as i cuan-   nfi'oh tni pont , naltk   h iL ghp   e q ,atI, I L.,  f .")
Municipal populaion over 15 yefrs that do not read or wite, as a percentae of the total
population  the same situatiow in the sate; (iii) Municipal population living in dweliings without
drain to spic tanks or stet collector, as a percentage of the total popu!ation an the same
sitution in the state, and (iv) Municipal popuiation living in panacuIar houses without access to
veu-ivity, as a pecenage of tie total popuiation in the same situation in tih s  Ai arguments
in the foimulas sam measured according to offifial sources defines yearly by the Federal
Goverment,
&iglbiUiv of investments The MSIF allows Municipalities to invs in works, basic social actions
.flt znvosl,>.to 3.. AN..s n f L...,U. k 4tC  ,s>s .l ,k..j_- : .r  t .L. pobzr~2  in  tc 
of- poteble  ter. sewage, drinage and larrer municuipal wtantzfion; etecrification of rural
areas mid poor neighborhoods, basic health infastruture, tmprovement of housing; basic



Page 28
educational infrastructure, rural roads, and productive rural infrastructure.  It also allows
Municipalities to spend up to 2% in Institutional Development activities, agreed with SEDESOL
and the State Government.  Another 3% of MSIF can be spent to cover indirect expenditures
associated with these investments.
General policies The MSIF defines five mandatory policies to be followed by States and
Municipalities: (i) to disclose to all inhabitants the list of subprojects to be implemented, with the
amounts of resources committed, their cost, location, goals and beneficiaries; (ii) to promote
community participation in defining destination of resources and surveillance over their actual use,
weCl!i 9C ner."tchnrti  u n  .rn,n"mr"ur.in  *exur"tsnrnnnnl,nn, m.,nrdt.;nrn  o .d r a:ng
subproject implemented; (iii) to report to all inhabitants, at the end of each fiscal year, of the
results achieved; (iv) to give to SEDESOL -through State government- the information over the
utilization of MSIF resources, and (v) to ensure that the works financed are compatible with
preservation and protection of the environment and support a sustainable development.
Partncipatoryprocess The participatory process referred to in policy (ii) above is regulated by the
Planning Law (i) each community in a Municipality must identify their needs in terms of ideas of
subprojects to be included in the actual annual Plan; (ii) each community must designate a
representative to take part un the COPLADEMUN, which includes as well, the Municipal
Presiden.t and the Cabhido (the elerted memhbert nf the local one.nmm.ent)f (iii) a!l suc roierts must
be proposed by community representatives to the COPLADEMUN of each municipality, where,
through consensus, a list of subprojects is selected for implementation, under the available budget
envelope.
Municipal Social Infrastructure Subprojects
Social infrastructure has been a prime concem in all DRD projects, which assume that Regional or Rural
Development is highly dependent on the enhancement of physical capital. The principal categories of
MSIF subprojects are shown in Table 1. They reflect pnorities as seen by communities as explained in
previous sections
Table I MSIF indicators, DRD II (percentages)
Subproject Cateory              GUANAJUATO PUEBLA          ERACRUZZACATECASI
[. Watersupply_                                        11.19     19.641      13.87        19.9
Z. Cnainage, sewage ano iatnnes                         6.1Y    iL3 It        I.3L,        i I u
3. Urban develoement                                   24.10     20 81       22 58        20 25
4   Rural electrification                               8.51      7.87       16.35        15.59
5   Infrastructure for health services                  5.06      7.41        4.53         2 00
,t...-.... : s fr_  J.u;.onal s&.                   8..7 o:5 tcv7         -.-.
IIIHObU UtL,LLIC 111 UUL,UL1%IUIII br.1VIL,C/                 I J.%JI     L. 7.         1.10
7   Housing improvement                     _           5.73      2.37        3.301        2 59
P. Rural roads improvement                             11.15      7 61       15 42         8.28
9   Rural productive infrastructure                     5.57,     2 30        I 9          2.23
VJ CL fl IT J TA IZ  gloQC                                       fig GAr02jA              an no
Other                                                  11.15|     3.20         1.56        9.92
TOTAL                                                 100.00    100.00      100.00       100.00
C., oyeas in Mimicipal Seat ACR^ecera'                 48 89      3 82       37 283?
Source. INDESOL-INEGI Encuesta Nacional sobre Desarrollo Insitucional Municipal 2000.
The subprojects chosen as priority investments by Municipalities following the participatory process
referred to above, are small-scale in natue Applying the threshold that is proposed for the eligibility in
the project -the same used by DRD ii- ite average costs of eLigible subprojects and the percentage ihey
would represent over the total of MSIF is given in Table 2



Page 29
Table 2. Average costs ofs projects eligible_
T                          (     Percent of
Works under
Average cost            Procurement
Subproject Category              (Dollars)             Thresholds'
Water Supply                                 15,086              98.590/c
Sewage                                       13,595              98.41%]
Dminage and latrines    1                    10,468              93.05%
Rural Roads             4                    14,159              84.33%°
Urban Electnfication                         13,226              90.96V1
Rural Electrification   j                    15,505               86.42°M
Street Lighttng        4                                         2,f9J
Infrastructure for Health                    10,763              96.78
Infiastructure for Education                  7,506              99.330/
Productive Infrastructume                     5,gg4              95.450
uaS0,000 for m[o t subptrsuu s ects u.,a   fur WL[ "aLer Supply, Sewage auid inaig7e aid MLatrines)
Source: Fondo de Infraesrructura Social Municipal Indicadores de Impaclo 1998-2001
In general, the subprojects correspond to standard or modular designs, given the similarity of problems and
nnnilnktinn Qi7Wp nhserved in the niral onmmiunitieSq AR ohservedl durina the suinervision nf nrn it and
field visits during the preparation of the proposed DRD 111, the technical quality attained by the vast
majority of the subprojects was acceptable with regard to their structural characteristics. Where problems
were found, they were mainly with respect to finishes, as in the case of the construction of classrooms,
where the deterioration of the paintwork and cracking of plasterwork is a relatively frequent problem.
',fl.  was no .n. iw.ion thao the U.drlA .A- pj                      -k.knrda ne si  re  o4,
I IL,*  ITO   * _ - iii .4l"*   Sf141 .J*  _il  -.,.-..s  U~%j. t.  VW4  iiiWS '-1  .UUDWi 1-a,..
The subprojects are approved on the basis of a technical file, which stipulates the standards that must be
applied in each of the items that form the project. The regulatory parameters in these technical documents
are usually formiulated and developed by specialists in the different State government agencies responsible
for the sector to which the subproiects belong Construction standards are also issued on the Dart of the
suppliers and manufacturers of the supplies and materials. The technical design of each subproject is made
within the standards recommended, based on (i) a predetermined (modular) pattem or (ii) non-modular
actions, for which design alternatives are ad hoc for the whole subproject. In both cases, the designs
contain specifications (dimensions, qualities, resistance, costs, etc.) that constitute the best option according
tn the denmsnd tn he cnvered
It is very common that subpriject specifications detail the use of various types of material (e.g., wood,
stone, clay, reed grass), depending on availability, climatic conditions and cost, and also recommending
construction procedures and systems with appropriate technology, provided the functioning of the
subopr-ects is n.ot 0a`.ec:w~ or Ifihie Sope rcdutced.I "s aly  Lese ale..:ie  -eLwugib  .- Federl
auujuj~ta tasluta.'~~tw s uiiu  iUUL~U. JauaiJj, ul%3.u~  i~iai  air, UIVUKl5;U U)' uin rcucuaa
and State governments, through manuals, leaflets, workshops and seminars of technical dissemination,
aimed at State and Municipal authonties. Consequently, there is little to innovate in subproject design. For
the particular case of rural municipalities, the subprojects may reach the level of efficiency provided for in
their design, if priority attention is given to their proper and adequate execution, and if the subprojects are
operated and maintained under precise schemes and they adhere to the corresponding standards.



Page 30
At present, a high proportion of subproject execution is entrusted to third-party contractors. There are very few cases
where the community itself has the responsibility of executing the subproject. However, there are certain activities,
such as the digging of foundations where the potable water pipeline will be placed, which may well be done by
communities with machinery labor, without requiring specialized knowledge.
Table 3 Selected problems with infastructure investments as seen by Mayors
I Tuanajuato    Puebla     J Veracruz    1 Zacatecas
I A-e 01- AX / pAlftion                                -7 Br7C/1  1 +9 f  0 Qa  ino/ 1 I  oo/ i
Lack of contrbutons from communities     0 00%        0.46% v      5.24%        7 02%
Lack of technical abilities              0.00%        2.76%   1    1.43%        5.26%
Lack of administrative abilities        13.04%        6.45%        10.00%       8.77%
Problems with Contractors                0.00%        0.00%        0.95%        3.51%
Source- INDESOL-INEGI Encuesta Nacional sobre Desarrollo Insrunicional Municipal 2000
Municipalities in the participant states
Mex-ican niunicipaiities are part of' a meuerwi sichieC uhat gives uther spcific r1spunsiUbilics tUwaids Lne provision
of public services to the population Mexican federalism has three levels of govermrnent: Municipal, State and
Federal. From the political perspective, the three levels of government are widely independent one from the other,
but from the fiscal viewpoint, there is clearly a strong unbalance, where the Federal government in the last 20 years
has collected about 90% of all public revenues. This fiscal structure was followed by a complex structure of
transfers from the federai to the rest of the ievels of government, which made the balance of the spending structure
less dramatic, but similarly concentrated in federally-led programs. It is a common feeling that the strong
dependence of sub-national governments on Federal transfers and action programs is slowing down development,
diminishing accountability and reducing the efficiency of public investment. As a reaction to this undesired
situation, from 1995 on, some sectoral prograns began to be decentralized to State governments (mainly education
and health), transferring administrative responsibilities and the budget needed to cover current costs.
Although the 2,427 Mwnicipalities invest yearly about US$2.0 billion in small-scale infrastructure works and
another US$2 0 billion in other public programs, they have serious deficits in human, technical and organizational
capacities to manage efficiently. Municipal administrations are elected for three year terms without the possibility
of irmediate re-election. Fur ihe staies participating in tle DRD  ihe periouds of present Administraions are:
GUANAJUATO        PUEBLA             VERACRUZ          ZACATECAS
BeMRnnina*:       frtnkr 200l0      FeHnni 002         2n      20Q !A1   September 200 l
End:              October 2003      February 2005      January 2005      September 2004
In the case of Veracruz, as an exception, the present authorities will last 4 years in office to make Municipal
elections coincide with state elections.
The authorities elected are a Presidente Municipal (Mayor) and several Regidores (Aldermen) whose number
depends on the size of the Municipality. Together, they constitute the Cabdido, which is the body that heads the
Municipal Administration.  T'he following table shows some basic indicators about Cabzldos and Municipal
personnel in the four states participating in the project (Table 4)



Page 31
Table 4 Selected indicators of Municipal personnel
Municipal personnel           GUANAJUATO j        PUEBLA         VERACRUZ       ZACATECAS
|Mayors                     |       46       j      217       [      210       j      57
Previous experience as Mayor      10.87%           5.53%            5.24%      |    7.02%
Males                            97.83%           97.24%           94.29%      |   98.25%
Speaks indigenous language        0.00%           23 04%           19.52%           0 00%
rflW.WS 4.JAI;      -. retter  a                  6r h^"          72 )^ K1 75I  %A -  C   A 65.24-  8 46%
;Adermen                           471             1,985             856             766
Males                            84.71%           91.84%           85.51%          80.03%
f/ih rank officers                 790             2,247            1,058            865
Male                             81.65%           92.12%           86.86%          79.88%
Alpersonnel                      20,100           18,521          25,552           10,059
Male                        |    79 13%           75.08%           72.47%          75.11%
Source: INDESOL-INEGL Encues/a Nacional sobre Desarrollo Instisucional Municipal 2000
Cabildos meet as frequently as needed, ranging from a yearly average of 18 times in Zacatecas to 33 times in
Veracnrz. Some of the sessions are open to public participation. The Municipal personnel generally changes when
a new Presidenle Municipal takes office. As an average, less than 10% of all personnel have more than 3 years of
experience in their jobs. This is a serious problem that has deep cultural roots reflected in the understanding that
employees at ai i cvvi; ni- totwaly dependuent on pledging personal loyalty to me Presidenie Municipal, which causes
incoming presidents to replace existing personnel with new one whose loyalty is assured. This situation is long-
lived, but its consequences are strongly felt today, as Municipalities are receiving new responsibilities devolved to
them in a process of decentralization that accelerated in the last five years, not only in terms of the Ramo 33 reform
referred in the legal framework section, but in terms of amendments to Article 115 of the Constitution as well. This
Article defines the fields of action of Municipalities, either by themselves or in association with state governments:
its last amendment broadened the field of responsibilities, to cover most of public services.
Table 5 shows the degree of direct involvement of Municipal governments in the management of different services,
for the four participant states:
Table 5. Percentage of Municipal Governments that have direct management of services
Dlirect management of municipal| IGUANJUAT
kservices mana8eent o   n   aPUEBLA                            |VERACRUZ       [ZACATECAS      I
Water supply                       65 22%           77.42%         44.29%           71.93%
Dainage, sewage and latrines       76.09%           74.19%         66.19%           77.19%
Street lighting                    71.74%           83.87%         57.62%           84.21%
Public secuity                     86.96%           90.32%         80b48%           82.46%
I ransit and circuiation (signals)  e2 0 61%   L     i .u0u0        4.29%/o         17.54%/D
Street cleaning                    89.13%           78.80%         90.00%           91.23%
Street pavement                    43.48%           76 04%         67.62%          49.12%
Market places                      54.35%           44.70% °e      41.43%           31.58%
kemeteries                         71 74%           88.48%         9i 90%           89.47%
Abattoirs                          54.35%           10.60%         41.43%           66.67%
Parks and Garden conservation      76.09%           83 87%          84.76%          92.98%
Fublic transportation              47.83%           14.29%          5.24%           3.51%
S      oWrne:  CVfDlI,A. CCI Cn0nnn ?Jas,nmnl c-..eA. fln..i...,'I... I.i..;,...'..I .pl onn



Page 32
The rest of Municipalities either have agreements with the Federal or the State governments to provide the services
or have some special arrangements with private groups or do not provide the service.
I isiual the nrannintinn nerso.nnel sind hiluIopt nppdiprd to nprVnrm thpep fimnrtmnnc AsFP not t4iffprpnti;tPA within th
administrative structure and their costs are not clearly identified from the rest of activities of the Municipal
Administration. Between 1995 and 2000, the total of Municipal servants increased in about 60%, reflecting both the
additional responsibilities and the increase in resources transferred to Municipalities from the Federal government.
There is broad consensus that the enhanced role that Municipalities are playing as the decentralization drive
continues devolving functions to them, is not coherent with the fragility of the management of their human capital.
Two proposals are currently addressing this situation: (i) enlarging the Municipal period to allow more time between
turnovers of Presidentes Municipales, and (ih) professionalizmg Municipal personnel through better organized
training and the development of schemes of Civil Service Careen Component Two of the DRD Ill will support
Instititinnal Development programs in the three levels of Govermment that rointlv develon these last annrnasches=
The main single development in decentrlization has thus far been the Ramo 33 reform starting 1998. This reform
not only gave Municipalities command over small infrastructuie spending, but transferred totally to Municipalities
the responsibility for their own development. Only in scattered cases State Governments established co-fianced
programs to assist municipalities in their institutional development needs. In other cases, Municipalities were left
alone to address individually the design of their own institutional development. These actions are to be approved by
the corresponding state government and by INDESOL, but neither states nor INDESOL had additional funds
allocated to them to support municipal institutional development. In the four states participating in the DRD III,
there are different experiences in managing Institutional Development. In PuebIa, the State government offers
willing Municipalities to join efforts by pooling resources in a strong Institutional Development Progam. In
Veracruz, the preferred scheme is to make use of scattered resources from different programs and convene actions
with INDESOL Zacatecas has a mixed approach, where the State govenment contracts distance-training programs
with instiuto Tecndlog:co de Monterrey to cover partially the needs of Municipalities, leaving the rest to their
individual mitiatives.  Component Two proposes to support Institutional Development according to these
appnroaches, but simultaneously develon crm-minpport achvities among these experiences.
The irnportance of the Ramo 33 reform over Municipal income was decisive. Although on the average the new
transfers doubled municipal budgets, the pro-poor and pro-rural bias of the formulas meant that for some
Municipalities the impact was even larger. This impact has been growing as Ramo 33 resources have grown (Table
6).
Table 6 MSIF Transfers to Municipalities in selected states (USS million)
i        1-   1998 gg     1999       2000        2001          2002
Guanajuato  |   46.3        64.2        79.0        96.7         106.3
Puebla      j   64.6        93.3  _    118.9        145.5        164.7
Veracruz        90.3        134.2      174.7       213.8         231.3
Zacatecas       23 3        27 6        29.0        35.4         40.6
Source: Staff calculations
MSIF is only about half of Ramo 33 transfers. Another Fund, Municipal Strengthening, is slightly larger than MSIF
and is distributed on an equal per capita basis.
The acquired responsibilities towards investments in small infrastructure puts more importance in the existence and
enforcement of Municipal normatives, regulations or by-laws to regulate or serve as guidelines for the decisions of
design or implementation of the different works. Precisely, this is one of the fieids to be covered by C:omponent 2 of
the proposed project Table 7 shows the situation found by the Institutional Development Survey of 2000, the most
recent comprehensive study available, although still unpublished.



Page 33
Table 7. Development of municipal nornatives and itns  ercente of Municipalities that have each)
|:                             [GUANAJUATOI      PUEBLA    I VERACRUZ [ZACATECAS
onstruction of works         56.52%         42.86%         2.38%        45.61%
Zoification and land use     36.96%         19.35% _      27.14%        36 84%/
nvirounment protection        52.17%        18.89%       p9.05%          22.81%
P ass           ._                    _ _ _.                _ _      _    __=  I
velopment plan              65.22%          6.08%        69.52%         92.98%
rban development               58.70%        20.28%     _   5.71%         36.84%
Environment improvement plan   43.48%        23.50%        25.71%         26.32%
Source: INDESOL-INEGI. Encuesta Nacional sobre Desarrollo Institucional Municipal 2000. Unpublished
The focus on rural areas and Indigenous population
The project will focus on rural municipalities in each of the four participating states.  Rural municipalities are
UCdLCu as UiUSC where 1Il-Ui tUWIn 30 pleI.VenI 05 Uhle pOp-UILIlOn lives in iocaiitiCs uf ,300 iIuiUOiLui-ls or iess. nits
criterion was complemented with a second characteristic that included municipalities with 30 percent or more of the
population speaking an indigenous language The final list contains 344 of the 530 municipalities of the four states,
with 5.8 million inhabitants, including almost a million of indigenous language speakers (Table 8). This population
constitutes the prime target group of beneficianes of Component One of the project, while the full 15 7 million of
inhabitants are beneficiaries of Component Two.
Table 8. Project Targeting, DRD Il1
I_ TnT i                JIGUANAJUATOI PUEBLA        |VERACRUZ IZACATECASI         TOTAL
unipaities                      46           217   [      210   |5_7--J              530
Locaities                      8,932        6,556        22,032        4,882       42,402
Population                  4,049,950    6,337,62  {     lAj8,108   1 ,188,724   15J694,144
Indiaennus sneakinR            10629       565-509      6111 72        1 R17      I 211 407
PROJECT4141
Municipalities         _         28           142          138            36          344
Locaities                      5,761        4,065        15,250        296          27972
Population                  1.346.634   I 1.336.313   2.576.549       511.898     5.771.394
indigenous speaking    [E      3,974   |   433,684      545,593          692       983,943
Source: Calculations with data fiom INEGI Census 2000
Another feature is the presence of the indigenous population. Tmne situation in Puebia and Veracruz differs markedly
from that of Zacatecas and Guanajuato. In these last two states, the presence of indigenous language speakers (ILS)
is well below 0 5% of the total population and dispersed in non-rural spaces. In Puebla and Veracnrz, the situation
is clearly different, with a presence of more than 10% of the population able to speak indigenous languages. The
concentration of this population is in the rural areas covered by the project. Table 9 zooms in on this issue,
classifying Municipalities according to the density of Indigenous Language Speakers (ILS) within each
Municipality.



Page 34
Table 9 Concentration of Indigenous Language Speaking (ILS) population
U2DALdrIIT                                  DWITLDi A
I ,,        . V'.ACDE'                 I                EurVCx 
Range of        __                         Percentage of   _    _    k     _    _    Percentage of
concentration  Municipalities Number of ILS  Total ILS   Municipalites Number of ILS   Total ILS
>50%               35      _   382,3D1       70.07%           44         295,696       68.18%
20% to 50%         14         112,614        20 64%           18         107,200       24.72%
5 to 20%           16                         3.46%           20         258165 95%
< 5%                73_3_ _31774              5      82%      60          4,972          I .1 5%
Total              138         545,593                        142       _ 433,684
Source: Calculations with data from rNEGI Census 2000
Over two thirds of the ILS population lives in Municipalities where they constitute the majority of population, while
another 20-25% of ILS live in Municipalities where they have a strong presence and likely have an influence in
participatory investment decisions. Over 90% of all ILS in each State -the bulk- live in Municipalities where they
do constitute either a majority or have an environment where they have a decisive weight in the decision making
process of MSIF. The rest of ILS live scattered in other Municipalities
The overall mdicator of the socio-economic condition of the inhabitants of a Municipality is the degree of
marginality measured by the National Population Council (CONAPO). As it can be seen from Table 10,
LVL*I II'E|GELJ3li"                       VI111150 '- *i-6- C--L  £ LIf  Cit  IV'u JvI MIt vl, millE li? IV  tIy WJVw I-VuklmUpaEELEzt
were included and less than 3% of Municipalities rated as "Low".
Table 10. Condition of Marginality of participant Municipalities
I                 _      IGUANAJUATO jPUE3LA           JVERACRUZ __ACATECAS kOTAL                I
Very High                       2              51            61             -            114
High                             3             35            41            4             83
Medium                          22             56            35            24            137
Low                              I              -             I            8             10
Nery low                         0                                   I _ _         I      0      |
STotal  St28 N                                142 _J        138      |     36      1    344      J
Source: Sistema Nacional de Informacion Municipal. CEDEMUN Web Page www cedemun gob mnx
iin teIir  t4LCm     IIIIaUUtLUZ £UUU ¶L.CIMW1 s1vvZ 11unuiLEirnIu OUVUL UWVEII1IW? WILII ~4IV WCLrf,
In ieis of access to intrastrLC.-LU se,ie, .1ke 00Cnu    ,vsif..ainao;delnsw                 aewtr
electricity and drainage. Veracruz is the state with larger deficits, while Guanajuato and Zacatecas lare much better.
Drainage is the service where all states show a major weakness. Table 11 shows average values for the access to
these services.
Table i i. Participant municipailtles Access to seiected services
Private                   I P
Dwellings   GUANAJUATO PUEBLA VERACRUZ ZACATECAS
93.39%     I 87.95%      81.37%       93.54%
Electricity
87.75%       73.81%     56.55%        82 83%
Current water      _                    I _ 
55 83%       35.34%     p.09%         55.29%
urainage                   I         I ____ I
Total    J    301,785    | 303,913 | 630,376         127,282
Source: Calculations with data from INEGI Census 2000



Annex 3
Mexico
Municipal Development in Rural Areas
Detailed Project Description
The project aims to reduce the incidence of rural poverty in rural areas of participating states by (i) supporting
investments in basic small-scale social and productive infrastructure, utilizing a proven effective community-driven
development (CDD) approach, (ii) strengthening municipal administrative and technical capacity to increase the
efflcirncy of municipal inves.ent, nd (finii deep;ning te ongon, d.ceni..tion fiornm cede,l.A.I t  St*e .,A
Municipal levels. The organizational arrangements to be inplemented at the municipal level, re-emphasizing the
strengthening of the new federalism process promoted by the Federal governnent and centered in Councils of
Municipal Development and local Community Committees, together with the opportunity given to the rural poor to
manage investments that improve their quality of life, constitute the main source of the project Impact.
Project Component I - Municipal Subprojects (US$518 million or 81.8 percent of total project cost)
This component seeks to improve the coverage of the access to basic services of the population of Municipahtties in
rural areas of Guanajuato, Puebla, Veracruz and Zacatecas. Eligible Municipalities for this component are those that
either (i) have more than 50% of their population living in localities with 2,500 inhabitants or less, or (ii) have more
than 30% of their population (over five years old) speaking an indigenous language. The Operation Manual will
contain the list of eligible Municipalities.
To .ach    goal, te componenU will support 1nvestme..Ss u bastic so_.a! .an produc:ive -;4-i-3u%f  3UUpIOIJ
undertaken by Municipalities to enhance or improve the access of the population to potable water, sewage, drainage
and latrines, municipal urbanization, electrification of rural areas and poor neighborhoods, basic health
infiastructure, basic educational infrastructure and productive rural infrastructure.  The component would also
finance, where indicated, rehabilitation of existing small-scale social and productive infrastructure, such as those
listed above  Each subproject will have a maximum cost of $50,000, except the investments in water supply,
sewerage and dramage, that will have a ceiling of 1 00,000
Subprojects would comply with a cycle including the following generic steps. The Operation Manual will contain
details and proper institutional references according to the nomenclature of each state.
1) All subprojects ideas must be proposed by community representatives to the Municipal Planning and
Development Council (COPLADEMUN) of each municipality. The COPLADEMUN is a broad-based council
that includes representatives of all localities (at least 70 percent of total participants on the council are
representatives of potential project beneficiaries) with voting power. This participatory assembly must finally
seIeeL U'Ie isL of suUp-JVects on WIchIL  UI lYIuJILpliiLty will invest the avaiiaiieri irsoues.
2) After a subproject proposal has been selected, the Municipality should prepare an Frpedsenre Tdcnico
(Teclhnical file). This should include, at least'
* Legal evidence that the idea has been selected as described above;
*   Description of the procurement arrangements selected to execute the sub-project;
* Evidence of the agreement of beneficiaries to co-finance part of the works, either in monetary terms or in
kind;
* Nomination of a person to be the speaker of Contralorla Social, which is the comununity group that will
oversee the execution of the work;
* A set of simplified formats with technical specifications: (i) basic information about the subproject; (ii)
budget; (iii) sketch of macro and micro localization; and a Validaci3n. or feasibility resolution written by
the Normative Agency, according to the nature of the subproject (water, electricity, etc);
* An enguieenng analysis (only in exceptional cases where technical complexities are present). Usually, this
analysis is carried out by the Nornative Agencies in the state;



Page 36
*   An Envuronmental Checklist;
*   Permnits and authorizations depending on the technical features of the work;
*   Timetables and schedules;
*   The whole list of subprojects to be invested on by the municipality.
3) The Technical File should be cleared by State authorities as defined in the Operational Manual before the
Municipality may start execution according to the procurement arrangement chosen.
4) During execution, State authorities, as defined in the Operation Manual, monitor physical and financial
progress Also beneficiaries exert their nghts to control through the Contralorla Social spokesperson in the
Comird de Obras.
5) At the conclusion of execution, the subproject is received by the community association in a formal act.
6) The municipality must compile an integrated file (Erpedaente Uniario), where all relevant data and facts
(documents, photographs, etc.) are to be included and kept for at least five years.
Project Component 2 - Municipal Development and Sunnort to Deeentraliztion (US$59.9 mi.lonr 9.5
percent of total project cost)
The overarching purpose of this component is to strengthen the capacities of Municipal Administrations to improve
their performances in the delivery of the services that are under their responsibility. The strategy of the component is
better understodu when its t-wo sub-components are considered together: ro work simuitaneousiy at the municipal
level -strengthening their intemal organization through different Institutional Development actions-, and at the
uistitutional environment level, looking to improve the external conditions that influence Municipal development.
Subcomponent 2.1 - Strengthening of organizational capacities of Municipalities (US$22.2 million)
The sub-component will be executed by the states through their own actions and agreements with Municipalities.
At the Municipal level, the subcomponent will support municipal institutional development programs to cover the
development or improvement of technical and administrative competencies of Municipal administrations, as well as
the nmmntinn of oneil nroarli7^tinfi of r-nmmliniti S, to allow thenm to mon-o nm- -rIsj deI.nthzed pmgA r. nd--.
resources. Among the activities included m this broad definition are (a) training of Municipal personnel; (b)
technical assistance hired to improve activities in the subproject cycle, specially the technical, economic and
environmental design of the subprojects; (c) hiring of technical assistance to improve organization or processes, or
to prepare new by-laws and regulations; (d) hiring of studies to diagnose relevant issues in municipal life and
propose solutions, including maps, cadastre and the like; (e) wnrting of Manuals, Guidelines and the like to
disseminate municipal regulations; (f) technical assistance to implement financial management, reporting, etc; (g)
identification and dissemination of good practices in the delivery of municipal services, (h) capacity building to
communines to enhance their participation during the subproject cycle; (i) studies to diagnose, monitor and/or
evaluate the performance of municipal programs (e.g.. Autodiagnosticos and Social Action Plans); fil technical
assistance to design, implement and measure indicators that depict progress in the improvement of municipal life;
and (k) technical assistance to strengthen environmental screening, assessment and enforcement actions. The list is
not exhaustive, since the concept of municipal institutional development refers to the objective, not to the means
employed to reach the goals. Other activities may be considered. It excludes equipment, study trips and civil works.
At the state level, the sub-component will support agreements between the State govenument and the Municipalities
to pool resources for Institutional Development. By pooling resources, economics of scale can be exploited. A
standard state/municipal agreement would mean that Municipalines engage all or part of their municipal institutional
development budget in the pool, while the state governument adds money of its own The pooled resources are used
to nrovidep tiflrfant sepuirpc to PiAmmncil aouprmmpntc, such as: studard Ir;n;inn1 hnt 1n-s a-soIn.ce, tn ,.Lcal .nd
legal assistance, and the like.
The sub-component proposes to develop a set of performance indicators to measure, on a current basis, the quality
of municipal management in each Municipality. These measurements would show relative strengths and weaknesses
of Municinal Administrations in different fields such as planning and execution of MSIF, cost recovenv, tax



Page 37
collection, environment protection and the like. The inforrmation provided by this set of indicators would be the base
for Te-directing municipal institutional development programs and for or-ganizing horizontal cooperation. The
performance indicators would serve, in the finure, as a foundation for the implementation of a incentive system that
would ruward sus-tined prog-esS iin manigement practices. Tnis incentive system does noi exist at present and its
implementation is not part of the component, but the strategy the component will follow during this operation would
have the likely impact of paving the road to the future establishment of an incentives system.
The Institutional Development programs may be individual for each municipality, or be collective programs in
wIhic1 JunicpalI:ies pvo' UL11 L4U OU6,E1 f4os IhiLI3s, ur a LUiIIIISLIUIE Ut VI uIIUVIUUdl mig  uiicuuve
components. When Municipalities pool the total or part of their Institutional Development resources -with or
without additional financing from the State or the Federal government-, the full common program will be eligible
for disbursement When Municipalities do not pool resources, only the Institutional Development activities of the
Municipalities eligible under the criteria of the Social Infrastructure Component will be eligible for disbursement.
Sub-component 2.2 - Development of the Institutional Framework (US$37.7 million)
This subcomponent will support programs and activities to enhance and improve the network of institutional issues
that frame the development of Municipalities. The Sub-component will be executed by CEDEMUN, through its own
actions and its agreements with participating States. Among the fields that the subcomponent will address are: a) the
constitutional and legal framework that regulates the scope of Municipal life, b) regulations on Municipal Human
Resources administration, including the conception and design of Civil Service Career approaches; c) Certification
of competencies in the Municipal environLment; d) transfer of faculties, functions and responsibilities from the
Federal to the State and Municipal orders of government: e) strengthenine of Municipal finances- f) development of
E-government at the Municipal level; g) promotion of citizen's participation in local govern ments to support the
design, implementation and evaluation of local public policies; and (h) provision of computer hardware and software
to support the institutional development of municipalities and CEDEMUN.
The list is not exhaustive. Eligible activities for this sub-component include training, technical assistance,
dissemination, consultation workshops, surveys and other studies to diagnose, propose, implement, monitor or
evaluate reforms to the framework.
Project Component 3- Project,Support, Supervision, Monitoring and EvaluatIon (USS 55.5 millIon or 8.7
percnt of tofel! nrnot rncts
The purpose of this component is to provide technical support to the execution of the entire project to ensure quality
of individual subprojects and appropriate overall project control.
*   At the municipal ievel, the component will support pre-ivestment and accompanying activities that are not
included in the subproject costs, such as technical designs, on-the-field support and supervision during
execution of subprojects and physical inspections.
*      A t h  1   t- ctatn lvtPli the ernmrtnndn*  aAi c..n,nirt at.AIAn *r. A.,.d.n.. ..........................L........^ etat.-. .'.'.  Anv i..t
-0 ... M.C.I.~^ ^^rrr -V..   *Sfl- -u  FLF, .aLuas. ', v>tuU UMUIU UJV.,
and the implementation and functioning of STUs, excluding salaries. It will also support the upgrading of the
existing MIS systems of each participating state.
*   At the NPCU level, the component will support activities to monitor, supervise, evaluate and audit the
implementation and functioning of overall project It will also support the upgrading of the MIS system of
NPCU (excluding salaries), as well as the provision of computer hardware and software.
Project Oversight The National Center for Municipal Development (CEDEMUN) will undertake project oversight
and overall coordination of pmroect activities in the particinating states- CPDFMITN will annrnve the Annuail
Operating Plans for the Project and supervise the application of project resources to the participating states.
Project Coordination: STUs in the participating states will be charged with the following specific duties: (a) review
community subproject proposals for compliance with project guidelines and eligibility criteria in the project
Onerntinnal MasnnI; (b .iinnerviuk  the PrfPJ.AfFMITNM cn tpn a,.- the. o Ae .-a ..i.   q        
subproject implementation and providing sufficient training support to communities; (c) provide technical assistance



Page 38
to all COPLADEMUNs (including training on subproject implementation, contracting options, O&M and financial
management), (d) prepare an annual operating plan for the project activities in the state and submit to CEDEMUN,
(e) tram municipalities in conducting diagnostic profiles and development and execution of Planes de Gesucin Social
SoeicaI Actinn Dlnncd  I  mnnitnr nerfnrmnnre thrnlich the Mannaement Information System  (MIS) and
periodically report progress to CEDEMUN, (g) prepare annual implementation and physical performnance reviews;
and (h) submit required subproject documentation to CEDE MUN for preparation of SOEs to be submitted to the
Bank.
Finally, tne ST-us win; cunduct statiewide UiiUHITIUII unupwgIN LV oU cuiiiiuuuay dissemiate inforra ion abou; the
project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary communities, thereby increasing awareness, transparency and
participation in the program The information campaign is being designed to ensure that all potential beneficiaries,
including minority groups, have access to the project and its benefits; it also incorporates culturally appropnate
media to effectively convey project guidelines and stimulate the wide involvement of all citizenry within the
municipality. The preparation ot an action plan for the information campaign in each participating state, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a condition of state participation in the project.
Project operational procedures: The proposed project would be implemented according to detailed procedures
defined in its Operational Manual. This Manual builds on content used under the previous project (DRD 11), but has
been improved and updated, based on lessons learned from its implementation experience The Operational Manual
consolidates the objectives, mechanisms and procedures under the project for ready reference by the participating
states. A user-frendly manual will also be made available to the COPLADEMUNs for their use in training
communities about the project.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Analysis of project implementation will depend on a database drawn
from the project Management Information System (MIS). The project MIS used under the previous DRD 11 is being
updated to incorporate international best-practices for use in the proposed project. The MIS consists of three
components: (a) a subproject information module, which contains pertinent physical and financial information for
each subpkj,ert e-ecuted hi the CflPT.A rlPM MNc- (b) a financial mrRnapement module- maintained by CEDEM1TN_
from which Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) are generated, using data provided by the participating states, and (c)
a project management module, from which all project reports are generated
The project would also undertake evaluation studies to assess the impact from the subproject mvestments and the
-- -  A--- -  ~~~  ~       -. .L.. C_A_.I O+.... --A    1-1niThe ..  so.u... - nc -u.1iA
activities surruunuuing iuntituuutial uvVLujiiiCiiLt a; uie I  ra1I, SIe  -a L-L M Lc.p  -- lve.  -  --a
also provide feedback to improve future project operations. These evaluations would entaii: (i) annual physical
performance reviews to assess the quality and sustainability of common types of fInanced subprojects, including
reviews of municipal-based procurement; (ii) an evaluation/implementation review, carried out at mid-term, to
include beneficiary consultations to evaluate project performance and impact as perceived by its beneficianes; and
(iii) a rigorous and comprehensive impact evaluation. Furthermore, as parit of the uverall evaluation fraHlmework, tihe
project would contract an external and independent assessment of the participatory approach. (i) to determine the
extent to which social inclusion has been maximized, (ii) to validate the effectiveness of the training regarding the
autodiagn6stco and the Social Action Plan; and (iii) to develop recommendations and alternatives (as needed) to
improve the participatory approach.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The financial management systems to be used by
CEDEMUN and the participating states were reviewed by a Bank Financial Management Specialist dunng project
preparation for compliance with OP/BP 10 02. Based on this review, the project was certified "B". Under the
proposed project. CEDEMUN will enhance project accounting and reporting procedures to fully comply with Bank
requirements. The annual financial audit of the project accounts will also include a separate opinion on the
eligibility of expenditures disbursed on the basis of SOEs. According to arrangements for Bank-financed projects in
Mexico, the annual financial audit of the project accounts for the period January I to December 31 of the year will
be carried out by an Independent Auditor, acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will be submitted to the Bank no
later than line 3n) in the year following that for which the project accounts are audited. The Auditor's TOR will
include the issuance of a management letter on internal controls six months after effectiveness.



Page 39
Tahle A: Projeet Perfnrmoanre Indrstnn
Responsable
Project components and activities    institutions   Unit    VI      Y2      Y3      Y4     Total
I Municipal Subprorects
- Municipalities with at least one                      No.
subproject (total)                    Municipalities  (cum)     320    335     344     344      344
-Municipalities with > 30% ILS with at                  No.
least one subproject                  Municipalities  (cum)     100     105     Ill     Ill     HIl
-Subprojects Implemented              Municipalities    No.    8,500   8,500   9,000   9,000   35,000
- Subprojects in SOEs over potentially                  %
eligible subprojects,                 Municipalities  (cum)    60%     75%     90%     100%    100%
- RehabkIitatinn uhTnrniqprtc with rcn  t tI             %
totals                                Municipalities  (cutm)    5%     7.5%    10%    12.5%    12.5%
-Inhabitants in targeted municipalities with
access to:
*   Electricity                                      %     90%     91%     91%     91%      91%
*   Water                                          (cum)   75%     77%     78%     79%      79%
*   Drainage                      Municipalities           49%     50%      52%    53%      53%
%
- Percentage of inter-municipal subprojects Municipalities  (cum)  2%   2%      3%      3%      3%
2= Mbinicinal flevelnnment anTd iuinnto
Decentralization
- States with agreements to pool resources
and co-finance municipal institutional  Participating
development prograrns                 States            No       1       2       3       4       4
Participating
- Training courses offered to         States            No.
community associations                                         4       8       12      16      40
* municipal authorities (COPLADEMUN
and others)                                                     12      12      12      14       50
* States with civil service programs                    No.      2       2       3       4       4
* E-government functioning in states'
municipalities                                          No.      2       3       4       4       4
No.
Municipalities with Social Action Plans                (cum)    100     180     300     344     344
No.
-Municipalities with > 30% ILS                  (cum)    55      80      100     III      Ill
3. Proiect Support. Supervision. Monitoring
and Evaluation
- States with agreements to pool to
resources to technically assist the subproject Participating
cvrcle                                ____              No.      1       2       J       A       A
No. of
- Supervision of overall project      STUs             visits   24      24      24      24       96
No. of
NPCU             visits    12      12      12      12      48
- Workshops to discuss experiences in the
implementation of the project         NPCU              No       2       2       2       2       8



Page 40
Annex 4
Mexico
Municipal Development in Rural Areas
Estimated Project Costs
Prolect Component                                   Local       Foreign          Total
---USS million
A. Municipal Subprojects                            373.0          93.2          466.2
B. Municipal Development and Support to
Decentraluzation
1. Strengthening of organization capacities       16.3            5 9          22.2
2. Development of the institutional framework     25.3           12.4          37.7
C. Project support, supervision, monitoring and      55.5                         55 5
evaluation
Total Baseline Cost                                 470.1          111.5         581.6
Physical Contingencies                            41.0            5.2          46.2
Price Contineencies                                n 9            4.7           5.6
Total Prolect Cost                                  512.0          121.4         633.4



Page 41
Annex 5
Mexico
Municinal Develonment in Ruiral Areas-
Economic Analysis
S.:,f     i        ra4r.A ant .rnA.n. th e  ne w tha,e- t .t -A e dedAb y . -  -.-;:Aes overe lkre ! o -,   f u.he
project It is thus not possible to know a priori how available resources will be allocated, and therefore a precise ar
ante estimation of their cost-effectiveness, rate of return and fiscal impact is not possible. However, subprojects to
be financed under the proposed project would, in general, be similar to those financed under the previous
comnmunity-based municipal development project, DRD 11. Based on accumulated experience from the DRD 11, the
foilowing aspccts vf pruject invesitenis wenr assesscu. (i) cost-eitectiveness and sustainabiiity of infiruciure and
social subprojects; (ii) the fiscal impact of the DRD 111; and (iii) the aggregate impact of the DRD) Ill.
Cost Effectiveness and Sustainabillty of Social and Productive Infrastructure Subprojects
Many elements of the proposed project help to demonstrate that the basic social and productive infrastructure
investrnents implemented are indeed the least-cost, best alternative. Given the annual budget envelope available to
each municipality, scarce resources are allocated to their highest end use via the demand-driven, participatory
mechanisms inherent in the project design. COPLADEMUNs engage the wide participation of communities which
have, through broad consultation, determined their specific investment demands. Field audits, drawn from a random
sample of subprojects implemented under DRD 11 confirmed that (i) overall subproject quality was satisfactory and
(ii) the CDD approach pursued was relatively more efficient that the previous "top-down" approach to basic service
delivery. Procurement procedures for subproject implementation - detailed in the project Operational Manual -
require municipalities to solicit {denendina on tont subhnrniect cost) frnm three tn five nrnSnerhve bide frm which
the least-Cost is chosen. Additionally, the cost of subprojects implemented under DRD 11 were, in general, some 30
pecment below the costs for similar works implemented under more taditional approaches.
A cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted for "with" and "without" project scenarios. Under the "with" scenario,
subprojects are implemented following revised procedures designed to increase sustainabilitv and other associated
target parametm  (e.g., reduced cost, improved quality). The "without" scenario minors current government
pmctices for subproject implementation. These current practices indicate weaknesses in municipal institutional
capacity and institutional memory to ensure adequate subproject technical quality, limited coordination between
Federal, State and Municipal goveniment, and reduced expected life span of investments due to weak O&M and
pr.ventive main.tn*ance.  The aalysis W.iJed    . sx..L.:    .. .. In ..      py (ii)    iiuii (iii)
£ *WmJaJaI ILnua~ tiL ~A alUL1JIJIUJUU  ty]JQ.. !%i WflLCI DUj4JI7,it SM1,2L)-kil
education facilities; (iv) small-scale electrification; (v) health posts; and (vi) rural road spot improvements. P;ces
reflect market values during the first quarter of 2002. Together, these six subproject types are representative of about
90% of the expected demand pattern under Component One of the proposed project. Market prices were used to
reflect opportunity costs with small corrections made to these prices for ruwal unskilled labor (conversion factor of
0.7) and equipment, goods and materials (conversion factor of 0.9). The social discount rate was estimated at 12%.
The time horizon for the evaluation was 20 years, the average economic life of most of the subprojects.
Costs were estimated considering three situations: (i) works contracted with local construction firms, representing
the most common practice under the MSIF (without project scenario); (ii) construction under municipal
awumnisirmiun; anrd (ii) uiroughi a combincd municipai and users community management adopting improved cost-
sharing mechanisms The last two altematives would be promoted (with project scenario) to reduce costs, promote
local empowerment and improve sustainability of services Investment costs included project preparation and
supervision, civil works, purchase of goods and equipment, and physical contingencies.



Page 42
Overall Results
All models yielded a positive net present value (NPV) when compared to the without project scenano Results were
extrapolated, assuming a distribution of demand similar to that under DRD 11 and a uniform pattem of subproject
implementation over the project period.
1. Rural Road Rehabilitation    25          120 0       26,641
2   Electricity                 23          110 4        16,336
3   Education Facilities        16          76.8         8,550
4. Water Supply                 16          76 8         9,548
J. .3U   KuIlo                  IV          48 0         7,;06
6. Health Facilities             3           14 4        1,603
SUB-TOTAL                 1     93          446.4       6 C
Others (including 17,780 lainnes)  7        33.6         4,685
TOTAL                     j     100         480.0    j  74,469   j
The economic NPV of cost savings to be obtained from the aggregation of subprojects to be financed by the project
(costing USS480 million) was estimated at USS74.5 million, which is 30% greater than the US$57 million mvested
in improved subproject practices, municipal institutional development and support to decentralization under
Component Two of the project. From the total NPV of cost savings, US$54 7 million (74%) would be from cost
reductions achieved from subprojects financed under the project (when compared to "without" project scenario)
The remaining US$19.7 million reflects cost savings from the incremental subproject investments made possible
fir-m, t,h e-.ie-r cost r.ductions.
These results alone yield satisfactory direct economic returns to justify the proposed project In addition, if benefits
were considered from additional subprojects fmnanced through trained municipalities after project implementation is
completed, the project NPV could reach about US$164 million Traditional sensitivity analysis and the use of
SwitchinQ vahle; ;how that these results arm ;tahle to relbtivelv large senarate or comhined rhanoec in both henefitc
and costs.
Financial Analysis
Sustainability of basic services to be provided with fiscal resources to poor communities is one of the project's main
objectives. it depends on the economic results obtained but also on the financiai viabiiity and distribution of
resulting benefits. If project transfers are needed to make its operation financially viable and sustainable, it is
important to estimate the magnitude and timing of the mncentives to ensure self sufficiency and an adequate O&M.
Under the new activities and procedures to be enforced, sustainability would be improved through users'
involvement and local capacity building and empowerment, which would result in efficiency gams from better
management, improved collection of service tafiffs or fees when possible, and enhanced decentralization and local
participatory involvement of the benefited communities
The large proportion of economic, non-monetary benefits based on consumer surplus accruing from the social
services involved are difficult to capture by the service operator. Before approval of proposals, preliminary financial
analysis - on a case by case basis - from the point of view of the operators who should assume the O&M activities
should be undertaken. Given that financial results rarely capitalize social benefits which are difficult to quantify but
could be substantial, incentives are justified to maintain those benefits stemming from improved health and/or
uicome-earning skills of the beneficiary population with positive implications to their living conditions. However,
attttudes shnild he changed and the forraln7ntion and active nnrticinntion of iqperq' oroant7tiinnc and/nr nther
stakeholder groups will be encouraged with the support of the project to improve O&M efficiency and on
sustainability of services. Other indirect benefits and externalities such as social cohesion facilitating for instance,
access to credit also contribute to poverty alleviation and justify some targeted mcentives.



Page 43
In the case of electrification subprojects, for example, financial sustainability through user fees is covered fairly well
by the electncity company and in the case of water supply, it can easily be done with user committees. There are
however, cases which have by nature high levels of uncertainty in their O&M cost recuperation possibilities, as is
the case of sanitation, rural road maintenance. health posts and education facilities. Considerin2 that an onerator of
these services do not capture most of the expected social benefits attached to its provision, innovative ways to
induce users participation should be developed to enhance sustainability. They could introduce better system
management efficiency and other benefits because are the beneficiaries and most interested parties m the correct
functionmg of the service provided. Other benefits are captured by diverse social groups (public goods), so adequate
fiscal incentives should compenisae and support the provision of tiose desirabte services contribuiing to sociai
welfire and poverty alleviation objectives in marginal rural municipalities.
Given the increasing needs for improving social safety nets in Mexico and the endemic fiscal constraints, O&M and
cost recovery prospects of the proposed investments through adequate fees or tariffs - when possible - should be
giveU eauus1 weight in tLic cl;gibility criteria fAor selection of subproJccw. TLe .11V…ia L … …iV… itiI  of
subprojects should take into account commitment to promoting a significant change in the basic services-for-free
paradigm prevailing in rural public institutions and conimunities. The proposed project emphasizes cost-effective
and sound technical solutions, cost recovery, the development of sustainable O&M systems, the partcipation of
local communities in decision-making, implementation and sustainable use of the service supplied
Fiscal Impact
All Bank-financed programs in Mexico operate within existing Federal budget allocations, in accordance with the
tight fiscal policy being undertaken by the Federal government. Nonetheless, the proposed project would result in
fiscal savings, by continuing and improving upon the CDD approach followed under DRD 11. Under already
established annual municipal budget envelopes, the project - through evidence already in support of significant cost
savings associated with the demand-driven approach - increases the reach for a given level of resources, when
compared to traditional approaches of basic infrastructure delivery. The 30 percent cost savings already noted under
DRD 11 would translate into potentially reaching up to 30 percent more beneficiaries than would be possible under
other approaches. Fur-thei-rmore, since 0 & M are covered by the communities tirough use[ fees once tie subproject
execution is completed, the burden of these recurrent costs is lifted from both State and Municipal governments.
Direct revenue generation, as a consequence of investments in basic social and productive infiastructure, is expected
to be negligible, yet indirect impact, through purchases of electrical appliances and less burden on public health
systems through improved access to safe water supply and sanitation services, allow scarce budgetary resources to
be gradually re-diected to other end uses
Conclusions
The project would help to improve the efficiency of Federal programs targeting decentralization and poverty
alleviation nnd to encourage lncanl dtnkholders to tean active role in plnning and implemenrnt  actions to
improve their living conditions Its specific goal is to encourage local institutions, in particular municipalities and
village committees, to embrace collective decision making to help communities carry out their own development
plans; and to make it easier for villagers to access basic services like water supply, sanitation, electricity, health and
education. The new procedures for the allocation of fiscal funds would result m more effective and sustainable
investments and in enhanced sociai capital at the locai ievei which could initiate a development process with higher
levels of efficiency and equity. The results of the economic, financial and fiscal analysis for the representative
scheme models confirm that they are socially desirable and that there are altemative ways to improve significantly
the programs impact by increasing comrmunity involvement and by training the three levels of governnent on the
new development approach.



Page 44
Annex 6
Mexico
Municipal Development in Rural Areas
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(in million USS)
___________________  ____   2002   2003    2004   2005    2006    Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs          58.0  153.7   177.4  124.6    63.5    577.2
Recurrent Costs            S.S   14.6    17.6   12 3     6.2     56.2
Total                  63.5   168.3  195.0  136.9     69.7    633.4
FLnancine Sources
[BRD                      40.1  106.3  123.1    86.5    44.0    400.0
Government of Mexico      18 3   48.5    56.3   39.5    20.1    182.7
Beneficiaries              5 !   !3 5    t5.6  !TA0      A.      50.7
Total               j  63.5   168.3  195.0  136.9     69.7    633.4 J



Page 45
A   -   -,
tiUiex /
Mexico
Municipal Development in Rural Areas
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procuement
Al:lp                A--               ...e:.i  I L-don3- n   z c o  .     .  w i  A-  --.e udlnso.prA.e:o ws
MNll "rcu 8mnL WI&U MUlI li UN. uZuoh~ WYYlUE LIM. ZJQIU a 5Q4UE1LZl0 MEt j1ILAUEUILULEL MirWU C1UU
works, and using standard contrct documents acceptable to the Bank (Guidelines, Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999 and Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999) and the provisions
stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
ProcurementResPonsibilities and Capsacity
Pmcurement resnonsibilities under the Prniect will he exercised as followv
* Selection of all the consultants and administration of related contracts to provide technical
assistance for institutional development, capacity building and specific studies related to project
implementation (e.g. evaluation studies) at the federal, state, and municipal level will be carried
out by CEDEMLruN, a fdcerai agency designated as the Nationai Project Coordinating Unit
(NPCU). In addition, the NPCU will submit an annual procurement plan (including procurement
for subprojects) for Bank review each calendar year.
*   Small works for the Subprojects will be procured by the Municipal Planning and Development
Councils (COPLADEMUN) presently operating in each participating municipality.
*   While not directly responsible for procurement actions, already established State Technical Units
(STUs) will be responsible for supervising, monitoring, and reporting on the overall quality of
procurement by the municipalities. As part of these responsibilities, STUs will maintain complete
subprojects files including supporting documentation for all expenditures incurred in subprojects
plementsfion. !n nAlditon, tshe STIs -iY11 h .Crsponsible -I ...i.ng. w.-Lh L  XrnPC Ito
coordinate implementation of the procurement capacity building plan discussed below.
*   NAFrN, the Project's financial agent, will provide technical assistance to all executing entities on
a wide range of project execution and administration matters, collect, quality control, and submit
all documentation required by the Bank and open and manage the special account.
The Project's overall procurement risk was assessed as "HIGW'. Organizational models and levels of
capacity in the participating states vary. However, controls are in place in each state which can be regarded
as risk mitigating factors for the purposes of the Project. These controls include:
*   Good MISs (ISO 9000 certified in the case of Puebla) which would allow adequate monitoring
and evaluation of the project activities.
*   Planning units with good technical capacity (COPLADE) responsible for reviewing subprojects
proposals in detail and soliciting inputs from specialized entities on technical matters, as
*   Technical reviews on 100 per cent of the subprojects by ORFIS in Puebla, Zacatecas and Veracruz
and by the Contralorla Interna of the municipalities in Guanajuato (reporting to the Contadurla
Mayor, an organ of the legislative power). Technical reviews are carried out on the basis of these
institutions' established procedures by their multi-disciplinary staff (legal, financial, engineering,
etc.)
•   Strong partner units and institutions providing additional supervision, oversight and/or technical
assistance (e.g., in Puebla, the unit responsible for institutional development in the municipalities
known as DIM; in Guanajuato and Zacatecas the Contralorla Municipal and the Contralorla
Social, in Zacatecas the Secretarta de Fananas, Presupuestos y Egresos).



Page 46
nhe works to be financed under the project generally require only limited or no design and simple supervision
arrangements and reviews of the subprojects financed under the previous Bank operations suggest that, in the
majority of the cases, the works' design and construction are sound and they are adequately maintained. Since
1998, under DRD 11, municipalities have been implementing similar small-scale investmnents and the ICR for
this Project concluded that procurement in the reformnulated phase of the Project (i.e. after responsibilities and
budget resources were transferred by the Federal Government to the Municipalities) was satisfactory The
present Project includes 28 municipalities not previously covered under the DRD 11 Project. Finally, only
completed subprojects for which an official Act of Reception (Acta de entrega y recepcs6n) has been issued
would be eligible for financing under the loan, adding, in practice, an additional safeauard for the Bank and the
Mexican Governuent.
CEDEMUN is an institution in transiton which, at the present time, does not have sufficient capacity to award
and administer the consultant contracts anticipated under the Project in accordance with Bank policies and
p. -_ed -.,
Action Plan to Mitieate Procurement Risk
STUs should review supportinr  documentation for one hlindred percent of the subprojects ard carr O ut
physical inspections of the works ensunng a coverage of at least 10 percent of municipalities per year Both the
municipalities and the subprojects in each municipality will be randomly selected. However, the STUs will also
be responsible for monitoring subprojects identified as risky, using data from the MIS, and following up with
field visits, as appropriate. STUs will report semi-annually to CEDEMUIN on the results of such procurement
supervision.
The Bank should carry out procurement post reviews in each STU semi-annually In conjunction with such
reviews, the Bank will carry out physical mspections of randomly selected subprojects, covering a minimum of
10 percent of participating municipalities per year. Such supervisions may be carried out by a Procurement
Specialist, Procurement Accredited Staff, and/or independent procurement auditors approved by the Regional
Procurement Advisor. Bank physical inspections would serve a twofold purpose It would allow to monitor
STUs' procurement supervision of subprojects, and increase overall coverage of subprojects. The decision to
visit new subprojects or subprojects already inspected by the STUs would be made on a case-by-case basis
dependung on the rniults of dnC,-r,ent reews andol  .n .evedA 4o.m #. LAi M r n.m   .se.a .....ble to
the mission, and relevant to Bank fiduciary supervision. A similar approach would be followed with respect to
ex-novo or repeated physical inspections.
The following reconunended actions were agreed upon and will be itemized in the project operational manual:
*   CEDEMUN should establish a state-of-the-art MIS capable to generate detailed information on all
subprojects. The MIS should be fully integrated and able to interface with the participating states' MIS.
*   The Project Operational Manual should include a Procurement Chapter describinog as a minimumn roles
and responsibilities with respect to procurement at the Federal, State, and Municipal levels, organization
and content of procurement files and a file control system, and thresholds for use of procurement methods
and for Bank prior review.
*   CEDEMUN should establish a procurement sub-unit within the NPCU headed by an Individual with
substantial experience on Bank-financed consulting services and also staffed with ajunior professional. In
addition to ensuring that consultants are selected in accordance with the Loan Agreement, the procurement
sub-unit should be responsible for monitonng the overall quality of procurement in the states, and make
appropriate recommendations to CEDEMUN for corrective actions to be agreed with the states and
%.U3L.i 1       arniSJeCtLJ UUIULdiL I14*i
*   CEDEMUN should agree with each participating state on a plan whereby adequate resources are allocated
and an appropriate stategic approach is defined to ensure that municipalities' administrative and technical
capacities to carry out procurement of goods and works are strengthened.



Page 47
•   The STUs established in each participating state should be staffed with at least one professional
knowledgeable of works procurement.
•   Each calendar year, the states should submit a procurement plan to CEDEMUN's procurement sub-unit
which, in turn, will forward a copy of such plan to the Bank and use it for monitoring purposes
Procurement Procedures
Consultant Services
The Project would finance technical assistance, studies, and capacity building for institutional, policy and regulatory
refonns to support municipal institutional development.
Consulting firms would be selected following a Quality and Cost Based Selection process, in accordance with
Section If of the Consultant Guidelines. Services of a standard or routine nature, estimated to cost less than
USS200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under a Least-Cost Selection process, in accordance with
pans. 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
In addition to the procurement consultant for CEDEMUN, individual consultants would be contracted up to
aggregate amount of US$5 million for assignments that meet the requirements of Paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant
Guidelines and in accordance with the provisions of paagraphs 5.1 through 5.3 thereby.
Subprojects
The bulk of the Project would finance small, demand-driven infrastructure subprojects in rural municipalities
Anticipated works include improvement of rural road, water supply and sanitation, mral electrification, construction
of schools, health centers and community development facilities. The maximum amount of a subproject would be
USS50,000, with the exception of water and drainage subprojects whose maximum amount would be US$100,000.
However, it is anticipated that most subprojects would be for smaller amounts. The latter subprojects would include
rehabilitation and/or expansion of existing purification and distribution systems, drilling of new wells, rehabilitation
of drauiage systems, and installation of new pumps Sanitation works may include repair or installation of new
collectors, treatment plants, septic tanks, and construction of latrines. It is estimated that approximately 35,000
subprojects will be financed in approximately 350 municipalities. These contracts would be procured by the
COPLADEMUJNs under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from a
mn,.rn   nf *hr,lk   nualifiedA unmrpt. rnntrtnrv in pennncs tn a un4ttn ;nv tatinn  Ven., smne a  inhnr;n,no
works may also be carried out with community-donated labor under the supervision of the appropriate municipal
authonty, in which case the subproject would finance only the cost of construction materials.
The Procurement Chapter of the Operational Manual should clearly describe the procurement procedures to be
utilized by the subprojects as weli as the responsibilities, supervisory arrangements, documentation required, and
other controls applicable to the subprojects, as discussed above.
Goods
Computer hardware and software for use by project municipalities to support their institutional development would
be procured by CEDEMUN under National Competitive Bidding procedures. Contracts for the procurement of
these goods would be awarded in accordance with the provisions of paras 3 3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
Goods (other than computer hardware and software), estimated to cost USS100,000 equivalent or less per contract,
would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Shopping procedures in accordance with
provisions of paras. 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines



Page 48
Training
Expenses to be financed under the "Training" category will include all logistics required to organize and implement
workshops and other training initiatives such as travel and subsistence of participants, renting of facilities,
production of materials, small fees for facilitators, etc. It will not include consultant services. Annual Training
Plans will be submitted by CEDEMUN to the Bank specifying activities and venues, numbers and types of
participants, and a detailed breakdown of required resources. Indicators would be incorporated into the Project MIS
to monitor and evaluate progress related to annual training plans. Based on annual implementation reviews of such
plans, corrective action would be tncorporated into subsequent yearly plans.
Oneratina Costs
Operating costs would include expenditures incurred for recurrent incremental costs associated with the
implementation of the project, such as: (i) operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel and spare parts; (ii)
equipment and computer maintenance; (iii) office supplies; (iv) rent for office facilities; (v) utilities; and (vi) travel
a u  pe   _llm   cosVts_ vAL Ar tccl vZLC _1  A_A_V  _< A.  -- --  -- A _A 
control activities.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$ million, loan proceeds in parenthesis)
Expenditure Category                                                       Total Cost
NCB       Small     Other3    N.B.F      (including
Works                        contingencies)
1. Subprojects                             518.0                           518 0
(336.7)                          (336.7)
2. Goods
Municipalities                7.2                                        7.2
(4.7)                                      (4 7)
CEDEMUN                       0.8                                        0.8
(0.5)                                      (0.5)
2. Consulting Services and
Technical Assistance
Firms                                             20.0                  20.0
(16.6)                (16.6)
tndivhIuasI10                                                        5 sn
(4.1)                 (4.1)
3. Training                                           26.9                  26.9
(22.3)                (22.3)
4. Incremental recurrent costs                        55.5                  55.5
(.I. 11.)            (1.i  I)
Sub-Total                      8.0      518.0      1074                  6334
(5.2)    (336.7)    (54 1)                (396 0)
Up-front Fee:                                             (4.0)
Total    8.0       518.0      107.4                633.4
(5.2)    (336.7)    (54.1)                (400.0)
'Totals include taxes and coningencies
3See Table Al for details
4N B F - Not Bak-fin=ced
'Muntcipai subprojects



Page 49
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(USS million equivalent)
lrn.imItsnt qsruIen  I (ICRC     nnRQ     SFB     LCS       CQl     Athir  NRB V    Tots! Cost'
Expenditure Category
A. Firms                 160       -        -       4.0       -        -                20.0
(13.3)                    (3.3)                               (16.6)
B. Individuab                                                 -      5.0      -         5.0
_____________________                                   (4.1)              (4.1)
Total   20 0      -        -       -         -       5.0      -        25.0
___ ___ ___ __ __   (16.6)                             (4.1)             (20.7)
NINE D B: nhrBuuIs air rrucurmucnt avacious uud Fr;ur KeveUW
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (ISS thousands)            Method         j
1. Works for subprojects         < 350             Price Comparison     First per state per calendar
year
2. Goods
a. Subprojects             <100                 Shopping                  None
b. CEDEMUN                 >100                  NCB                       All
3. Services
Firms                       > 100               QCBS/LCS                     All
<100                QCBSILCS                    None
Individuals                  >50           Chapter V of Consultant           All
Guidelines
<50            Chapter V of Consultant         None
I_____ _____ _____ _____   |_________   G uidelines  _
USYEuiu rru%;urcmeni Rik An eSuIIt
Subprojects: HIGH
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Every 6 months.



Page 50
Disbursement
Financial Management, Auditing and Disbursement Arrangements
The financial management system of CEDEMUN and the Participating States were reviewed by a Bank Financial
Management Specialist during project preparation for compliance with OP/BP 10.02. Based on this review, the
project was certified as category "B", indicating that the Project satisfies the Bank's financial management
requirements but some of the existing financial management reports need to be adjusted. Disbursements for all
expenditures would be on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs), except for training, incremental operating
costs, goods and works exceeding USS100,000 equivalent; contracts with consulting fims above US$100,000
equivalent; and individuals about US$50,000 equivalent. The information required for the compilation of SOEs
would be maintained by the project Technical Unit in the MIS. All SOEs would be transmitted from the NPCU to
the World Bank in Washington The project Operational Manual would be updated to include details regarding
internal controls, accounting, audits, flow of funds, disbursements, Special Account and Financial Management
Rennrtt
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of four years, with a Closing Date of December 3 1, 2006.
The allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement category is shown m Table C.
Staffing. In general. CEDEMUN staff dedicated to the project's financial management is adequate, but requires
spec.fic triining to ca&.; out Anew duiesrlted to USe       -C^i..eto  Aof   _-- proj Beaseo .i, 1V%C?n,A1 v.4
ajJ.III.  L011115 1.7 lJt  *~flLPII1J  1.4L1~J  1. ulL. I1 ..11F 1.11 1.fLJA  Ml  JUl~ F~j7LJALZ' C W  -.7  ULI*,  LL .IY J
would hire a financial coordinator and prepare a taining program -first short-term and then permanent, so that said
coordinator becomes familiar with the proceedings related to the fiduciary responsibility under the project. The
project counterparts in the STUs must designate and train an accountant responsible for the state-level activities of
the project
Funds Flow. The Bank's project does not provide additionality at the State or Municipal level Project activities
will be financed ex ante through Ramo 33, except under Subcomponent 2.2, which is financed through the regular
budget of CEDEMUN     The Law of Fiscal Coordination (Ley de Cordmnac,dn Fiscal) clearly indicates the
mechanics of the operation of Ramo 33. Once the subprojects have been executed, the STUs and CEDEMUN will
nrena.refhe necesc:n 4ncmmenrntinn and uiihmit it tn NAP IN the nmiert'c finanrinl nlent fnr the nrennrninn of the
Statement of Expenditure (SOE) m order to refund the expenses
Accounting Polickes and Procedures. The current arrangements are adequate for regular transactions. However,
because the project involves new responsibilities, adjustments will be made in each STU, as well as in the
CEDEMU`N. In this way, the requirements for policies and proceedings acceptable to the Bank can be covered and
be compatible with the internatonal policies and proceedings, as well as to ensure an adequate accounting system, to
carry out the register of transactions, separation of accounts, disbursement categones, activities, sources, provide
reports and implement controls for the penodic evaluation of the project
Internal ControL The STUs have diverse areas responsible for internal control Due to restructuring of CEDEMUN,
the internal control sub-unit has not yet been established The municipalities are diverse, ranging from those that
have strong structures to those that lack control personnel. The same happens with existing systems of internal
control, such as authorizations, mformation, payments, vouchers, etc In answer to this problem, in past years the
STUs have implemented measures to eliminate their deficiencies in personnel traing, equipment and manuals,
among other internal control matters. Actions to enhance the current system will be implemented within six months
of loan effectiveness (Financial, Accounting and Monitonng Indicators).
SpecialAccount. In order to facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a special account in US
Dollars with Banco de Mexico, NAFIN, or a commercial bank, with an authorized allocation based on projected
disbursements for four months, so as to initiate disbursements under the traditional disbursement methodology.



rage Di
Financial Manngement Rennrt- (FMR)
Because the financial infornation has to comply with the minimum requirements of the Bank and the project's
management needs, financial monitoring reports or FMRP will be prepared semiannually. CEDEMUN will be
responsible for the preparation of the consolidated FMRs. The STUs would guarantee the prompt delivery of the
financial information of their iransactions so that the consolidated FMR can be sent by CEDEMUlN to the Bank
within the fis 10 days of each corresponding 6 month period  The FMRs would consist of the following: (i)
Statement of Sources and Uses of Resources, (ih) Use of Resources, by activity, (iii) Statement of the Special
Account, prepared by NAFIN, (iv) Physical-Financial Statement for the project, and (v) Procurement by type and
expense category Finally CEDEMUN, through NAFIN, will prepare a consolidated FMR, satisfactory to the Bank.
CEDEMhLUN will prepare the section on the project's fimancial management of the project operational manual in
which it will clearly establish the agreements relative to the reporting and monitonng such as standard format,
general guides and parameters.
The STUs currently make sure that the municipalities issue complete, reliable, verifiable financial information
according to the transactions and do so promptly (monthly). However, this information answers to the legislation
and needs of each State, therefore the current systems need to be adjusted to generate the corresponding information
for the project and in such a way that the CEDEMUN can prepare not only FMR's but also SOEs It is advisable that
these adjustmnents be made to the existing systems, but said information can be prepared through other media such as
spread sheets. However, these arrangements must be acceptable to the Bank These adjustments must be camed out
nrnr so npprmt off.rrvt;Pness
Auditing Arrangements. The STUs are audited by external entities, ranging from auditors from the legislative
power to private offices. The results vary: i) in the case of Zacatecas the Auditoria Superior, a dependant of the
legislative, is currently carrying out audits corresponding to previous years, that go from 1999 to 2001 in some
Municipalities; ii) the Contadurla Mavor of the lezislative- in GuanaiuatoL is going through a trnsition nm_es,
aiming to transform into an Organo de Fiscalizacidn Superior. As such, it is making adjustments to its structure,
processes and personnel; iii) the Organo de Fiscaiizacuin Superior in Veracruz does not have full capacity to audit
the municipalities, including the personnel, even when it is supported by private offices. Besides, some activities and
commitments from the extinct Conladurla Mayor are still betng carried out; iv) the Organo de Fiscahzacidn
Supertor in rUeUba Carries out exteral1 audits suppotcd mainly oy external auditors, ma v) LLtuMtUN nas been
audited extemally by the SECODAM; however, CEDEMUN as an autonomous institute will be inspected by a
external Audit Firm.
According to arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Mexico, the special account will be audited in conjunction
wfl. uh. arunual ftancia! audi: of the projec:t 0 ILJor Wue period January I. to  CeeImUberL 31. 1 h 11 CadULL Will UC
performed by an Independent Auditor. Both the terms of reference for the Audit, and the Auditbr shall be
acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 in the year following the
year for which the project accounts are audited. The Auditor's TOR will include the issuance of a management letter
on internal controls.



Page 52
Takw1 C: A'loCan OXi     D-.-A. k.. D..:t.at r
Expenditure Category                Total Project   Financing  Allocation of Loan
Cost in USS    Percentage   Proceeds in USS
million                      million
I. Subprojects                                       492.3          65%           320.0
2. Consultants' services
(a) STUs                                           18.9           83%            15 7
(b) CEDEMUN                                         4.8           83%            4.0
3. Training
(a) STUs                                           19.5           83%            16.2
(h) CFflFMlTN                                       6 0           83%            5.0
4. Incremental Recurrent Costs
(a) STUs                                            50.5          20%             10.1
(b) CEDEMUN                                         2.5           20%             0.5
5. Goods
(a) Municipal Institutional Development             6 9           65%            4.5
(b) CEDEMUN                                         0.8           65%            0.5
6. Front-end Fee                                                      -             4.0
7 Unallocated                                         31.2            -             195
Total     633.4                         400.0



Page 53
Annex 8
Mexico
Municipal Development in Rural Areas
D A      I+ iVD  LCIAA A   ..tAUIU
JI roJct IL roccssingk JIIWU
Project Schedule                                           Planed               Aqual
(At final PCD stage)
Time tQPen tn nprsnap lhs niprt Im^ontn a h1l
...-r--a'   --rsr  '-'J-/ 
First Bank mission (identification/preparation)            0612000              0612000
Appraisal mission departure                                04/2002              04o002
Negotiations                                               05n2002              05/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                               1202002
Prepared by: SHCP/CEDEMUN
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Juiio Cordoba               Team Leader, LCSEK
Edward Bresnyan             LCSER
Jorge Franco                LCSER
Edmundo Ramirez             LCSER
Teresa Roncal               LCSES
Luis Coirolo                LCSER
Enzo De Laurenti's          LCSES
Ricardo Hemrndez-Murillo    LCSEN
Victor Ordofiez             LOCAA
Peer Reviewer:
Andrea Silverman            LCSFP



Page 54
Annex 9
Mexico
Municipal Development in Rural Areas
Duocuments in the Projeci File*
1 ) Project Implementation Plan
2) Preparationl/Appraisal Aide Memoire
3) Draft Project Operational Manual
a) Technical Guidelines for Standard Subproject Designs
b) Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan
4) Bank Staff Assessments
a) Social Assessment
b) Environmental Assessment
c) Procurement Capacity Assessment
d) Financial Management Assessment
5) Project Economic and Financial Analysis
6) Project Implementation Arrangements
7) State Technical Units (STUs)
o) rruject ionitoriuig Aumiigemenis
9) Overview of Project Database
10) Monitoring Activities
11) Project Reporting
12) Background Studies
a) El Ramo 33 y la Infraestructura Social Municipal en el Estado de Guanajuato Aspectos Fundamentales de
su Operaci6n, Participaci6n Social, Normatividad Tdcnica y Ambiental
b) Estudio municipal en matena de partucipacidn social, medio arnbiente y aspectos tecnicos de diseflo y
ejecuci6n - Puebla.
c) Estudio municinal en materia de narticipanrin scial meIindo amhente yv nnertnc tirnirn de disefn u
ejecuci6n - Veracruz
d) Estudio municipal en matena de participaci6n social, medio ambiente y aspectos tecnicos de disefto y
ejecucz6n - Zacatecas
including electronic files.



Page 55
Annex 10
Mexico
Municipal Development iin Rural Areas
Statement of Loans and Credits
As of March 14,2002
Onginl Anoxmt m USS Mlihoil   Dtferctw* bri expected       Lat PSFR
and ace dubunents a/    SupwenM RiS bl
Projet ID     Fls. Yer        Borrower                        DERD                               [DA   Caucl     Undisb    Ong      FrmnRled    DevjObj g   fl L.P
Ncmtbe of Clof d Projoa 157
&:lye Proeo
KK-PE-7641            1993   BANOBRAS          MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                              200 0  0 0     63 0      55 8    118S          95 8    S         S
MXf-PE-7710           1994   BANOBRAS          N BORDERIENVIRONM                                 3680   00      3134      236     3370          623     5         S
hOK-PE-7701           1994   NAFIN             ON-FARM &M NOR IRI                                2000   00)      300      119      419          119     S         S
lCX-PE-34490          1995   NAFIN             TECHNICAL EDI'UCTRAJNINO                          2650   00      697       513     1209          909     S         U
MCK-PE.7619           1996   NAFN              BASICIHEALTHII                                    3100   011      00       296      296          296    t1S        HS
MX<-PE-7713           1996   NAFIN             WATER RESOURCES MANA                              1865   00       00      1204     1012          419     S         S
MXK-PE-7700           1997   NARN              CONeAUNTFYFORESTRY                                 150   01)      00        61       51           00     S          5
hDt-PE-44531          1998   WAFRN             KNOWLEDGE&'NNOV                                   3000   01)      00      1954      670           00     5          5
NCI9-PE-TT20          199S   BAOBSRAS          HEALTHfSYSIfn(REFORM -SAL                         7000   00       00      1500     1500           00     S         S
MXK-PE-55061          1998   BAINOBRAS         HEALTHSYSTEMRSFORM TA                              250   00       00        13       13           00     S         KS
MX-PE-49895           1998   BANOBAS           IfGIER ED FINANCING                               1502   00       00      1443      72 1          00     S         S
hSa-PE-7711           1998   NAFN              RURAL DEV NARPJ AREA                               470   0 0      00       30 2     225           00     S         S
MX-PE-48505           1999   NAFIN             AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                              4445   00)      00      1556      525         -2Y I    S         S
MX-PE-7610            1999   BANOBRAS          FOVIRESTRUCTlURING                                5051   00       00      3120     3087           00     5         S
MXC-PE-66938          2000   NKFN              CGiENDER (LIL)                                      31   00      0g0        1        14           00 o  u          u
MX.-PE-57530          2000   NAFIN             RURAL DEV MNta AR 1                                55 0  00        00      42 7      5 4          00     S          S
M]X-PE64QI7           2001   BANOBRAS          DISASTER MANAGEMENT                               404 1  00        00     3957      450           00     S          S
CX-PE-65779           2001   BANOBRAS          FEDERALKIGHWAYMAIWrENANCE PROJ                    2180   00       00      2069     -11 I          00     S         S
XC(-PE-70479          2001   BAJOBRAS          EDODEMEXICOSAL                                    5051   00       00      2000    -3046           00     5         5
MC-PE-71323           2001   NAFIN             BANKRESTRUCflJR1NGFACILIfl 11                     5051   00       00      3500      -517          00     S         S
MXC-PE-66321          2001   NAIFEN            BASICHEALTHCCAREPROJ al                           3500   0(0       00     3500       00           00     S          S
MC-PE-60577           2002   NAJFIN            SOUTHEAST REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                      50   00        00       50       00           00     S          S
Taint                                                                                           5,7914   00     476 1   2,1408   1,1130        3043
Active                                   Close             C1ased Pi b
Tni Dubmned (IREI ad IDA)                 2,474 6                                 24,541 7     27,016-3
ofwttach bas been rqaid             844                                   18,435 3     1,519 7
Tota] now beld by M3RD aid IDA.          5.230 5                                   6,121 9     11,352 9
Anoumi sold                                  00                                      92 3         92 3
ofwtucb has hbno mpd                 0 0                                      92 3        92 3
Toal Undoibtnd                            2,840 7                                     15 5      2,856 3
a Incnded dcbuneenrls ino dae msus actl di3blurwetn to datea projcaed  appey                  st
b Following tho FY94 Annusi Remiew of Plobo performnce (ARPP), a Iuter based scam wva intrniuced (HS -higly sutfacecey. S su;&cwy, U - inMsusfaimory, IU - highU ) uactay) see
proposed Impnwvemems inProcc mird PcftfolioPcrfmaonc Raing Methodology (SecM94-901). Aupul 23, 199A



Page 56
Statement of IFC's Held and Disbunred Portfolio
As of Februaq 28, 2002 (In US Dollan Millions)
Held                                Disbursod
FY Approval      Company                     Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic     Loan     Equity    Quasi    Panic
i996           ~~~~~CIMA MvCXICo                            o     ou                            4 W        o       oo
1998    CiMAiviexica                   000~~~~~~~~u u  480  owu     ow        CO         40       0 00     0 00
1998                 CIMA Puebla                    6 75      0 00      0 00     0 00      3 25      0 00      000      o00
1994/01              CTAPV                          28u       000       169      000       28        0 O0      169      000
200o                 Chaus-Propa.ma                 0 (a       082      a        000       000         8 a o2  0 O      000
1997                 Camatiulindons                 241       000       1 72     4 38      2 41      000       1 72     4 31
2001                 Compamtnios                    10 0        66      0 00     0 00       1 00      0 66     0 00     0 0
1999                 Cowsa                         11 14      300      000   00o0          1 14       300      000      000
2001                 Ecomex                         500       000       1 50     000       30         000      1 50     000
2000                 Edumlon                        6 50       000      000      0 00      4 90       0 00     000      00 o
1997/0l              FoodoCbwpa                     000       41       000       0 00      0 o       054       000      00o
1998                 ForPMontaqy                   12i07      300       000     1207      1207       300       000     1207
149196               GIBSA                         1623       000      1o00     5457       1623       000     to00     5457
1993                 GIDESA                         250       00       000       0 00      250        000     0o00      00
199446/00            GIRSA                         5700       000       571     7000      5700        000      571     7000
1993                 GOTM                           033       000       000      000       033        000      0 o      0 00
1997898              G   Hiptna                     0 00      3 29      000      000       0 00       3 9      0 o      0 00
2001                 Gn>o BBVA                      0 0        2 67     00o      0 00      0 00       2 67     0 0      0 00
1494                 GniPOCa&id                    1000       600       000      750      1000        600      000      750
19S9                 Guo FEASA                      00        5 26      00o      0 00      0 00       5 26     000      000
1997                 GrLpoMm"s                     1200       1000      000     1100       1200      10o00     0o0      I00
1992M3/9519699       GrUPO Psdu                    3465       500      1500      500      3465        50O     1500      500
1998                 GrupoSaihdila 109                       000      00o       361       676        00o      00o      295
1994998/00           HelferFunCai                   000       312       000      000       000        3 12     000      000
2000                  -I.&ooal ABC                 30 00       0 00     0 00     14 00      1 76      0 an     n         i}  I M
2000                 ITR                           14         0 o 00    000      4 00      14 00      0 00     0 00      4 00
2000                 InapRak                        000       1500      000      000       000       1500      000       000
1994                Ir   ncrajnLC                   5 00      0 00      4 00     0 00      5 00       0 00     4 00     0 00
20001                 hirvacap                      0 00       1 07     0 00     0 GO      0 00       106      000       0 0o
1998                 MendelIII                     2959       000      000      7215      2959        000      000      7215
!995.V               Unln PurrIs                    0 MO      4 6       0 00     a 00      0 0n       4 46     0 00     0 00
1996,99/00/01        NEMAK                          0 0        000      9 04     0 00      00 0       000      9 03     0 o0
2000a01              P     AnAercan                 0 00       900      0 00     000       00 C       9 00     0 00      0 00
20o2                 PuIrtasFnln                   1300       000       000      000       000        00      000       000
2000                 Ru Brav                       500        0 o0      0 00    59 50      50 00      0 00     0 00     59 50
2000                 Saitillo S A                  350        0 00      000     43 00      35 o0      00 o     0 00     43 00
2V        W          sen;C 0.0               :                  90  V      00 ;   0 co  ;  0 ;0      1.         ; co  W   ; 00
2001                 SuCaUit                        0 00      1062      000      000       000       1062      000       000
1499                 Suchw                          0o00      1500      000      000       000       1500      000      000
1997                 TMA                            258       000       260      895       258        000      260       895
1992                 TolucAToll Rod                 4 83      00        0 00     000       4 83       0 00     0 00     000
1991o72              Vitro                          000      10 17      0000     000       000       10 17     000      000
1998                 Zri Mxc Eqiy Fund              0 0       15 30     0 00    0a0        0 00      1 4 77    0 00     0 00
2002                 ZN Mexeco 11                   000       10 00     000      0 00      0 0        0 90     0 00      000
1988/ 1192,93/95     Aphaco                        1030       000       000     4320      1080        000      000      4320
1998                 Ayvi                           8 57      0 00      0 00     0 00      8 57       0 00     0 00     0 00
1990192/9699         BANAMEX                       7571       000      000       549      7571        000      000       549
2001                 BBVA-Bancomer                 86 47      0 00      000      000       8647       0 00      0 00     0 00
1995199              BanngMcxfnd                    000       1182      000      000       000       1124      000       000
ToisPoitfoho                                      56460      15614     5126    43542      51493     14228      5125    422C0
Approvals Pending Commrtment
Loan     Equity    Quasi     Pantic
1998 Cm    Hermosillo              7 00      000       00       0 00
I994 BANAMEX LRF 11               50 00      0 00      0 00     0 00
2002 CoppI                        30 00      0 0       0 00     0 00
2000 Edueoo                        3 20      0 00      0 00     00O
2001 BBVA-Bmconmn CL             100 00      000       000      0 00
200 SIs CiU 0                                 000     2 40     OO)
2001 GFN&t-CL                    10000       000       000     10000
20O0 Ln CoIlGul                    4 30      0 00      6 00    1 30
20IQnaienman                       700       000       000      000
20I PanAmc-La Colox                0 00       1 20     0 00     0 00
Total Pendilng Commitment:   301.S0       1.20     8.40    11830



Page 57
Annex 11: Country at a Glance
Mexico: Municipal Development in Rural Areas
Mexico at a glance
Latin  Upp-.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                            Amernc  middl-
Mexico  & Carib .ncme    Ohvulopnu d.__.__
Peaniaffn mid4-  , OIo VBs1e U07 51e8                                          0n4y
GNI pwartb (Aux nulto4 USJV             5.070   3,6801  4.S20
GNI (Aa rrn.d US5 Mkm)                4070    1,SD5   2.986
Awnvr annuad growth. 13W-.
PpMf lm)                                  1 5     1 6      3
0r_ q _; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2        f    2   Z N .
Pmnl (U dpocuMa? Sb' ubipl fl I,s
Urban p  qalim eU dMbIWbon)               74      75      73
LH10aihcy oft pams)                       72      70   eo
flad  marfl (per 1t00  he  "00            ZO      30      28
tan hi ma Inrned wflr tounic (U ofptobbn)  Be     65     ,87
MflCf 1% Ofpombo, ks 15+                   9      12      10        -   ak
CG  pmay nwtt- is o   hoo-g opuftsJ       114    113     10T            ak
-Male                                   lie             100           Upuppenm-n-0-
FXrdf1                                  113            '105
ItEY ECONOMYIC RATIOS and LONtTERIA TRENiDS
Econornic mOot'
GDP VSI ibofs)                   223 5  292 7   4794    674 5
Gkosdomc hwflfbVODP               27 2   231     23 5    23 3               Trde
E,s of goondsar umAGDP            107    18 6    30 9    314
Gros domec sVIng'G                24 9   22 0    21 9    21 5
GQn na       GDilalf3P            22 4   20 3    205     201                  J
Cumtnt  tufl bammiGOP             -4 7   -2.8    40      -341     m
hin.ruuvernwntaASDP                2 0    2.2     2 1    2 0 Ocn
TOM dWUDP                         25 7   390     350     260 
TOdemmioW     wts                 45 4   209     251     32 7
ProsetwahAold btlGIDP                            33 0    23t. 
Prtua u1AS d dabtop                       .,    102 a    n 8
1980-40 1,040   1m      DOO   2D00044             h
1 (amgs manual  ~ ~ ~    1  3i IOi)                               IxI
LDP                         14 31         38      69     43             Merc
GDP W cbpit                -10     1 4    23      54      2 3           Uppe'udInwmconegmp
Eotofpod    O wvlo          7 0   140    12 4    ISO     aff , 
STRUCTURE ol f  ECONOMY
19Jo   1900    it     20.    OrwUm of lnaInaoi aud GDP (U)
Aplafn                             900    78      47      44    4.
btjato                            33 6   26 4    26 8    284 4     I
6Mwfactwlng                      22 3   208     211    207 7
6evin                             57 4   03 7    08 5    07 3  .    W       to 5i0}  n  It  OD
130v co   iun                     6551   o4 a    e7 1    87 5 
Genera avrnuSmde iwiuWn           100     84     1009     1 0               GD
Inafl cgoo" an saMoa              13 0   19 7    32 4    33 2                     -a GDP
1840 119040      tm     2000   1-             d
AgoOnu                             08     IS      20 2i TI
hltby                              1 1    38      42      66  ||
Mmanuft                           15     44      42     7t1   is
SacouS                             14     29      37      74 4
Prv uaWtisu±i46M                   1 4    2 4     4 3     9               as IN t           on
IGwml gnmffwl uoxmpon              2 4    I C     3 o     3 5   > 
San dMitIc awammt       h         -3 3    46      41      S
I IIRxW.Sfgoodsafnd VirSi           10    123     138     21
I   _                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MM 2000ds dl priJmluwy sdmgts
| The diammna  b  r ky k    Ia In Ih couwy (h bold) camprd wiSh im lncornLmp snags If deatn alsaung, the dlanod Wll
be 



Page 58
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
i1_      lOl       im       Sui
N   n9eW) h 
Consumerwpin                                        267       168       95
Impicf GDP deflat                          334      281       149      109     20
Owi mrkldft                                46< -2             -1        1
Govemmreit fnaince                                                             1
' cfGDP, Indudes cumnlnn g JosI
Curnrntw enu                               27 4     25 3     20 9      21 8            9    90    6r    s 6
Cunwl 1dgl balmce                           4 1     0 9        15       Z0             -     GDP dta     _ICP
Oa%fll surpluSdelk                         4 6      -26e       1 t     -1 
TRADE
a Mt mhm i,l                              lsgo     1090      19       200D     |       w     p lewir 1U US rrll)
TYtlexpaltchb)                           1284    40.711    136,39t1  I6645        n  .
Ott                                     10.41   10104      9.928   18.363
Awcltue                                  1528    2.182     3.926    4 217     1s   .
Mz,ufd,                                 3,802   27.828   122.055  145.334
Total ir  sl(CM                          19,342  41,583   141,975   174,458    100 .00
Coisune goods                           2448     5,099    12.175   16801                 =_
t.-tm., ml i  v                        11,7m    29? 7    1 M.7,t  it'ktt =OM=                      =    = 
CAplWa goods                             5.174   8.790    20.530   24 1t30         _
Expor P     nde7 1995a10)                   134      99        98      108 6               91  98   2r   9    U   w
I01p9  pft bindx (1995. t00)                87       90        9S      102                *    rExi     *wip
Tams of lrde(1995-100)                     201      110        99      103
RACE of PAYMENTS
((15S                                     tirO     io90      1S199    2O       Current mount baice to GOP (%I
E    nSgddgwsand mnvit                   22,800  48.732   148,03   180,167    0     .    r        
hipm  o goods g  sd ke                   27,430  61,53    l55,485  190,494    
Resource beWfce                          -4,830   -2,83     -7.362  -10,326   !2
Nel hinra                                -8,438  -8,628    -13,308  -14,747
Not aidranfrsn                             O33    3,978     8.313     6.94     - 
Curnt aC10ri berlc                      .10,434   -7,451   -14 375  .18,0
Fhwidnigu  ns (nefp                      11,453  10,990    149S9    20,901
Changes hi ret reserv                    -1,019   -3548      -594    -2,822
Camrson We (DEC bcsWVSS)               2 OOE-2     2 8       9 6      9 5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1wo      1990      Is       2000
(USS nvg0cnsj                                                                  Coupoideon of 200 dnt (USS nmtl I
Tot doN eb  itdha om dishreed            57378   104,442   187.626  tS4,687                                          1 1
IBRD                                    2.0S3  11.030    11027     11,44                        A 11 44
IDA                                        0        0         0        0             022744              4          l 
Total deb  *                             10.8958  11 311   39.760    63,038                                 F    
[ORD                                     255    1.552     2155     2220
IDA                                        0        0         0        0( 
ConpotDoi  d or na moursrce flos
O0C isats                                 14       54
Ofxf   calodsors                         795    4,168     -1,706    -W52
PrIvala cachus                          -524     -582    13,181    -5.059
FI       directqu th                       0 2,156  2,549  31,915  134285
|Pigdbequtty                               0      5S3     3,902,1    478 1 ,1  13142
Woam  Ant pogrun
Cacnbmne                                 625    2.52      1.671     ii30     A A-IBRD                   E-tsfl"
|DisbuswTbfW                             422    3.326       844     1,847    | 1 IO6A  D *ew i0   twal1   F - Prl   |
Prhldpetm ernprml                         89      801     1.323     1,330    C C-ISF                    G Slwt.wv
Neotfan                                  333    2 525      -479      318
Intl Pament                              188      751       8         m32  89
Net trsnr                                167    1,774     -1.311    473
|Deveopnenm Eonomis                                                                                     .      i- 1     j



Page 59
Annex 12
Municipal Development in Rural Areas Project
Social Assessment and Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
This document presents, in two sections: (1) the general Social Assessment of the Municipal Development
in Rural Areas Project, and (ii) the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (TPDP). The social assessment
deals with the general sncial conditionn of all of the beneficiries of the pmiect in the fouir states Tt Rlso
identifies amnong beneficiaries a significant proportion of indigenous peoples concentrated in two of the
project states. The social assessment depicts an existing social participation strategy with strong emphasis
on social participation, and community and municipal-level decision taking.
LAIC Indir.nous Peoples  Aep n     l. de ais   4-W.4AL%. 4 J i 4A1( UId.151ewus jJpopULaEII, LLIUIJ asoc,ai
and cultural context and defines ways to strengthen a social and cultural participation strategy specific for
indigenous communities and municipalities. One major finding is that indigenous communities' access to
the benefits of the predecessor project, DRD 11, have been more than proportional, though there are
demands for more information and training to improve subproject execution.
1. Social Assessment
This Social Assessment covers seven main points: 1. Introduction, 2. Project Objective, 3. Background and
PAl,tPa_I rnnt^vt A npnsra;^7roa  C Qn..lI rCo;taI A LAein inetihicf,tnn  an,c m.cn.mm Trnnds4, And
Social and Cultural Strategy.
1.1 Introduction
Main Social Assessment Activities.
The axis of the social assessment was the field work performed by an interdisciplinary team of consultants
integrated by specialists in social sciences with experience in rural development, indigenous culture and
municipal governance Some consultants were proposed by and recruited from civil society organizations
with an important background as consultants to indigenous municipal governments. Field work included
wnrkshnno and interviews in 2t mimirinalities of the foir csttes in the nroiert- GuAn igatn  Phi7hla
Veracruz and Zacatecas. Nine of these municipalities had important indigenous population. Main people
consulted were 23 municipal presidents, 99 other municipal staff, 130 small community leadens, over 800
community beneficiaries and 26 representatives of local and national civil society organizations. Other
consultations with state and federal staff and national scope civil society organizations were additional to
f'he fie lA wot.4
For specific information on indigenous peoples (besides field work) the Indigenous Profiles, a World Bank
supported study made by prestigious Mexican institutions and consultants, was amply consulted,
particularly the well developed Veracruz Indigenous Profile. The Puebla Indigenous Profile is under
preparation In the second section of this document. the IPDP, there is a more detailed treatment of
indigenous issues.
Main Social Assessmen!findings
These findings corespond to inquiries made about the functioning of Ramo 33, which is the ongomg
nrnamm, thot woui!d he suinnotetd hy thp nrniprt
* After four years of operation, beneficiaries know about the program, its objectives and
mechanisms, but requested fuller understanding of project mechanisms;
* Marginal and highly marginal (poorer) population has benefited the most from the project.
Nevertheless infrastructure investments are usuaiiy seen as grants from the government rather than
a citizen or community right;
* There was no major cnticism on the basic structures for decision making and monitoring
(COPLADEMUN, community assemblies, comites de obras). There was however criticism on
opre ative *ses.a suchk  insu"`*c.en.  sources or act..-a comm.ni.y.  ...:. r was e.... -,a
at.%l4L  IaauJ-  -~4   10. - lLS- hi(*(1 l A (atW .t) 1  a(IWO (UE LUE II J i SUE I LI4a. L LICJ U   UCIfIU



Paes 60
for logistic support to participation (e g, meals, transportation, compensations for time spent by
representatives)
*   Participants in the consuliation demanded more information and training on communities rights
and operational issues
*   The social assessment identified a significant indigenous population concentrated on Ill
municipalities of the States of Puebla and Veracruz. In the selected municipalities there is one
million of Indigenous Language Speakers out of a total of 5 8 million inhabitants. According to
indigenous representatives, experts and state governments the actual number of indigenous
population is much larger
These consultation findings are considered in the design of the social and cultuml strategy.
1.2. Proiect Obiective
The Municipal Development in Rural Areas aims to reduce the incidence of rural poverty by (i) supporting
investments in basic small-scale social and productive infrastructure, utilizing a proven effective
community-driven development (CDD) approach, (ii) strengthening municipal administrative and technical
capacity to tncrease the efficiency of mLunicipal investments, and (iii) deepening the ongoing
decentralization from Federal to State and Municipal levels.
To achieve this objective, the Project main Component will finance creation, maintenance and
rehabilitation of small-scale public and social infrastructure including- water supply, sewage, drainage and
latrmnes, small scale electnfication, health posts, schools and education facilities, rural roads rehabilitation,
town mafkFeLt, hLusi.i5 EIIlpIovLIuCIt, IU ul Uii uutctivu  UuLULW  Ha 3CUUIU t.cUlplUlpIlCL Will
address institutional development issues, such as (i) dissemination of information (mainly on beneficiaries
rights and operational issues); (iii) training for comrnunity capacity building and (iv) training for cultural
and social participation awareness of key actors of the State and Municipal Administrations (including
COPLADEMUN).
1 3 Background and Political Context.
The project builds on the successful experiences of two previous decentralization projects and supports an
ongoing federal, state and municipal program with four years of operational experience (1998 -2001). This
Proiect supports the trend, recommended by its predecessor Bank Project, of increased resources and
decision taking capabilities transferred from the federal to the municipal level in a transparent way.
Allocation of municipal finds is now done by formnulas of general application instead of discretionary
criteria Furthermore, forrmulas are designed to compensate poverty indicators and therefore per capita
allocation is significantly higher for municipalities with higher extreme poor and poor population The new
re-gulatorv framework calls for ample sncisl participation in the municipal deision making mechanisms.
The project is the result of deepening democratization occurnng in the country in the last years. Ramo 33
was bom out of a new balance of power among political parties in Congress that allowed for a big step
towards decentralization. It agrees with other important political change related to the composition of
_: _:__|__.I J_ _      {A. f_.._                     -4_ ._iAAL-        . 1 A 1-VA_t+_ _.. I%FA_ A
IIIUIEIIb"JdJ (UUILUUJ YrVUfll 11111 3UULLLI~ 116SttU vL IE I V,LLtvLLVi3 VAi Ul _ Yv1A 1 61U11a ULAQ uViIIMLsU
iin the municipal elections) that took away the "governance clause" that gave majority voting to the largest
party. Today political parties are represented at the municipal "cabildo" matching their percentage of votes.
This change increased transparency and accountability by giving municipal opposition parties a saying
(often a veto power) on municipal decision taking.
1 4 Beneficiaries.
The project is targeted to the poorer population of the stales of Guanajuato, Puebla, Veracruz and
Zacatecas Rural population is known to be the poorest in Mexico. Out of the 25.9 million Mexicans who
live ,n c.m..mU.tLes of under 2,500 fl ha-oitons,  ext/me ,v n',Inm e nnertt, Wi, inrfn  lownr than one
dollar a day. Extreme poverty reaches even higher figures m indigenous households.
The project will support infrastructure investments in rural and indigenous municipalities and the
development of municipal institutions. The selected municipalities are those in which at least 50% of the



Page e1
population live in communities of less than 2,500 inhabitants. Total population in these municipalities is
5.8 million people in 344 municipalities.
According to their degree of marginality these municipalities are distributed as follows:
T.                        l -I  
DEGREE OF MARGINALr         uanajuato      Puebia      veracruz     tacatecas      Total
Very High              2             51           61            0            114
High                           3            35           41    __ _     4    _       83
Medium                        22             56           35           24           137
jer low                        0             0            0             0            0
Total                         28            142          138           36           344
Source: Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Municipal. CEDEMUN Web Page: www.cedemun.9ob.mx
Rural municipalities largely coincide, in the states of Puebla and Veracruz, with a higher proportion of
indigenous population In order not to leave out an important segment of indigenous population,
municipalities with more than 30% of indigenous language speakers (ILS) were also included (each of
_ _                        _                                            U._ A . ..  tAflfl :_L_L .__...\ _  CO  _:IIl.. L_.W.  >   _ __._
Ulese I*LumirLijaiusia UJIUVI IJ1VoIV uuiauiiama.  IlU t.O * ilIlUll UILlLIlC: IIJICIILUILIU UIUUC ULIC
million ILS (an indicator of a larger indigenous population). However, the indigenous presence in the four
states area is quite heterogeneous. The states of Puebla and Veracruz have high percentages of indigenous
population in I l I municipalities in which there is a long indigenous history and persisting traditions; the
other two states have very low percentages of indigenous population, most of them immigrants in the states
iarger cities.
1.5. Social capital
Rural municipalities superpose different models of organization at local, regional and national levels The
moar avie ind o." sura" ooI f f           os enrn1eN-n -ar ntIn.a.ei .;o-  tka  . o m.,n.*.
themselves; the mere fact of inhabiting in a locality means the right to participate in community assemblies.
Comununities are entitled to:
a) elect a representative to the Municipal Planning and Development Council (Comitd de Planeacidn y
Desarrollo Municpal. COPLADEMUNO. b) to present proposals for local investments in social and
productive inf6astructure, c) to appoint specific beneficiaries monitoring committees (Comifs de Obras) to
follow up implementation, and d) to administer and take responsibility for built infrastructure.
Other important organizations in the four states are based on collective property or nghts to land, like
Ejidos, Comunidades Agrarias, Asociaciones Rurales de Interes Colectivo, Sociedades de Solidaridad
Social, Sociedades de Produccion Rural, Uniones de Crtdito and nwnerous organizations of rural producers
(coffee, pineapple, sugar cane, livestock and other specific associations). Leadership of this kind of local-
regional organizations greatly overlap with community representatives
There are organizations, in Puebla and Veracruz, with an ethnic identification. Examples of them are, in
Puebla, Cooperativa Agropecuaria Tosepan Titataniske, Organizaci6n Independiente Totonaca,
Organizacion Regional Nihuatl Independiente; in Veracruz, Consejo Regional Indigena, Coordinadora
Regional de Organizaciones lndigenas de la Sierra de Zongolica, Consejo Indigena de Uxpanapa. Some
represent alliances over ethnic differences like Comite pam la Defensa de los Derechos Indigenas
Chinanteco, Zoaue, Totonaca or Uni6n Pro Defensa de los Pueblos Indigenas Zooue - Ponoluca - NAhuati-
In the State of Zacatecas organizations of absent migrants have an important role to play on local decisions
due to the importance of their remittances and are promoting local organization. Guanajuato and Zacatecas
have regional finrmer organizations that tend to be affiliates of national organizations like the
Confederaci6n Nacional Campesina or Uni6n Nacional de Organizaciones Regionales Campesinas
A tionoamas or A.coriardin dNacinale Ea4mrAo..e Cnmprriapoc cm,,sana
During the last years, due to higher municipal decision capabilities and higher resources, local politics have
become more attractive for local and regional organizations. There are successful experiences of local
organizations, some of them indigenous (in Puebla and Veracruz), winning municipal presidencies.



Page 62
Three organizations of municipal presidents tend to figure as increasingly important actors in promoting the
general municipal interests at the state and federal levels: Asociaci6n de Municipios de M6xico, A C
(AMMAC), Asociaci6n de Autoridades Locales de Mexico A.C. (AALMAC) and Federaci6n Nacional de
Municipios de Mtxico (FENAMM).
Some NGOs of urban ongin are actively supporting rural development (like Fundacion Mexicana para el
Desarrollo Rural, and Anadeges) and, more specifically mndigenous municipalities' governments (like
Equipo Pueblo)
1.6. Main Institutional and Economic Trends
Federal Government Withdrawal
During the last twenty years there has been an important rationalization of field staff of public institutions
in rural marginal areas. CommunicalLon channeis between the federai goverment and rurai popuiation
have become incTeasingly shallow.
In the case of Ramo 33, as well as in other public programs, decentralization has implied an important
switch of operational responsibilities towards municipal administration structures that have not fully
Adve.l-op  nrnnnnnt. rannbhilitme  A agnpml depnmnrl n muino,t-PQ is tk t the. tp-ntroi*7t-n
processes (not only of Ramo 33) be accompanied by additional transfers of human resources, technical and
administrative capacities and fuiancing
Economy
Agriculiurai aciiviiiue prevvi m wie ibCicciud tunicipai comimi-uniiiies. in rueb;i idw Verucruz wuere arc
mainly traditional peasant economies, in Guanajuato and Zacatecas there is usually a more modem
agricultural activity. In the four states (particularly mn Zacatecas) the comrnunities' income is increased with
the remittances from migrants who have found jobs in the big US cities.
A 20 yvnm nld nlral mnnoverishment trend, narticularlv imnnrtant in neaant and mndigenous comnmunities*
is linked mainly to the growing isolation of rural producers from the market. Besides severe detenoranon in
their exchange relationships (diminishing relative prices for rural products) and a growing difficulty to
place their production in the market (whether livestock, agriculture or rural mdustry products) Reduced
opportnities of rural employment outside the communities (such as in coffee, cotton, sugar, fruits and
vegetable c.ps       . Arn ;.-.,b. activ ,-t,es tconsnc,nt   hns Lnsla:ed '-l,.A  a ..-oFn Aan;..4-t4n nf 'heir
income level.
Local oligopolies on commercialization and services (credit, technical assistance, transport) have been
strengthened resulting in higher transaction costs. Reduction of local food self-sufficiency levels leads to
increased need for external monetary input and growing emigration.
l 7. Social and Cultural Strategy
The predecessors of this project, DRD I and DRD 11, were essentially small-scale infrastructure investment
projects. This Municipal Development in Rural Areas Project has a wider approach that includes a general
bu,, fl41nicie aOrt1 cnra.e dlpcilmed tn adhimict tn rliffprpnt cniai anrd rnfh1iral rnntytc Thic ic nnt sn_
addition to the design but an intnnsic part directed to improved targeting and enhance the quality of small-
scale municipal infrastructure investments.
The project supports the continuation of the basic participatory design that was implemented under the
DRD 1I Its main features are
*   Community assembly decisions on infrastructure investment proposals to be submitted to the
COPLADEMUN.
*   Community assembly appointment of a representative to COPLADEMUN.
-   1l..         ..st*nmnct ,-:nr..to....eon..   en: d s:ons =Aen by CO PLADEMUN Us..ally fOPLAD E A rN.f have a
majority (about 70%) of community representatives.
*   Transparency on budget allocations to Municipalities and on community allocations to
subprojects



Page 63
*   Community appointment of Comatds de Obras (citizen's monitoring comrnittee) for each of the
nfrastructure subprojects In the community
*   Voluntarv community counterpart investment, often in labor or local materials. (A way to secure
individual and local ownership).
Consultations on the project point out to opportunities of improvement; they are included in the project to
open the way for increased decision-making participation of the poorest and most vulnerable groups, inter-
alia indigenous peoples. The main activities of the social strategy are:
*   Dissemination to citizens and communities of benefits and operational mechanisms under the
project.
*   Training on participatory mechanisms and building comnmunities capabilities to contribute to the
design, execution, monitoring and evaluation of the project.
*   Promotion of social participation.
The axis of the specific design of the social strategy will be the systematization of a methodology to
promote participatory social and cultural municipal self-diagnostics, through Desde to Local methodology.
CEjJiv Ml4 f1 at-onal riouecCto-i.to Fn; T i:lk dv lop  'e  e.d:;,supporting4 maten-a:is and
!...E.UIIVLLJF4 IklflLIUI1I UUJUL t-vuIuuativlUViE IL) Will u~Vciuj. Ulc, 11c1UMUU4VY, ~~ULl5IwcIE  L
training to State Technical Units. STUs will promote the Desde lo Local's self diagnostics at the municipal
and community levels and train Municipalities authorities and COPLADEMUN representatives in the
methodology. From the results obtained, CEDEMUN will develop and execute (with the support of the
municipalities), a strategy for information dissemination, tramining and promotion of social participation,
giving an speciai attention to the development of socialiy and cuiturally appropnate regionai/ municipai
social strategies for indigenous people.
2. Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan
This second part of the document, the IPDP, is concerned with compliance with the Bank's O.D. 4 20 and
covers the following aspects 1. Introduction, 2 Legal Framework and Indigenous Rights, 3 Indigenous
People in the Project Municipalities, 4 Indigenous People Participation in the Political Life of
Municipalities, 5. Indigenous Peoples' Share of Benefits of DRD 11 and Ramo 33, 6. Indigenous Peoples'
Development Plan.
2.i introuucuion
This section is based on two main sources. One is the field municipal and ommrunity consultation already
described in the introduction to the social assessment and, second, the Indigenous Peoples Profiles studies
supported by the World Bank and conducted by highly recognized institutions and experts in Mexico. One
of thi animc of the Profile of the Meurnon rndioennim Pennipe ic reflert itc lessnsc in ofloing ntd npw
operations.
Main findings related to the indigenous population were similar to the general rural population plus:
*   Puebla and Veracruz have an important indigenous peoples population, concentrated in Ill
muniH;palities wherU utey - u t ie major-Ly. THere were 9i municipal presidents tnat spoKe an
indigenous language in the year 2000 (no data for the current presidents)
*   Although there are one million Indigenous Language Speakers in the selected municipalities, state
authorities, academics, and indigenous peoples consider a much bigger indigenous population
The MeXLivan legal famrework statsc *ta! self inr.iFcation as indigenous is the main cntena to
determine whether an individual or a community is indigenous. There is high cultural and
language diversity among indigenous peoples with at least 10 different ethnic groups in both
states. The Indigenous Profile for Veracruz indicates at least 50 dialects.
*   Ethnicity is an important basis for local and regional organizations in both states.
*   Indigenous communities have been benefited more than proportionally by DRD 11 and Ramo 33
There is, however, strong demand for better information and training to strengthen participation on
design and execution of investments.



Page 84
2.2. Mexican Legal Framework on Indigenous Rights
Recent changes in the Political Constitution of the Mexico have resulted in the acknowledgement of the
multi-culiural nature of the Mexican State and of the rignts of indigenous peopies in the country r nese
changes have been driven by an increasing indigenous cultural awareness in large population groups.
Currently there is an important discussion related to the legal status of indigenous peoples that will
probably result in more legal refonns to their benefit.
Article 2 of the Constitution states, arnong other elements, that:
* The nation has a multi-cultural composition originally sustained on its indigenous peoples which
are descendant of populations that lived in the current country territory when colonization started
and who have maintained their own social, economic, cultural and political institutions or part
thereon;
*   The conscience of an indigenous identity is a fundamental criterion to determine where the
indigenous people dispositions apply, and
*   Indigenous peoples right to free determination will be exercised in a constitutional framework of
freedom that will assure national unity. The recognition of indigenous peoples and communities
..:11 k-A r- ^ _ A A> II= cnt--ns ar- lawsr of;h fA-- enA> I-A+
Will lJu  u   ML ul  JI UI ulU Il3  iUAQ *C L   uI us ; ELutiLl  L.lltltl;.3
The constitution recognizes and guarantees autonomy rights to mdigenous peoples and communities to:
* Decide its internal manners of living together and its economic, social, political and cultural
organization;
*   Apply its own regulatory systems to regulate and solve intemal conflicts, abiding by the general
principles of this Constitution, respecting individual guarantees, human rights, and in a relevant
manner, women's dignity and integrity;
I EtL UU flUU1ULILIs Ur represenive a*W..UEI5 .o tllrU LiaGUILIOJ IUIes, p.rocedUrVe aJLU
practices, to exercise their own type of internal government, assuring participation of women in
similar conditions as men; and
*   Elect representatives from indigenous communities to municipal town halls.
e   !n orer to prormote equal oporfti±nities to the. innipnnie  nnnnlntionsc And Pltminqtp Anv
discriminatory practice, the Federation, the states and the municipalities will establish the
institutions and determine the necessary policies to guarantee the effectiveness of indigenous
rights and the integral development of indigenous peoples and communities, which must be
designed and implemented with their participation.
Mexico has signed the 169 ILO (International Labor Organization) Agreement accepting the following as
part of its own legal system:
*   Self-identification as indigenous or tnbal shall be regarded as a fundamental criterion for
determining the groups to which the provisions of this Convention apply.
*   Governments shall have the responsibility for developing, with the partcipation of the peoples
concerned, coordinated and systematic action to protect the rights of these peoples and to
guarantee respect for their integrity.
*   Such action shall include measures for
(a) Ensuring that members of these peoples benefit on an equal footing from the rights and
opportunities which national laws and regulations grant to other members of the population,
(b) Promoting rhe fui realization ofuihe socia;, econouni and c-uLu-ral rights of thexC  pCupies wiUh
respect for their social and cultural identity, their customs and traditions and their institutions;
(c) Assistmg the members of the peoples concemed to eliminate socio-economic gaps that may
exist between indigenous and other members of the national community, in a manner
rnrnnntihlp with thelir apirations and ways nf life=



Page 65
In sum, the peoples concerned, through these various legal and institutional armngements, have
the right to decide their own priorities for the process of development as it affects their lives,
beliefs, institutions and spiritual well-being and the lands they occupy or otherwise use, and to
exercise control, to the extent possible, over their own economic, social and cultural development.
In addition, they shall participate in the formulation, implementation and evaluation of plans and
programs for national and regional development which may affect them directly.
2.3. Indigenous Peoule m the Proiect Municipalities
One of the most relevant indicators of indigenous presence in the selected states and municipalities is the
percentage of "Indigenous language speakers" - ILS, among the population above five years old.
According to census figures, indigenous language speakers -ILS- presence is as follows:
Indigenous Language Speakers
State          State            Project           % ILS in Project Municipalities
Municipalities
1. Guanajuato         10,689 I           3,974      1                      0.29
2. Puebla            565,509           433,684       [                     32.45      ]
3. Veracruz          633,372           545,593                            21 17
4. Zacatecas           1,837               692                             0.13
T.he Pol:*c-! hn.t..;n os- Un rad MexicLan Vtnt  ra w e other applicble aws c :anid.u. h.as .-el
identification with, or the conscience of belonging to, an indigenous group, is the fundamental criteria to
define someone as an indigenous population integrant. In general tenns, indigenous organizations, public
officials and experts m the subject reject that the number of indigenous language speakers is the only
criterion to calculate indigenous population and recommend the inclusion of cultural criteria (food, health
and sanitary hauits, rei.glous icsIvities, land atwtnHICra, WOUuhiLg, hiuusing fcaiures and othen).
It is important to point out the gradual and subtle cultural continuum between the indigenous and the non
indigenous, which renders its identification a complex task. The population census of the year 2000
mdicates a total of 6.45 million of ILS, while the Instituto Nacional Indigenista, with additional criteria,
considers there are no iess than 10 miiion indigenous people. other experts rise the figure between 12 and
14 million people. The census in the state of Veracruz registered 633 thousand ILS, while the state
authorities and indigenous leaders speak of no less than 1.3 million indigenous people.
An extrapolation of such estimates would lead mto thinking that even municipal communities with only
,     -ell could, mn c--- circumstances be iden......A:ife  fi..en : -.
,qW/g Vs IL~0 VuluIU  amI Ultii ~LL MJIMW~  UC &U~I1LiZIUU 043 EULLU0JEI~EIfIIRY IIIUIMCIUJUU. I III~ WUUIU tG IC I
case when the difference between indigenous language speakers and non-speakers is fundamentally
generational (gandparents are ILS), the community has an indigenous historical background, and other
persistent indigenous cultural characteristics. This reasoning would not apply to areas with relatively
recent indigenous migration, weak indigenous historical-cultural background and where ILS data could
indicate a diferemn social group.
Because of its demographical background, culture, history and traditions, the indigenous presence can be
considered a majority (at least more than 50%) in the municipalities of Puebla y Veracruz with over 20% of
ILS Thus there are a total of 49 indigenous municipalities in Veracruz and other 62 in Puebla.



Page 66
Veracruz. Indigenous language speakers of 5 or more years of age.
Language        |10                 ,                                  1995
I                       I - Ahsalute  Relative  I Absolute  F Relative              Raii
Total 'ils'population mn the  634 208   100.006   580 386 -1   100l00    5 90 829    100.
state
Nahuatl                   347 597       54.80     294711        50.781   314 121      53.16
Totonaca                   117533        18.53     lli 305      19.18    115 455       19.54
iiu as tec o               If t 364      /.D U     i o 5ff       I 8.0    41 o u       75 U.')
Popoluca                   21 249        35___     29 201        5 3      34 261       5.B
Z-apoteco                  24 631        3 88      22 180        3 82         _        3.41
Chinanteco                  7 627         1.20       16 284      2.80     I i7 4       2
Otoml                       17 995       2.84      15 986        2.75     15 688       2.65
Mazateco                    5 7661       0.91       6 533       1.2|      8 247        1.40
Tepehua                     6 489         1.02      5 742        0 99      5 937        i.00
Mixteco                     5 747        0 91       3 674        0.63      3 311       0.56
Zoque                         237        0.04|      2 790        0.48      2 4011      0.40
AA . e.                      1,170/      09 A       IO !97 _ 5 ,           1 A47       0l,(
Maya                        2 042J _        3       131          0.23|       96        0.16
Note: Only the languages with a larger number of speakers are considered. The missing amounts and
percentages to reach 100.00% represent ianguages with a small number of speakers an non-specified cases.
Sources: Luz Maria Valdes y Maria Teresa Menendez. DIndmica de la poblac:dn de habla indigena (1900-
1980u). Miexxico, SEP-iNiAH, 1987.
INEGI. XI Censo depoblaczdny vvienda, 1990.
IN EGI. Conteo de poblacidn y vvienda, 1995 Resuktados definitivos Tabulador bds,co, 1996. 3
vols (Veracruz, vol. 3).
Most rural indigenous inhabitants identify first with their community and with their ethnic group m a very
close geographical area, then they identify themselves as Mexicans. The identification with their broad
ethnic group is usually very weak. One of the reasons to explain this is that each indigenous ethnic group
has its own cultural characteristics; even among communities of the sarne ethnic group there are important
d1'lCurenue:  resu:nil ig . &U-1- uhei g derg  of iso iorIUii, coLU .iJoILIV i e UE UICII LIUbC CIIVUULUIICIIL, Lu-iruliUilLy
background, access to mass media, regional trade centers, educational and health services. All literate
population reads and wntes in Spanish, and all monolingual population is illiterate.
It is important to mention that each ethnic group has dialectal difFerences that make understanding difficult
aTnong speakers of the same langiiage who live in distant vilIaaes- In the case of Veracniz some 05
different dialects are identified by in its Indigenous Profile (a study supported by the World Bank) On the
other side 87% of ILS speak Spanish.
The indigenous profile of the State of Puebla is in its elaboration process It may be said, however that the
pro.xilliLy oi Ul . LV oLUL%. , 3UJls III U.e .  Ii Ul tl o  123%. .e Iu ., icoups, \ l uQas, G31I,
Tepehuas and Rafthils [Otomi] in the case of Puebla), and in similar socio cultural traits.
2.4. Indigenous People Particioation in the Political Life of Municipalities
it has already been mentioned, in the first section of this annex, the existence of some experiences where
indigenous organizations have arrived to the control of the municipal government through democratic
competition. It should be also pointed out that according to a CEDEMUN survey on municipal presidents
there were 41 ILS among them in the state of Veracruz and another 50 m Puebla in the year 2000. This
number of a total of 92 ILS in both states, plus other indigenous municipal presidents that are not ILS, is an
indicator of the very high possibility of indigenous municipalities having an indigenous municipal
president.



Page 67
2.5 Indigenous Peoples' share of the benefits of DRD II and Ramo 33.
Indigenous peoples have been the most benefited group of DRD 11 and present Ramo 33 due to the
following:
*   Poverty alleviation objective. DRD 11 expressly stated that Bank financed investments were to be
directed to poverty alleviation. This now holds for all Ramo 33 investments.
*   Allocation formula. DRD 11 strongly recommended the use of a pro-poor formula for budget
allocation. The formula favors highly marginal and marginal municipalities in a three to one ratio
over low marginality municipalities. Most indigenous communities are located in municipalittes
rated as high or very high in the marginality indicators.
* The states of Puebla and Veracruz have strongly promoted at the COPLADEMIJN meetings
investments in three "basic" mvestments: access to water, sewage and electricity. These states add
significant state counterpart investment in municipaiities that adopt these priorities. ny tneir own
nature (household and commnunity located) these priorities usually mean small investments in
disadvantaged communities; indigenous communities are more than proportionally represented i
this segment.
_ ecent chLn.es n the poli ical  ------ IM-..It;.n   ,o,vrta.-A mu-Itinar, -eec-tive and
legislative powers at the federal, state and municipal governments) and increased awareness of
indigenous rights translate into increased transparency and accountability.
2.6 Indienous PeoRies Deveiopment Pian
The project will support the definition and implementation of socio-cultural strategies at the municipal
level. The strategies will help communities to make consistent use of municipal investments and programs
to pursue their specific social, ethnic and cultural goals. The main device to start the preparation of these
strategies are autodiagndsticos (self-evaluations), conducted by the Municipalities with the
COPLADEMUNs support. This autodiagnosuico is known as "Desde lo Local" (Descentralizaci6n
Estraidgica para el Desarrollo de lo Local) The methodological instruments of the Desde lo Local would
include sections to address the identification of ethnic, linguistic, and cultural traits, and would be
translated into the main ethnic language
Capacities required to perform this planning function will be strengthened through Component Two of the
Project over the life of the project To start the process, the immediate strengthening of capacities will
come from hiring external support, with funds allocated through Component Two.
CEDEMUN will play a key role initially in guiding the development of the Desde lo Local System as
standardized tool and a viable methodology which could then be implemented in each municipality For
this purpose, CEDEMUN will deploy the services of specialists in socio-cultural assessment (e.g.,
anthropologists, sociologists) in order to (i) bring sufficient rigor to the overall exercise; (ii) ensure that
cul-raliy appropriate mechanisms ar ncornnroteA mm the Liagn%aostic kit to effectivelu reach the expected
diversity in the project municipalities; (iii) design the dissemination campaign; and (iv) design and develop
a monitonng and evaluation system including the software required . Development of the diagnostic kit
would also entail an ongoing dialogue with the Municipalities and COPLADEMUNs throughout the four
states, to encourage a strong "buy-in" to the exercise and its intended product. Once developed, the
diagnostic kit of the "Desde lo c;al" would become pwt of u'.e project Operational viaranl.
Subsequent to the development of the socio-cultural diagnostic kit, a series of intensive training activities
would be conducted to properly equip both STU personnel and representatives of COPLADEMUNs in the
elaboration of the municipal autodiagn6sticos following the "Desde lo Local" methodology created for this
piimos   fliven the petensive georPnhic coverage of the nrniect- as well as the overall aim of
strengthening federalism in Mexico, a "training of trainers" approach would be pursued. Under this
approach, CEDEMUN would instruct selected STU personnel in the proper deployment of the diagnostic
kit at the municipal level; then, STU staff would, in turn, carry out training activities with the



Page 68
COPLADEMUNs in their respective states. As stated earlier, the autodiagn6suicos would detail the
specific socio-cultural characteristics of the municipality and provide inputs toward defining the basic
needs at the community level. To this end, given that the COPLADEMUN is itself a representative council
of community-level constituents. it is expected that these local-level representative will each play a strong
role in consulting, identifying and expressing community basic needs in the COPLADEMUN and as part of
the overall process of elaborating the autodragn6snicos.
Once completed, the autodiagndstico would be used by the municipalities hearing the COPLADEMUN to
formulate Planes de Desarrollo Municipal. The formulation of these plans would be the responsibility of
the municipalities hearing the COPLADEMUN, with guidance and technical assistance provided for its
completion through the STU and other civil society organizations. At a mmimnum, the Planes de Desarrollo
Municipal would detail the actions and activities required to address the demands identified in the
aurodragnosrico (Desde lo Local), specify those responsible for carrying out these activities, identifying
the role of the Federal, State, Municipal Governnents and Community , identify a timefrarne for their
completion, and stipulate the sources of additional resources (e g, finance) that may be necessary for their
attainment. The communication of the Planes de Desarrollo (Municipal Social Development Plan) will rely
on culturally appropriate media for reaching all elements of municipal society (e.g, indigenous radio
broadcasts, interpretation facilities for municipal-level meetings, etc )  Throughout this process, the
learning experiences of the different actors will he crucial in order to ensure the success of the apprach,
and to sham from such experiences.
Monitoring and Evaluation: CEDEMUNs monitoring and evaluation system will be strengthened by
(i)    An annual evaluation of the project that will include: (a) contracting an external third party
and independent assessment in particular of the participatory approach, and of the impact of
autodiagn6sticos on Municipalities (including the respective COPLADEMlUN) involvement,
(b) developing recommendations and alternatives (as needed) to improve the participatory
approach; (c) analysing the effectiveness of the Governuments response to the communities
strategic decisions; and (d) developing general recommendations and alternatives.
(ii)    De.sde lo Local monitoring and evaluation system will include representative statistical
samples with the identification of beneficiary communities as indigenous or not indigenous. It
would examine examples of the project's outcomes (field measurements of actual benefits)
for indigenous people  This will be included in the previously mentioned evaluation
framework.
Schedule of Activities and Budget  Table I provides details as to the substance, timing and costs of
activities associated with completion the autodiagn6stico and the Municipal Development Plan exercise It
is expected that, once initiated, the process would require a period of nine to twelve months Activities
wouid ue efigIULe Lfor I1.1IILI5ME WUIU.CI r..ponenI;TwL I WV VA  proeIUJJL \WILI IE eAI.UCeptIII VI UIo
Participatory Assessment, which would be financed through Component Three of the project).



Page 69
Timeline and Budget of Activities: 1PEP-
Objective                                     Activities                                 Responsible      Completion        Budget
Deadline
Technical Guide   for  *  TOR for development of diagnostic kit;                            CEDEMUN           CY2003. Qtr 2      USS 100,00(
Autodiagnd.uico        *  Contract specialists;
*   Deveiopment materials.     _                 _       _ _      _
Training of STU  and  *   TOR for training modijle;                                         CEDEMUN,          CY 2003, Qtr 3     USS 160,000
CEDEMIJNI staff       *   Select SIU and CEDE.MUN staff;                                   STUs
*   Contract training specialist,
*   Conduct workshop
*   Trainmg Materials                                                _             _                   _     _       _
Training          of *    TOR for training module;                                          STU,              CY 2003, Qtr 4     USS 260,000
Municipalites         *   Developiment calendar of training activities;                     Municipalities
authorities      and   *  Invite COPLADEMUNs Municipalities authorities;                    authorities
COPLADEIIUN           *   Conduct workshops                                                 COPLADEM?UNs
*   Tratning Materials                                               _          _.
Conduct               *   Municipalities authorities with COPLADEMUNs consult their localities;  STU,         CY 2004, Qtr 2     USS 760,00(0
Au:odiagndsicos and   *   Apply Desde lo Local"s diagnostic tools;                          Municipalities
develop    Municipal  *   Prepare ulodiagn6sficos                                           authorities
Developmeit Plans     *   Municipalities authorities with CCIPLADEMUNls use data gathered to  COPLADEMTUNs
program activities ancd actions to address commiunities' basic needs and
appropriP te means for their achievement _                                                         _ _ _       __
Execution of Municipal  *  Information Campaign                                             STU,              Ongoing         [l3$1,000,000
Development Plans     *   Subprject proposals prepared and prioritized;                     Municipalities
*   Implementation of subprojects;                                    authorities
____ ___ ___  ___  ___   ___   ___pr_      __jects;_        __   COPLADEM   LNCUN_                          __
Monitoring and        *   Baseline Study                                                     STU,              Ongoing          US$ 1,500,000
Evaluation            *   Mid-term Review (Social Participation Assessment)                 CEDEMUN,
*   Analysis of statistically representative samples of investment allocation  Municipalities
among indigenous and non indigenous communities.                  authorities
________      Final EValuation                                                  COPLADEMUNSS3,780,000



Page 70
Annex 13
Municipal Development in Rural Areas Project
Environmental Analysis
Introduction
In the federal government system, municipalities are the base for the political, legal and administrative
structure of the state The municipality is the layer of the government that works directly with citizens.
Municipal governments are responsible for providmg attention to the basic necessities and requirements of
these citizens Federal government initiatives that have local significance require the intervention of the
municipalities in managing the services and resources demanded-
As such, environrment conservation and rational use of natural resources demands the intervention of
municipalities, not only in direct actions concerning the environment but also in all activities at the
municipal level where the environment is considered  Municipalities play an important role in
mainsarnmino .nvsrnnm.etnal issues on -ay actions tken by th.e goverment And on ;ntegrn fl c;zens'
participation.
The Municipal Development in Rural Areas Project (DRD 111) would benefit from lessons leamed on
previous projects, DRD I and 11. The project comprises rural municipalities in participating states which
were sCleieUL On u'ie buIs ui smuio-demnographic indicators- sucn as: rurai popuiation ieveis, percentage of
indigenous languages speakers, access to basic infrastructure and others. All of the planned subprojects are
for small basic social infrastructure and given their small-scale, would have no significant environmental
impacts, provided adequate measures are in place for detection and monitoring Under the DRD 11, which
operated under the same parameters, the average cost of the subproject was less than US$15,000
During project preparation, there was an assessment of environmental impacts of subprojects executed
under the previous project (i.e., DRD 11) The objective of this assessment was to review and evaluate the
framework and identify the required capacity to guarantee the prevention and mitigation of possible
environmental impacts of subprojects to be financed under the proposed project
The current report is arranged in the following five sections: Introduction, Federal, State and Municipal
legislation on environmental impacts; local norms and regulation; Project's environmental assessment; and
the environment action plan
Federal, State and Municipal legislation on environmental impacts
In Mexico, there is a legal framework that guides the design, decision, and implementation of subprojects
of the same category as the ones to be implemented under the proposed project. The legal framework is
sfl LILhAA 0U*d a f. fl46e.st   *'gs   f l legilat lo U * 1-  1  AL-. . I-A  1-   --  A _I- IA _Ap   - 1_A IAiA_
regulations on resource use under the Ramo 33 program. All of these norms are public and well-known and
the applicable norms are part of the Operational Manual of the proposed project.
The General Ecological Equilibrium and Environment Conservation law (Ley General del Equilibrio
Ecoi6gico y ia Proreccz6n al Ambienie, LEGEEPA) establishes the role of federai, state and municipai
entities on environmental matters. In conformity with the law, the three government layers are responsible
for formulating, carrying out and evaluating environmental policies within their jurisdiction  The
LEGEEPA empowers the states and municipalities to ensure, within their jurisdictions, the compliance of
the law.
6 Published in the Official Federal Letter on January 28, 1988 and amended through a decree published in
in the Official Federal Letter on December 13, 1996, January 7, 2000 and December 31, 2001, articles 5, 7
and 8



Page 71
The law requires the federal government to sign agreements of understanding with the state and
municipalities These agreements hand over various responsibilities under the jurisdiction of the federal
government Additionally, the LEGEEPA defines the environmental policies and the instruments for their
application. T ne uiiowing pnrnciples ar pan of the envirunmental pulicies:
*   The ecosystems are national patrimony and the country's life and productive possibilities depend
on their equilibrium;
*   The civil authorities and citizens are responsible for the protection and equilibrium of ecosystems;
*   Those carrying out activities that affect or may affect the environment should take the needed
precaution to prevent, minimize or repair any environrmental damage and be responsible for any
PernnAmiC eont ncqnCiatpd with !,i
*   There is a need for coordination among all entities involved, including all levels of government
administration and society to guarantee the efficiency of environmental actions;
*   All citizens have a right to a weii-maintained envirornent to ensure a healthy well-being. The
authorities should take any necessary action, in the context of this or any other law, to guarntee
that this nght is not violated; and
*   It is necessary to eradicate poverty in order to have sustainable development.
In terms of environLmental evaluation of projects, works and activities, LEGEEPA empowers the federal
authorities to evaluate and authorize projects related to hydrology; communication infrastructure;
development of gas, oil and carbon pipelines; petroleum, metal, paper, sugar cement and electric industries;
use of forestry resources and endangered species. etc.
According to LGEEPA, environmental assessment of activities and works not included under the above
mentioned categories, could be evaluated by the states, with the participation of the participating
municipalities Such evaluations should be carried out once the characteristics, region, dimensions, are
considered to have si..iflcant enviro- nentl ;mpact s and  e wit.in the env-;e.n,,., sttatte legaslohu
LEGEEPA and the states environmental regulations, with some exceptions, restnct municipalities from
performing environment evaluations.
LGEEPA stipulates the procedures to follow under each project category and on the expected environment
impacts. A complete study, an environmentai impact manifestaiion, (La ManWestacion ae impacro
Ambiental -MIA) is required only for those projects that fall under the federal jurisdiction and have (or
could have) adverse environment impacts. A preventive report is required for activities related to: urban
development plan, ecological zoning, development plans, activities in industrial areas, or for activities for
which environmental standards have been set. In order for municipalities to carry out small infrastructure
works, they need to comply with environmental dispositions through the Planning and Development
committees (Comnirs de Planeacifn pora el Desarrollo, COPLADES) COPLADES is the agency that
manages authorization of state institutions, approval and release of federal and state resources assigned for
the benefit of rural communities
Lo" -cI `rmEs lad AE% guultmuus
The local norns and regulations establish the methods and procedures that subprojects need to follow in
order to comply with existing environmental policies. The proposed subprojects are regulated by two
additional norms, besides LEGEEPA, at the municipal level. These are:
(i) The Fiscal Coordination Law (Ley de Coordinacidn Fscal). It sets the basic policies
regulating infrastructure works financed under the Ramo 33 program. It states that all works must
be congruent with environmental conservation and sustainable development



Page 72
(ii) State specific operational rules for Ramo 33, issued annually, which compile the requirements
of the laws and the necessary control and monitoring. These rules are part of the proposed
project's Operational Manual.
Regarding environmental protection, the Operational Manual provides procedures for the classification of
subprojects, and dictates the type of technical approval required.
*   Every subproject prepares a simplified Technical Record (expedwen:e tecnico).
*   The Technical Record provides details about the subproject and states the subproject's
classification according to eligible categones, e.g., potable water is identfied under the water
systems, well digging and equipment program.
* The municipalities submit the Technical Record to COPLADES. COPLADES then reviews the
document, establishung the permits and validations required for the implementation of the
subproject, e.g., environmental analysis and required documentations.
_ C'flfl  AnDCl  A.....  *L  ....L... . A.T .'_  ', Lt.I  D..~   .A A_ _..____.…L___  __t_ 
-  wurL^nvQ aciluua UEC auuLIuj t a IVL.IUIILC s.uiu LU vuii iiuuauvc agtcici  at ulc state
level, as required. All subprojects requiring environmental analysis are sent to the respective
state's environmental and ecological institutions.
*   The reviewmg agencies and institutions carry out all necessary studies and give a pronouncement.
Each agency has its own norms and technical expertise. The implementation of the subproject is
carried out once all permnits and validations are obtained.
*   The implementation phase includes monitoring and quality control evaluahons.
* A subproject committee monitors compliance of all approved designs.
*   Once the subproject is completed, the community officially receives possession of the work.
Age..cies ua       a U s U d i;ia:a leve: pIt4I I in all  phase; UR VaCIAoIULI UoIU an UUIVUI.IUIL UL
subprojects, e.g. the national and state water commission (Comrsion Macional de Agua), SEMARNAT,
State and Federal Electric Institutions, among others. However, this interaction is limited to a technical
review of the process and not the actual supervision of the subproject, unless there is a significant
environmental impact envisioned during implementation.
The state Inspector General is responsible for carrying out the supervision and physical inspection of all
works to ensure that environmnental policies are met To cany out these inspections, the office of the
Inspector General has personnel including, engineers, construction and enviroumental specialists and
lawyer who have the expertise necessary to carry out supervision and monitoring of works.
Evaluation of the Proposed Project
The following conclusions were obtained during field evaluations; review of the legal firmework, and in
the discussions with the federal level and state authorities in Guanaiuato. Puebla, Veracuz and Zacatecas:
*   Ramo 33 Program establishes that infiastructure works, that fall within the program "must be
congruent with environmental conservation and sustainable developmenet.
I. htinuu Jm 33rAv..a)d UJLU uc auuLpFujtta UIh jupruopx  pjnJ  wuuiu IIEUA C, g.ver. ulcu sa n-al'-e
and cost, do not imply a significant environment impact in their execution.
*   Although, the general characteristics of the Ramo 33 Program are such that subprojects imply no
significant environmental impact, there are nonetheless exceptions of subprojects under Ramo 33 that



Page 73
may present environmental risks because of their category, size or area, and can bring on a risk to the
areas where they are taking place.
The ePn.nrnfmlntl leanl finmework in the viqiteA states; in veneral terms hsq sn adenmiate
interpretation and implementation of the General Ecological Equilibrium and Environment
Conservation law.
*   The visited states have clear and precise definitions on the environmental duties and responsibilities
matie municipalities 1l11 in LCims of 0pliiriing, prapruLion and cxcAution UL puauic wurk..
*   The norns and regulations on managing and operating Ramo 33 subprojects defined by every state
include an environment component as a technical processing requirement which ensures the
compliance with the federal and state legal framework of the subproject are in accordance to its type.
*   The states' ecology institution is the entity responsible for ensuring environmental compliance of
Ramo 33 operations, and in some instances the Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources
(SEMARNAT) representing the federal governnent, may take part in the process. The states'
environment agency. has the facilitv of reviewing and monitoring compliance of the recommendations
and of the requirements estabiished by the state's ecological institutions.
*   Prsently, the subprojects are approved based on the technical record (expendiente tecnico), which
establishes in detail the normns and regulations that need to be applied to each one of the components of
w,he sub..i--je.  e [eag- p-anmters n Lhe techn.inaI recod, in, *nernl aree fn.mu..lated and developed
by specialized areas on different levels of the government responsible for overseeing the sector related
to the planned work. The subprojects also contain the constructive points of view given by the
supplien and producers of goods and materials.
*   The relatively small size and cost of subprojects: the large volume of subprojects executed per
year; the type and programmatic profile of subprojects, the reduce risk these subprojects have on
the environment; and the limited technical capacity available in the entities responsible for
ensuring compliance of envirornmental norms and regulations; have led, in practical terms, to
subprojects being briefly reviewed and almost automatically approved without an in-depth
review in the erens wher the wnrirc wiEl tnln. p!iee tn eunlminte it,5 real enuu-rnmsntnl conditions.
Rather, the approval is based on genenc conditions as per the information provided in the
technical record, which focuses on the technical side and with limited environmental references.
The technical records of the validated works by the regulating entities are approved accordingly;
although, this approval is essentially based on the type of work, without taking into account any
IyIVU  ..vUWAUaiLiMAi uaizLpat.w  uIof wUea i]& whiIchI ul.e 3UUViUJUcL *b misiu place, !um1s lb
accompanied by a simplified environmental checklist). Only those subprojects which are
obviously expected to have a major environmental impact require a full environmental
assessment and field supervision visit.
*   The state governments have exnrersed cnneerns and interest for the need of ennrhit.v building tO
mainstream environmental impacts in public works. However, they haven't found a practical
implementation scheme for decentralizing part of the responsibilities for environmental impact
evaluations to the municipalities.
•   Currently, there is a positive transition towards mainstreaming environmental evaluation in
public works, in which the most important aspect is the full support and commitment of the State
Governors towards Environment Conservation. However, the implementation strategies to
mainstream the environment are still at an initial stage and more time is required before
becoming fully institutionalized.
-ne following recommendations for the new operation are based on the lessons leanied during the
implementation of the previous project, DRD 11.
a) All implemented subprojects complied with legal regulations;



Page 74
b) There is a need to strengthen the capacity at the local and municipal level, to be able to recognize
and address environmental aspects related to the subproject;
c) The subprojec: field ^aI aaJJL  CAr0-1d OU cart 'me V nprov. *  by develUopUJIg techuniial guide'nle11E- .L
address environmental risks (e.g., subproject type and size; location, environmental conditions,
mitigation measures);
d) Developing the capacity of communities to address environmental themes in the operation and
maintenance of subprojects will help to improve their sustainabliity and mitigate the environment
risks;
Based on the above recommendations, the following aspects were included in the design of the new
project:
•   Environmental Education: have workshops, training courses and forums intended for the
community and municipal authorities;
•   Training. Municipal authonties responsible for decision making, planning, and supervision of
public works.  Also, build the technical capacity of community residents in order to provide
correct operation and monitonrng of public works linked to resources management (e.g.,
treatment of waste water, solid waste management)
*   Communication and dissemination:  Dissemination of norms and regulations to municipal
authorities and community residents through all available media.
*   Participation: Promote the participation and individual and collective contribution at all levels--
municipal authorities, civil society, NGOs, commerce, private sectors, etc;
* Mainstream environrmental evaluations as a fundamental instrument in public investments,
ecnpcia!y for nrnraTn  undtier Pnamn ?3
*   Provide capacity building training and technical assistance to municipal representatives with
regard to environmental actions, through an adequate coordination among institutions working in
the sector.
*   Provide capacity buiiding training and tecinicai assistance to community represenmaives
involved with municipal planning and those participating on environmental monitoring as a way
to integrate an environmental perspective in their activities,
*   Registration and dissemination of successful municipal or comnmunities expenences, on
com,pl..n-cea nvr.nno       .   -And rn +ionn:n.he..Ia.nta.nnaof aobr.nAarDRamo
33 Program
•   Promote within the states the exchange of environmental experiences among municipalities, as to
share and expand on the successful experiences.
*   Carry out exchanges of expenences among staes with regard to environment compliance ot
works under the Ramo 33 program, as to enrich the norms and regulations, institutional aspects
and operational implementation of the Ramo 33 prograrn
*   Develop a strategy to ensure that environmental norms and regulations are taken into account at
UesigrI, IInplenientiaUonI, nIU execu.ionUI piuases oft Ule suUpruJCeL. A1  I closer supeAVio  ofIUIIV
monitoring regulations during the implementation and execution phases of the subprojects.
Environment Action Plan
Environment lmpact of Subprojects and Mitzgation Measures
The environmental implications of the small subprojects to be implemented under Component I of the
proposed project (e.g., construction of schools, health centers) are very limited, if preventive mitigation



Page 75
actions and adequate monitoring are put in place The major environmentai concerns are with subprojects
dealing with potable water, sewer and solid waste.
The project has a typology of subprojects to be financed, a negative list of ineligible subprojects has also
been included in the Operational Manual of the project. The Operational Manual, which was Ilso used
during the previous project, specifies the operational procedures to address environmental concerns.
During project preparation, discussion have led to updating the Operational Manual so as to improve its
detailing of environmental procedures, e.g., engineering designs, environmental checklist, more in-depth
environmental evaluations, and identification of high-risk or negative subprojects on environment aspects.
Preliminary environmental analysis (Screening)
Usually, the subprojects to be implemented under the project do not imply negative environmental impacts.
However, the design and the subprojects' sites will be carefully analyzed to detect any possible
anv.-,--t ;-mn-.a te Tiha anl e  ws11.. I- i.avA  In a c;fla      U5i. .;hs ; ;incluAeA ;n n10e
Tsa J vLisa. Lf  w.bE a.,JO*flL.J.psv      lS.lv-          **,* LAOS-v,...i ......-* ..1
Operational Manual
The manual includes a negative list of subproject which are ineligible for financing because of adverse
environmental impacts. Specifically, subprojects related to the following activities have been excluded:
i.     Construction, reinforcement and rehabilitation of dams;
ii.    Activities affecting areas designated by the federal, state or municipal government as protected
areas, except those to address mitigation of damage caused by natural disasters;
iii.   Lands that disembark at the sea or other water bodies (e.g, drainage of tropical lands, drainage of
bodies of water to acquire land);
iv.    Clearing of land and leveling (affecting critical natural habitats and natural areas with high volume
of native anunal and vegetations species), except cleaning of debris due to natural disasters,
v.     The management and disposal of dangerous materials, including the production, transportation and
use of pesticides and other toxic materials (except small quantities of solvents, degreaser
mntpnrlsc naint fimioec sisimally nreedeu nn thk htmn of wnrvk&h
*J r-  ,- - J
vi.     Rerouting of nvers (realignment, enlargement, or deepening of existing canals or excavation of
new ones);
Vii.  Afi.LIYIUiV iraiue tu uiuusmnari pEants tiarge-scaic) anu muusu-iri cemers;
viii.  Construction of new roads, realignment of roads, or major road repairs ("major' means change in
the type of road e.g., seasonal to all types of climate or from secondary road to a primary road;
addition of new lanes, re-pavement etc.);
ix.    Activities related to forestry production;
x.      Development of new or expansion of existing ports;
xi.    Aquaculture and mariculture activities,
xii.   Activities that may have an impact on international waters;
xii:.   AM--vt;cs r!inte tn ao-.,ti-ral p-A-.nt;-
xiv    Activities related to the development of watershed;



Page 76
xv     Development of new or expansion of existing thermoelectric or hydroelectric buildings; and
xvi    Subprojects requiring resettlement of communities.
Emnaronmental considerations to be included in Engineering Designs
The institutional development component -- component 2 under the proposed project - stimulates
environmental awareness of the COPLADEMUNs (Municipal authorities, community representatives) and
builds technical capacity for the identification and mitigation of environmental impacts! not only in
subprojects financed by the proposed project, but also all other municipal public works. During project
preparation, CEDEMUN took the initiative of preparing technical guidelines, according to the type of
subproject. For use by municipalities; these guidelines include recommendations to be followed when
designing subprojects to avoid possible environmental impacts (see table A). As per the guidelines, the
subprniort APc.cnc will inrnrnnrtoe snvirnnmpntil cnperifiratininc th2t the. rnntnrtnr n"frc tn fnilnuw Ai..rino
construction to minimize impacts and nuisance to the community. The design and implementation of the
Environmental capacity building program will be reviewed every semester, including physical reviews of at
least 5% of implemented subprojects.
Envirunmental implermentation Aci.o' Plan
The following instruments have been established, under the proposed project, to further reduce any possible
adverse environmental impacts of subprojects:
.MunLpj!cyaI FmvtronmPntai Cnnarinv Rulwirnc
As mentioned m the previous section, component 2 will provide training activities on environmental
awareness for COPLADEMUNs and prevention of adverse environmental impacts The design and execution
of the environment-training program will be monitored throughout project implementation. As part of the
prougra, U''erC will bUe publicationI of rIochur-es a.dU g,.iide5'iries highMiJIhI i Vg fUVWILe advar ages on pIlEir. WIU
standard environmental norms and regulations.
State Supervnsion on Environment Compliance
Some tvnes of subproiects (e.e.. health centers. schools. electrification) must be validated and approved by
the states entities responsible for ensuring legal compliance, including the environment. All processing
requirements are included in the project's Operational Manual. Compliance on every requirement is
supervised at the following four levels: I) construction site through the works committee, 2) municipal
comptroller; 3) State level through COPLADES; and 4) Federal govermnent through the established laws.
Also, the project will stimulate the exchange of experiences and envirorunmental compliance anong the
participating states and the incorporation of best practices into the Operational Manual and regulations of
the Ramo 33 program.
Specific preventive measurements
As part of the technical records, all eligible subprojects must include an enviromnmental datasheet. The
datasheet must include, in the case of probable adverse environmental impacts, mitigation measures and a
confirmation from the municipality on their compliance after subproject is completed.
In summary, for the implementation of the Action Plan, the Project's Operational Manual will mclude: (i)
the federal and states' environmental norms and regulations; (ii) a detailed list of eligible subprojects; (iii) a
detailed list of ineligible subprojects, (iv) a sample environmental datasheet; (v) a list of the type of
subprojects requiring detailed environmental analysis; and (vi) a list of environmental processing and
permits requirements under each type of subproject.  The monitoring and evaluation component
(component three), includes monitoring of this action plan and any necessary preventive features



Page 77
Table A. Mitigation Measures
Possible Impact             J                    MitigatIon
.Po table water s=bRrojects               I 
IoAb;lp water in, wp r ejier,  Pnlnitntinn I flecinc rn-rvcnnndino tn eurrent cnnasity iiqpj stntlq nf
due to the implementation of many small    aquifers e.g., limit the number of wells.
subprojects.                               Avoid construction within problematic aquifers;
excluded subprojects near solid waste, industrial and
A  _!_ _ ______1_ ____________________ ]  -agricultural production areas.
Remiuting of simall WatelI WaY UUe to      DUIIU LV    phbt, IJ   OntUIL :IIUY  L WtUI'. ThAW.
rehabilitation works
Water contamination due to rusted pipes, open  Facilitate inspection access of water pipelines.
channels, or direct exposure of water to   Protection of water pipelines with sand and use of
contaminants.                              plastic connecting systems. Avoid building ducts
through waterways and mangroves; near trees, and
buildings.
Rusting of water containers                Ensure routine cleaning, repair and maintenance of
- ________________________________________   containers
Sewer Work
High volume of sewage having effects on the  Appropriate tube size, forbid disposmg of flammables in
population                                 sewer system; use corrosive resistant materials. Use of
natural drainage systems to channel rain waters.
Drainage at inappropriate areas that would lead  Dispose waste waters in areas composed of non-
in ormeenotntn sand mrirentrmtinn of tmX!C  nprmpeahl rnil=
gases. Filtration of waste waters in aquifers.
Direct drainage in high permeable areas or
rivem
Generation of odors, mosquitoes and other  Use of ventilation systems
Contamination and proliferation of pathogens.  Monitoring of purification systems Avoided
construction of pit latrines in areas close to potable
water supplies.
Solid Waste
Aquifer and water streams contamination    Knowledge on the aquifer sites, selection of waste
disposal sites based on soil classification e.g.. non-
perrneable; topography (appropriate distance from rivers
and waterways); meteorological conditions (wind blow);
and appropriate distance from biodiversity areas and at
____________________________  |least 3 km   fiom  urban  settlements.
Production of methane gas and other gases  Appropriate installation of gas ventilation systems
Production of odors and insects, illness, etc.  Design green areas around the landfills e.g., plant trees.
Study possible systems complementing recycling
_.   .VqteMq
Bxindlg of fHealth Centers and schools
The main environmental impact is during    Construction permits stipulating cleanliness and already
construction (destruction of green areas, lack of  mentioned prventive measurements on potable water
cleanliness once construction is completed),  and sewage.
-`Lfle wAtIC uJL acw&%Ve aytemiii.
Reduction of green areas, parks and other  fEx-ante analysis on sites, compensating measurements.
recreational  areas.                        _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Demolition of culturally and architectural  Ex-ante sites analysis
valuable buildings. 
Roads rehabilitatlon In rural areas
The miain impact is in not fillng potholes in  Contract stipulation avoiding impacts.
high risk areas and damage to native fauna.                  _                       _   _









IMAGING
Report No.:        23933   ME
Type:     PAO



