Report No. PID10210
Project Name             Mexico-Municipal Development in Rural (@)
Areas
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Decentralization;Institutional Development;
Other Environment
Project ID               MXPE60686
Borrower(s)              UNITED STATES OF MEXICO
Implementing Agency
Address CEDEMUN (NATIONAL CENTER FOR
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT) CEDEMUN
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        April 10, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      April 17, 2002
Bank Approval Date       July 9, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Bank and the Government of Mexico have collaborated on developing
decentralized approaches to reducing rural poverty in Mexico since the
early 1990s. Beginning in 1991, the Decentralization and Regional
Development Program (DRD) tested and subsequently mainstreamed mechanisms
which have strengthened the authority and capacity of state and local
governments to manage public finance, establish investment priorities and
provide basic small-scale social and productive infrastructure. Following
the success of the first project, DRD I (loan 3310-ME), the Government
requested a follow-on operation to further accelerate the decentralization
process, improve the targeting and quality of state and municipal
investment programs, and strengthen state-level institutions involved in
rural development and rural poverty alleviation. The second project -DRD
II (loan 3790-ME)- began implementation in 1995, continuing through 2000.
The financing of decentralized development in Mexico has also evolved over
the past decade. From 1990 through 1997, Federal budget support for
investments in small-scale municipal infrastructure was executed by a
Federal agency -the present SEDESOL- under the umbrella of the poverty
alleviation strategy. In 1998, a decentralization reform made these funds
available directly to municipalities. While these changes were designed
to better link local-level investment demands with the necessary finance,
they required a level of administrative and managerial expertise which
tested the capacity of municipal governments. To address this, a small
percentage of this funding was made available for municipal institutional
development. Under DRD II, some US$1.7 billion were channeled through
municipal development councils across eight states. These resources were
applied under a community-driven development (CDD) methodology, with local
communities reaching decisions about their investment priorities and
taking part in the implementation of these investments with the support of
Municipal Planning and Development Councils (COPLADEMUN). From 1998
through June 2000, over 107,000 subprojects were implemented at an average
cost of US$15,000.The proposed Municipal Development in Rural Areas
project (DRD III), builds on the successful experiences of the previous



projects. The project will specifically target rural municipalities in
the participating states, as identified by their level of rural
population, current access to basic infrastructure and other
socio-demographic indicators (see Annex 3 for more details).     In line
with lessons learned from the previous projects, DRD III will work to
consolidate the participatory processes already in place for identifying
and executing local-level investments in rural infrastructure,
strengthening administrative, technical and managerial capacity of
municipal governments in pursuit of these investments, and working with
Federal and State levels of government to construct a framework for
accelerating municipal development.
2. Objectives
The proposed project aims to reduce the incidence of rural poverty in
rural areas of participating states by (i) supporting investments in basic
small-scale social and productive infrastructure, utilizing a proven
effective community-driven development (CDD) approach, (ii) strengthening
municipal administrative and technical capacity to increase the efficiency
of municipal investments, and (iii) deepening the ongoing decentralization
from Federal to the State and Municipal levels.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value added of Bank support in this Project is three pronged: (i) to
deepen the CDD approach to stimulate municipal development, based on a
blend of recent Latin American and Mexican experiences; (ii) to capitalize
on the field experience accumulated through the DRD I and II Projects
since the beginning of the 90's with respect to basic infrastructure
development at the municipal level; and (iii) to play a decisive role
towards the coordination of municipal institutional development
programs.Besides its knowledge of relevant experiences, the Bank is
already involved in a direct dialogue with stakeholders that could
facilitate coordination with other Bank- financed programs. In particular,
important synergies could be pursued with the on-going Rural Development
in Marginal Areas Project, where the performance of the Regional Councils
also depend on the active and knowledgeable participation of
municipalities and their capacity to contribute to regional development
with own resources, and with the Urban Upgrading Project (in preparation),
where Municipal Development is a common field of interest.
4. Description
The total project cost is US$642.875 million, of which the Bank will
finance US$54.35400.0 million. Component One (Municipal Subprojects,
US$545.5 million or 85 percent of total project cost) would provide
matching grants to rural municipalities to support some 35,000
demand-driven subproject investments in small-scale social and productive
infrastructure. Types of investments would include, inter alia: water
supply and sanitation, construction of schools, health centers and
community development facilities, waste disposal, rural electrification
and rural road improvement. Under this component, rural communities would
determine their investment priorities and, along with other communities in
their respective municipalities and following a given annual budget
envelope, take part in COPLADEMUNs to select a set of investments for
execution. These Councils would then carry out these subprojects, to which
local communities would also contribute (in cash or in-kind) a minimum of
10 percent toward total subproject cost. Subprojects would be subject to
-2 -



a cost ceiling of US$50,000 in most cases. Following completion of the
subproject, communities would be responsible for operation and
maintenance. Component Two (Municipal development and support for
decentralization, US$57.0 million or 9 percent of total project cost)
would offer technical assistance to strengthen the process of
decentralization and build a framework to enhance municipal development.
The component would develop a coordinated approach among the Federal,
State and Municipal governments to foster better managerial practices in
dealing with small-scale infrastructure investment and delivery of
services, and better management of municipal human resources. Among the
activities under this component are: (i) diagnostic studies of existing
Federal, State and Municipal programs and their institutional capacities,
(ii) technical assistance to develop new programs or to improve existing
ones, (iii) development of monitoring capacities, (iv) establishment of
coordination agreements between Federal, State and Municipal entities, (v)
pilot studies before implementation of programs or agreements, (vi)
technical assistance to prepare amendments to laws and regulations
referring to municipal issues, (vii) training of key personnel of the
Municipalities, (viii) social communication, training and social
participation promotion to widely disseminate the objectives and
activities under the project; and (ix) surveys about municipal
issues.Component Three (Project supervision, monitoring and evaluation,
US$40.3 million or 6 percent of total project cost) would finance
incremental costs (excluding salaries) of project administration and
coordination including supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation.
Given the decentralized nature of the project, its success will depend on
frequent and intense supervision.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $242.80
IBRD $400.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $642.80
6. Implementation
Implementation period: Four yearsExecuting Entities:Community
Associations are citizen groups with a common interest from the same
community which organize to identify their local investment priorities for
basic social and productive infrastructure. Having identified these
priorities, each community association voices these priorities, as
subproject proposals, in the COPLADEMUNs, where municipal-level decisions
on investments are made.    COPLADEMUNs are representative bodies comprised
of primarily delegates from each respective community association within
the given municipality. Approximately 70 percent of those participating
are representatives of potential project beneficiaries. The remainder (30
percent) are key municipal-level government officials, selected public
sector agencies and other representatives of civil society organizations.
Operating under an annual budget envelope of available funding, the
COPLADEMUN prioritizes (via consensus and a participatory process) those
subprojects to be financed in the given year. State Technical Unit (STU)
in each of the participating states, will coordinate with the targeted
municipalities to provide them with technical support and supervision to
more effectively carry out their role in local-level development
activities.  Specifically, the STU will     assist municipalities in
- 3 -



assessing the technical viability of subprojects selected for
implementation. Once subprojects are approved, the STU authorizes the
liberation of funds by COPLADEMUN for subproject implementation. The
National Project Coordination Unit (NCPU), will coordinate overall project
activities in the participating states.    This unit will be the existing
National Center for Municipal Development (CEDEMUN), a decentralized unit
within the Federal Secretaria de Gobernaci6n,.Subproject Cycle: n
Community Associations determine their local investment priorities for
social and productive infrastructure and voice these priorities to their
respective COPLADEMUN;n Working under an annual budget envelope,
COPLADEMUN, through a participatory process involving active
representation from all municipal community associations, prioritizes
subproject investments and establishes an annual subproject investment
plan;n The STU conducts a technical assessment of the proposed subprojects
and authorizes the liberation of funds by the COPLADEMUN for subproject
implementation;n COPLADEMUN then implements the annual subproject
investment plan, to which community associations contribute (in cash or
in-kind);ft Following completion of the subproject investments, Community
Associations take ownership of the subprojects and are responsible for
their operation and maintenance.Project Oversight: CEDEMUN will undertake
project oversight and overall coordination of project activities in the
participating states. CEDEMUN will approve the Annual Operating Plans for
the Project and supervise the application of project resources to the
participating states. Project Coordination: The State Company for Regional
Action (CAR)PRODERALSTUs in the participating states will be charged with
the following specific duties: (a) review community subproject proposals
for compliance with project guidelines and eligibility criteria in the
project Operational Manual; (b) supervise the COPLADEMUNs to ensure they
are adequately managing quality of subproject implementation and providing
sufficient training support to communities; (c) implement introductory
training and technical assistance programs for all COPLADEMUNs (including
training on subproject implementation, contracting options, O&M and
financial management); (f) monitor performance through the Management
Information System (MIS) and periodically report progress to CEDEMUN; (g)
prepare annual implementation and physical performance reviews; and (h)
submit required subproject documentation to CEDEMUN for preparation of
SOEs to be submitted to the Bank. Finally, the STUs will conduct
statewide information campaigns to continuously disseminate information
about the project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary
communities, thereby increasing awareness, transparency and participation
in the program. Project operational procedures: The proposed project
would be implemented according to detailed procedures defined in its
Operational Manual. This Manual draws on content used under the previous
project (DRD II), but has been improved and updated, based on lessons
learned from its implementation experience. The Operational Manual
consolidates the objectives, mechanisms and procedures under the project
for ready reference by the participating states. A user-friendly manual
will also be made available to the COPLADEMUNs for their use in training
communities about the project. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Analysis of project implementation will depend on a database drawn from
the project Management Information System (MIS). The MIS used under the
previous DRD II is being updated to incorporate international
best-practices for use in the proposed project. The MIS consists of three
components: (a) a subproject information module, which contains pertinent
physical and financial information for each subproject executed by the
-4 -



COPLADEMUNs; (b) a financial management module, maintained by CEDEMUN,
from which Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) are generated, using data
provided by the participating states; and (c) a project management module,
from which all project reports are generated. The project would also
undertake evaluation studies to assess the impact from the subproject
investments and the activities surrounding institutional development at
the Federal, State and Municipal level. These evaluations would also
provide feedback to improve future project operations. These evaluations
would entail: (i) annual physical performance reviews to assess the
quality and sustainability of common types of financed subprojects,
including reviews of municipal-based procurement; (ii) an
evaluation/implementation review, carried out at mid-term, to include
beneficiary consultations to evaluate project performance and impact as
perceived by its beneficiaries; and (iii) a rigorous and comprehensive
impact evaluation. Accounting, financial reporting and auditing
arrangements: The financial management systemsof CAR PRODERALto be used by
CEDEMUN and the participating states were reviewed by a Bank Financial
Management Specialist during project preparation for compliance with OP/BP
10.02. Based on this review, the project was certified as a "B". Under
the proposed project, CEDEMUN will implement an action plan within the
first six months of project implementation (agreed with the Bank). The
annual financial audit of the project accounts will also include a
separate opinion on the eligibility of expenditures disbursed on the basis
of SOEs. According to arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Mexico,
the annual financial audit of the project accounts for the period January
1 to December 31 of the year will be carried out by an Independent
Auditor,, which is acceptable to the Bank. The audit report will be
submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 in the year following the
yearthat for which the project accounts are audited. The Auditor's TOR
will include the issuance of a management letter on internal controls six
months after effectiveness.
7. Sustainability
Institutional sustainability: The sustainability of investments in human
and organizational capital depends on the success of the efforts to
professionalize services in municipal governments. These efforts will be
supported by the project through a focus of the institutional development
component on improving different managerial practices, including human
resources management policies for recruiting, training and retaining
personnel. The possibility to extend the period of the municipal
administration beyond the present mandate of three years (still under
informal discussion) may have a very positive effect on the sustainability
of these investments.Physical sustainability: the sustainability of the
infrastructure investments has been an issue of concern in past projects.
Supervision reports and evaluations by consultants showed poor preventive
maintenance and repair practices, causing a shortening of the useful life
of facilities. The situation has changed for the better in a limited way
when all decision making was transferred to local and community
consideration. This transfer of responsibilities should improve the
concern for maintenance, repair and full use of the facilities vis-a-vis
investments in construction of new works. As practical support to better
maintenance, the project proposes both (i) to include rehabilitation and
major repairs of existing facilities as eligible items for the investment
programs; and (ii) include indicators of quality of service as part of M
and E.
-5-



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making and
implementation from Federal to Municipal governments increases efficiency
and leads to superior outcomes. Experience in Mexico and other countries
shows that decentralized approaches reduce bureaucracy and administrative
bottlenecks and strengthen accountability by placing resources and
decision-making in the hands of intended beneficiaries. The COPLADEMUN is
a strong example of such an approach. The proposed project will work with
these municipal-level organizations to further strengthen their capacity
to implement, monitor and supervise local investments.Participation by
intended beneficiaries in the determination and prioritization of
subproject insures that these investments meet their genuine needs,
thereby leading to an increased sense of ownership and greater
sustainability.   A participatory approach - as followed under the DRD II
- will be continued under the proposed project.The municipal role in
anti-poverty and development programs has increased steadily since 1998in
the last two years and will expand in the future, as a result of
continuing decentralization. The project proposes more intense attention
to municipal institutional development, considering it as a component,
and introduces as an innovation, the consolidation of an institutional
framework that would support municipal development. Adopting a Rural
Space approach creates the opportunity to forge necessary linkages between
more rural and urban localities within the municipal context. The
proposed project operationalizes this concept by targeting rural
municipalities based on their level of rural inhabitants. There is
increasing concern about the weak management capacity of local governments
in view of the increased transfer of responsibilities. At the same time,
programs that address institutional development of municipal governments
are uncoordinated, have low budgets, and lack a clear strategy. The
Project directly addresses this concern.Continuity in Municipal
governance, made possible through retention of technical and
administrative staff, makes for a longer-term planning horizon for
municipal investments. The project, through its second component,
supports the study of reforms to professionalize municipal servants as a
strategy to diminish erosion of human capital and reduction of the present
extremely highe turnover of key personnel.Decentralization of resources
for rural development, in the absence of careful supervision and
strengthening of the entities responsible for project planning and
implementation, may compromise the returns on community investments and
result in uneven coverage and quality of the infrastructure services being
delivered. The Project directly addresses this concern through its second
and third components and through intense strong supervission directly in
the participating states.A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system,
coordinated at the Federal level, facilitates the subproject evaluation
process, provides feedback and necessary information to improve targeting
and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning tool. Federal
coordination of this function assists in mainstreaming individual
state-level experiences. The proposed Pproject, with includes CEDEMUN as
the globalcoordinator, would forcing in this way, facilitate the
coordination of already existing M and E arrangementsthe flow of
information from municipalities to states and from there to a federal
agencyities at the level of the participating states.maintains features
(i) and (ii), while the other two are imbedded in the implementation
design.Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based
on objective criteria, can foster transparency, minimize political
- 6 -



interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project
resources reach the poorest areas. The proposed project targets resources
based on a widely-disseminated formula and opens project benefits to rural
municipalities where poverty is most acute.International best practice
with CDD indicates that Aa system of checks and balances, clearly-defined
and well-disseminated, is essential to ensure proper use of funds and
sound targeting of resources. Rules and procedures for such a system,
including guidelines for performance incentives and penalties, have
beenwill be developed reviewed and updated and are detailed in the project
Operational Manual.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed project has been assigned a "B"
environmental classification. All subprojects would be small-scale basic
infrastructure works in rural areas (in most cases, less than US$50,000)
and would not pose any adverse environmental impacts. Under the DRD II,
under which the same cost ceiling applied, the average cost of subprojects
was US$15,000.    Environmental guidelines for the DRD II were agreed with
the Government and set forth in the project Operational Manual.     These
procedures worked well for the DRD II and are by law, since 1998, of
municipal and communities domain (they are issued by law in all the state
regulations that have connection with Ramo 33).     Environmental
procedures, as well as other aspects of the Operational Manual, have now
become Federal law and are applicable not only in the participating states
but also throughout Mexico. The States of Puebla, Veracruz and Zacatecas
participated in the DRD II, collaborated in the detailing of environmental
guidelines for the project, and widely disseminated these guidelines
throughout the project area in their respective states. The remaining
state - Guanajauto - is following similar guidelines as those established
in the other three participating states. Manuals and brochures will be
published and made available to potential beneficiaries, through the
COPLADEMUNs, to raise their environmental awareness and engage them
proactively on environmental issues.    The project Operational Manual
summarizes all environmental laws and legislation applicable in all the
participating states.    It also contains an Environmental Checklist for
the purposes of screening subprojects in order to ensure that
environmental consequences and impacts are properly identified and
adequate measures are included in the subproject design. The Operational
Manual also contains a negative list, updated where necessary from that
list used under the DRD II, specifying those subprojects which would be
ineligible for financing. Additionally, for subprojects with any need for
environmental mitigation, standard project designs have been developed
(e.g., sanitation).
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Julio Cordoba
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-2249
Fax: 202-522-3132
7-



12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April
19, 2002.
-8-



