Page  1
January 22, 2001
Mr. Alonso Garía Tamés
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, Piso 9
03100 México, D.F.
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the Municipal Development
In the Rural Areas Project - Grant No. TF026537
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred 
thirty four thousand seven hundred and fifty U.S. Dollars (US$434,750) (the Grant) to 
the United Mexican States (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Margaret H. O’Donnell
Acting Country Director
Colombia - Mexico - Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Alonso García Tamés
Authorized Representative
Date:
February 14, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Municipal 
Development in the Rural Areas Project which has as its main objectives: (i) 
strengthen the capacity of selected Municipalities in the territory of the Recipient; 
(ii) enhance their governance; and (iii) improve the standards of living of their 
populations (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is 
given are as follows, and should be carried out with respect to Mexican states 
(Estados) selected by the Recipient (the Selected States):
(a)
carrying out of technical assessments to determine the capacity level of 
Selected State’s community organizations and local governments to manage 
infrastructure investments (these activities are estimated to cost US$94,200 
equivalent);
(b)
carrying out of an assessment (and related studies) of the capacity of 
Page  2
Selected State’s civil society organizations and local stakeholders to support 
participatory community involvement in infrastructure investment, planning, execution 
and control (these activities are estimated to cost US$88,000 equivalent);
(c)
carrying out of an assessment of community driven projects in the 
Selected States to determine their compliance with the existing environmental 
regulatory framework and its enforcement by the local governments (these activities 
are estimated to cost US$73,650 equivalent);
(d)
carrying out of an assessment of the capacity of the local governments in 
the Selected States to prepare and deliver inter-municipal infrastructure investment 
projects (these activities are estimated to cost US$35,300 equivalent);
(e)
design of a performance-based mechanism for efficient federal fund 
transfers to local governments of the Selected States (these activities are estimated 
to cost US$78,350 equivalent); and
(f)
design of a monitoring and information system for the Project (these 
activities are estimated to cost US$65,250 equivalent).
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than December 15, 2001, or such 
later date as the Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  
Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund 
Activities after Bank approval of financing for the Project, and the Closing Date 
shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.  After the Closing 
Date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank (in coordination with the Recipient) and shall be governed, except as otherwise 
decided by the Bank, by the provisions of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.  
The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) 
the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw 
its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Letter 
Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 1997 
(the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Page  3
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.
Services rendered by consulting firms for the Activities under paragraph 1 (a), 
(b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with 
the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines applicable to Quality- and Cost-based Selection of Consultants.
3.
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph 1 
(a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
