 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14843

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 11/20/2015

               Country: Colombia
             Project ID: P106628                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Consolidation Of             Project Costs (US$M):                       25                 33.85
                         National Public
                         Management
                         Information System
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       25                 20.42
      Sector Board:      Public Sector                Cofinancing (US$M):                        0                     0
                         Governance
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                               12/17/2009
                                                              Closing Date:            12/31/2012          12/12/2014
          Sector(s):       Central government administration (97%); Public administration- Information and
                           communications (3%)
          Theme(s):        Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (64%); Tax policy and
                           administration (30%); Macroeconomic management (3%); Administrative and civil service
                           reform (3%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Jorge Garcia-Garcia        Clay Wescott           Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the Loan Agreement (LA) defined the objectives of the operation as: “to
solidify and expand the gains achieved by the Borrower under PFM [Public financial management] II and further
improve the transparency, coverage, operation and Interoperability of the Borrower’s national public management
information systems to allow the Borrower’s decision makers to link performance measures with planning, budgeting
and other managerial actions.” (PAD, par. 21; LA, page 5, Schedule 1). This formulation of the objective will be used
as the basis for judging efficacy in this ICR Review.

Notes on acronyms used in the review
1. SIIF means Sistema Integrado de Información Financiera (Integrated Financial Management Information System)
2. SUIFP means Sistema Unificado de Inversiones y Finanzas Públicas (Unified Public Finances and Investments
System)
3. MUISCA means Modelo Único de Ingresos, Servicios y Control Automatizado (Integrated Income, Service, and
Management Model)
4. DIAN means Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales (Customs and Tax Administration)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 Component 1. Strengthening of Public Management Information Systems within the Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit (MHCP) (US$8.8 million; actual $ 13.17 million). To strengthen the technical and institutional capabilities of
MHCP, the component financed the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment required to enhance,
implement, complete and consolidate the public management information systems developed under PFM II.
Component 2. Strengthening of the Public Management Information Systems within the National Planning
Directorate (DNP) (US$1.2 million; actual $1.17 million). To strengthen the technical and institutional capabilities of
DNP, the component financed the provision of technical assistance, training and equipment aimed at increasing the
overall efficiency and efficacy of the Government’s public investments and the consolidation of advancements
achieved in the development of SUIFP under PFM II.

Component 3. Expansion of the DIAN’s Integrated Tax and Customs Administration Model (US$8 million; actual
US$14.68 million). The component financed the acquisition of goods, ICT infrastructure, operating costs and the
provision of technical assistance, activities aimed at supporting the consolidation, continuity and further development
of MUISCA. One sub-component for US$6.42 million supported the strengthening of MUISCA’s electronic and
communication information systems. Two other sub-components for US$1.58 million supported further modernization
of DIAN’s processes and human resources. The component was restructured in January 2013 in its technical
assistance part, whereby it changed from supporting “MCHP with the development, establishment, and operation of
the Center for Fiscal and Financial Studies” to “strengthen[ing] the Technical Vice-Ministry, especially the General
Directorate of Macro Economic Policy, to conduct sound policy making, through the carrying out of high impact
macro-economic and fiscal technical studies”.

Component 4. Improving the Interoperability of the Government’s Public Management Information Systems (US$5.8
million; actual US$3.18 million). The component financed several activities aimed at improving capacity in the: (a)
Government, for public management; (b) Dirección General de Crédito Público y del Tesoro Nacional for assessing
and managing economic and financial risks; and (c) Ministry of Finance (MHCP) and Planning Department (DNP) to
conduct sound policy-making; in a revision of the component the technical assistance for the Ministry changed from
supporting the establishment and operation of the Center for Fiscal and Financial Studies to support to strengthen the
Technical Vice-Ministry, especially the General Directorate of Macroeconomic Policy. The component also financed
activities aimed at strengthening Government systems for public expenditure oversight at the sub national level, and
technical assistance to the Budget Directorate to improve the capacity to evaluate public expenditure.

Component 5. Project Management (US$1.2 million; actual US$ 1.65 million). The component supported the
strengthening of the Ministry of Finance and the Planning Department and the coordination and management
activities of the project.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  The project cost at appraisal was US$25 million, all financed by IBRD. At closing, the cost of the project was
US$33.85 million, of which IBRD financed US$20.42 million, and the Government of Colombia the remaining
US$13.32 million. The closing date was extended twice, from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013 and then to
December 15, 2014. During project execution three restructurings took place [Level two]. The first one consisted of
extending the closing date for the first time. The second one consisted of changing two PDO indicators and seven
intermediate indicators. The third one consisted of extending the closing date a second time, redefining selected
activities for Component 4 (in subcomponent 4.2, strengthening the Dirección General de Crédito Público y del
Tesoro Nacional), and cancelling US$1.3 million of the US$8 million assigned for Component 3, as some of the
activities associated with it had been completed.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High. The objectives had high relevance. For about 15 years different administrations had taken steps to improve the
quality and availability of fiscal information; with this, the various governments sought to improve the quality of
economic policy, to increase the efficiency in the use of public resources, and to improve the transparency on how the
resources were used. These goals were consistent with Government priorities stated in its National Development Plan
for 2006-2010, “A better state at the service of citizens”. The project objectives were also consistent with the pillar “A
State at the Service of its Citizens: Efficient and Effective Government” defined in the Bank’s FY 2008-2011 and
FY2012-16 Country Partnership Strategies. For a long time the Bank has cooperated with the Colombian government
on matters of public financial management, as noted in the concept note Colombia: Programmatic Strategic
Engagement on Public Sector Management and Governance (2011), which summarizes the Bank’s recent activity in
these areas as well as the support it expects to provide Colombia in the short and medium term.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial. The operation had substantial relevance for improving the management of public resources. It addressed
issues of capacity building and infrastructure of information technology, which the government had to tackle to
improve financial management and to increase the efficiency and transparency in the use of public resources. The
project supported improving the quality of information and its management in three key government entities: The
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (coordinates macroeconomic policy, defines fiscal policy, and manages the fisc
resources), Dirección de Aduanas and Impuestos Nacionales (DIAN - Taxes and customs), and the National Planning
Department (prepares the government’s investment program). The project sought to strengthen the technical and
institutional capabilities of the three entities through the provision of technical assistance, training, equipment,
information and communication technology. The results framework clearly links inputs, outputs and outcomes. Some
weaknesses in monitoring and evaluation are discussed in section 10.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The objective of the operation is broken down in three parts: (a) to solidify and expand the gains achieved by the
Borrower under PFM II; (b) to improve the transparency, coverage, operation and interoperability of the Borrower’s
national public management information system; and (c) to allow the Borrower’s decision-makers to link performance
measures with planning, budgeting and other managerial actions. The PAD defined outcome indicators for the
operation but did not map them to the three parts in which the objective is broken below.

1.       Solidify and expand the gains achieved by the Borrower under PFM II (Substantial)

The project under review consolidated and expanded the gains achieved under PFM II. At project completion the
Ministry of Financed had put in place an information system that contained information about revenues and
expenditures of the central government and of about 150 decentralized entities. This information can be consulted by
anyone with access to internet.

2.       Improve the transparency, coverage, operation and interoperability of the Borrower’s national public
information system (Substantial)

Transparency and coverage . Component 1 financed the activities supporting this objective. The activitiesnsisted of
putting in place an integrated financial information system (SIIF-Nación) in the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
SIIF Nación consolidates the financial information of the entities that make up the nation’s general budget and permits
to control the financial and budgetary execution of the entities belonging to the Central Administration and their
decentralized subunits. At the end of the project the system was operating for all the central government entities and
for 105 subnational entities (http://www.minhacienda.gov.co/HomeMinhacienda/siif). Having such information ready
allowed the Ministry of Finance to launch a web site called Portal de Transparencia Económica (Economic
Transparency Portal-http://www.pte.gov.co) containing information on central government finances (budgeted and
executed). With SIIF-Nación all the information on budget execution is available daily. The Transparencia portal
contains information at the aggregate level for the top agency and for almost all the agencies that fall under it (DIAN,
under Ministry of Finance, lacks that information). The review concludes that, for practical purposes, the expected
results in these areas were achieved; that is, 100% percent of information on budget execution is now available daily
(outcome indicator #1 of results framework) and the consolidated budget information is published online on a monthly
basis (outcome indicator #3 of results framework).

Operation. Improvements in the operation of the public information system for the government budget and its
execution are understood as managing the information in a standardized and secure manner, according to the norms,
online and in real time, thereby permitting the generation of information that is consistent, timely, and trustable.
Establishing SIIF-Nación has permitted to reduce to one day the time required to produce aggregate financial data for
the central government and its decentralized entities, thereby achieving the expected result (outcome indicator # 2 of
results framework). The system covers different aspects; among others budget programming, administration of budget
appropriations, administration of revenues and expenditures, and accounting. In addition to its coverage, the system
works faster than what was in place before SIIF-Nación was put in place. For example, the most complex processes
now take 81 seconds, compared with 7 minutes before, and it takes about 4 hours to solve a problem at first level of
service, when in earlier years access to that type of service did not exist. The outcome indicator associated with
customs refers to reducing from 48 hours to less than 8 hours the average time needed to clear customs [reception of
the import declaration to the reception of the request to pick up merchandise]. The ICR notes that it takes less than 7
hours for DIAN (Customs and Tax Administration) to clear merchandise after the electronic payment by the importer
has been made, but it is unclear if the processing of all imports takes less than 7 hours. This is unlikely to have
happened: a recent working paper of the Colombian Central Bank (Banco de la República, Borradores de Economía
889) on the main Colombian institutions involved in the foreign trade sector shows DIAN as one of the worst
performing and its procedures of customs clearance as poor. Because the outcome indicator refers to all imports, this
review concludes that the result indictor cannot tell what has happened in customs.

The ICR mentions other advances. The first one refers to efficiency in tax collection, where the ICR reports that such
efficiency (total tax collection/DIAN’s executed budget) improved as the indicator reached 106, exceeding the target
value of 103.2 (outcome indicator #5). This review points out that the number may have been attained, but what it
means in practice is unclear; as it is defined, it suggests that almost all taxes collected go to pay for DIAN’s
expenditures, making it difficult to say what was actually achieved. The second refers to the number of studies made,
which is touched upon in the point 3 below.

Interoperability. This means that different government agencies using different information systems can use and
process the information generated by all of them. The ICR reports that SIIF-Nación:
   is fully consistent with Sistema Unificado de Inversiones y Finanzas Públicas (SUIFP- Unified system of public
     finances and investments) in matters of budget allocation and execution (outcome indicator # 7 of results
     framework);
   can operate fully with the payments system of Banco de la República (Colombia’s central Bank);
   can operate with SECOP (Sistema Electrónico de Contratación Pública) in the aspects of commitments; and
   can operate with the Ministry of Finance’s Public Debt information.

SIIF-Nación cannot operate with SEIGI (Sistema Especializado de Información y Gestión Integral) because the
system was not put in place. SEIGI was to operate from Dirección General de Crédito Público y del Tesoro
Nacional.

3.     Allow the Borrower’s decision-makers to link performance measures with planning, budgeting and other
managerial actions.(Modest)

The results described in the second objective constitute a solid basis for planning and budgeting resources in a
manner consistent with measures of performance. The ICR does not make the case for and does not present
information that allows the reader conclude that the government links plans and budgets to performance measures.
The ICR informs of the completion of 12 studies (an indicator agreed to in one of the restructurings) which could
strengthen the capacity of the Technical Vice-ministry of Finance to plan fiscal and macroeconomic policy. It could be
argued that such capacity allows the Borrower’s decision makers to link performance measures with planning,
budgeting and other managerial actions, but the ICR does not present evidence to suggest the Borrower has linked
the processes.


 5. Efficiency:
  The PAD (Annex 9) estimated net benefits from implementing SUIFP. The benefits would result from having a (a)
higher rate of budget execution (85%) than the average for the period 2002-2006 (64%), and (b) a return on public
investments of 10%, 11%, and 12% over the amounts invested in the project. The PAD finds that such investment
returns around US$4 million for the years 2010-2011. This analysis has shortcomings: no initial cost and benefits from
higher rates of execution of the project relative to average rates of execution, The ICR does not calculate benefits
along these lines.

The ICR considers overall project efficiency to have been substantial (p. 13) based on information on project costs
and in cost savings that the project helped generate. The Ministry of Finance estimated the savings in cost from
having SIIF at US$105 million for 2011. The savings consisted of (a) lower investments other public entities had to
make to have their own financial management systems (US$21 million); (b) no longer using paper checks (US$5
million); (c) direct payment of wages to the final beneficiary, eliminating one intermediary in the process (US$11
million); and (d) direct payment to final beneficiary from other aspects (e.g., entities executing investment projects).
The Ministry did not update this information for the years 2012-2015, but one can assume that in these years the
benefits are likely to be as high or higher (because of economic growth) than in 2011. The ICR concludes that
efficiency is substantial by comparing two years of cost savings with the total cost of the three projects. This analysis
neglects the effects of inflation on costs and benefits and overlooks the fact that public funds have an opportunity cost.
Finally, it also compares the average costs with similar completed projects in the Bank, concluding that the US$33.85
million for the project under review appear to be in line with the US$25 million that it cost on average to complete
Bank-financed projects in financial management information systems.(par. 47, page 14).

This review estimated an internal rate of return for the three projects for the periods 1993-2015 and 1993-2020
adjusting costs and benefits for inflation, and using the US GDP deflator to correct for changes in prices. Net benefits
and internal rates of return (IRRs) are calculated for the periods 1993-2015 and 1993-2020. The IRRs for the shorter
and longer periods were 10% and 13%, which suggests that the projects produced returns around 12%. These
numbers mean that the benefit/cost ratio is slightly around one and that the net present value of the three projects
becomes positive after 2018.

On balance, this review rates efficiency as substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :
                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The objectives had high relevance. For about 15 years different administrations had taken steps to improve the
quality and availability of fiscal information, and this project helped consolidate past gains in it. The operation also had
substantial relevance because it addressed issues of capacity building and the infrastructure of information
technology, necessary to build up for improving financial management. The project consolidated the gains in public
financial management that Colombia has pursued since the early 1990s and that the Bank financed with two earlier
loans and the one under review. The goals of transparency, coverage, operation, and interoperability of the
Government’s national public information system improved substantially in the last 20 years, and the costs savings
from such effort start to become evident and sufficiently large to conclude that the economic returns to the project are
likely to exceed an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent. Since decision-makers in the government have better
access to more information of better quality they have now the capacity to use the information at hand to link
performance measures with planning and budgeting and to decide on courses of action in a more informed manner.
The ICR does not report whether such link has been done.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The loan supported a program that has been in operation since the early 1990s. During these 20 years different
administrations wanted a better public financial management system, and supported the program because they
considered it important for managing the fiscal accounts and to improve the efficiency of government expenditure.
SIIF-Nación and SUIFP are already well established programs, operating well and contributing to better financial
management, and providing much needed information to the general public, which is likely to demand more
accountability and to support further improvements in the database that make up the fiscal accounts. Progress in
Colombia is slow but steady and future administrations are likely to build on what they receive from their predecessors
and to support this type of programs. Nowhere is that slow but steady progress more evident in the Ministry of
Finance as it is evident from the quality and accessibility of the information and reports that can be found in its
website; anyone familiar with that evolution over time can see the improvements in quality, which are likely to be
maintained by future administrations. . The Government and the Bank are discussing a possible new project that
would deepen achievements in line with Colombia’s OECD accession process (ICR, par 39). This review considers
the risk to development outcome moderate.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
      The project builds on two previous operations and lessons from them, particularly PFM II. It uses the same
implementation arrangements as PFM II.. The Bank seems to have paid insufficient attention to potential problems
in the fiduciary arrangements of the project such as financial management and procurement, as problems during
execution later demonstrated it. The Bank assessed well the risks to development objectives and to the results of
the components and it took appropriate measures to mitigate them; nevertheless, the Bank underestimated the
ability of carrying out the ambitious work in Dirección de Crédito Público. The Bank paid insufficient attention to
the problems of customs administration and how attempts to maintain the MUISCA system -which the project
supported- could be a roadblock in achieving project objectives.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                          Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank put in place a team that knew Colombia’s institutions and organizations and the challenges facing
public financial management in the country. The team kept close track of project execution and was ready to help
solve problems when they arose, which it did, ensuring smoother project execution than it would have been the
case otherwise. Even so, project components aimed at supporting Dirección de Crédito Público and the customs
aspects of DIAN could not be executed as originally planned. The ICR reports on DIAN that “legal changes in law
mid-way through implementation contributed to slower than expected progress as DIAN’s attention and internal
resources needed to be directed away from the development of new capabilities and towards the continuing
operation of existing functions.”, and “implementation progress was ultimately limited by the slower than expected
implementation of a new Customs Statute, which has prevented the full roll-out of advances such as the complete
elimination of paper processes (a change which requires legal modification through the statute before it can be
implemented).”


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The government had substantial interest in the initiatives the project supported and was committed to carrying
out the actions required to improve public financial management. The two projects preceding this one
demonstrated the interest and commitment of various administrations in this endeavor, and set the basis for
implementing this one. Implementation was to be carried out by the Ministry of Finance which agreed to coordinate
project tasks with the Departamento Nacional de Planeación and DIAN, the two other agencies that would receive
part of the loan proceeds. The ICR suggests, without explaining why, that more government support (did not
identify agency) could have improved the interoperability of the systems to be strengthened under the project.

   Government Performance Rating                                  Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Overall, the implementing agencies carried out the tasks needed to implement the project in a satisfactory
manner. Some shortcomings are noted, as this experience can help improve the design of similar projects in the
future. For some time the government fell short in providing timely and reliable financial information during project
execution; even after the timeliness and reliability problems were solved, supervision reports rated financial
management as moderately satisfactory. The government also had shortcomings in managing procurement,
which led to being rated as moderately satisfactory on that score. Frequent changes of leadership in the Dirección
General de Crédito Público y del Tesoro Nacional) contributed to the slow implementation of component 4.2,
aimed at supporting this Dirección within the Ministry of Finance.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                          Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
    The project developed a sound M&E system, based on objectives reasonably well-specified, with indicators that
could be measured and that in about half of the instances reflected whether the objectives were achieved. Of the
seven outcome indicators, four met fully the criterion of reflecting the objectives (indicators 1, 2, 3 and 4), two were not
well specified (indicators 5 and 7), and one did not meet the criterion (indicator 6). Indicator 5, tax administration
efficiency, was defined as the ratio of total tax collection/DIAN’s executed budget (PAD, par. 23.v); the value was set
initially at 101.6 but the unit of measurement was not defined. Indicator 7 was defined as SIIF and SUIFP information
on the allocation and execution of budget item fully consistent, without specifying what fully consistent meant in this
context. Indicator 6, number of studies, is an output indicator whose achievement does not guarantee the objective
was achieved.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The authorities collected baseline and end of project data for the 7 indicators and 24 intermediate input and output
indicators. One outcome indicator collected, average custom clearance time for imports with electronic payment,
cannot replace the original indicator and does not reflect overall improvement in customs administration. From
indicator 6, number of studies -which replaced the original indicator, creation of the Center for Fiscal and Financial
Studies- it is not possible to tell if decision making was enhanced because of the studies; the ICR does not provide
information on this matter.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   A committee in the government met every three months to monitor project advances, and the government provided
two progress reports per year to the Bank. The ICR does not explain how the information collected was used, but from
the Data Sheet section of the ICR it can be concluded that the government followed results closely.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The ICR does not report any issues.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management . The ICR reports that for a time during project execution moderate shortcomings in financial
management jeopardized the capacity to provide timely and reliable information to manage and monitor project
implementation. The moderate shortcomings persisted until project closing, but they did not prevent providing timely
and reliable information for managing the project.

Procurement. This was rated moderately satisfactory since January 2012. The ICR notes the reasons for the
downgrade as: (a) risks associated with DNP needing to appoint a procurement coordinator for the project; (b) issues
with procurement planning and monitoring; and (c) increase in the number of directly contracted consultants. The ICR
does not explain why these are reasons for a downgrade.

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ICR reports progress in the Single Treasury Account as positive unintended impact of the project. Once relevant
legislation was passed in 2011, work was completed on modules for parameterization, payments, consolidation, and
related necessary adjustments to the SIIF, leading to the launching of the payments module in January 2015.


d. Other:
None


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The following lessons come from the ICR.

    Loans do not have to be big to have a big impact. This project shows that projects of high relevance to the
     government, that have strong implementation arrangements and that apply past lessons from previous
     operations can produce good results and have a large impact on a government’s financial management
     systems.
    When the scope of a system with a high proportion of IT investments is unclear, there is a high likelihood that
     project execution will be delayed and that planned activities have to be redesigned.
    Thorough and complete risk assessments of a project’s activities can play a critical role in ensuring that
     complex activities are carried out successfully.

14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes      No

Why? Three IBRD loans financed activities to improve the quality of Colombia's public financial management
system, a goal that the government sought and supported throughout the last 20 years. The three operations
supported by the Bank offer a rich experience of what needs to be done in the technical and managerial aspects to
improve public financial management systems. Their experience would constitute a good source of knowledge and
lessons that could help the Bank in the area of public financial management.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides most of the information necessary to validate the ICR. However, the ICR is not self-contained and
in several instances is unclear. It also lacks data on annual project costs. On its lack of clarity, the ICR could have
been more specific on what it meant in several sections: examples include section 2.4 on fiduciary issues. A proper
assessment of efficiency should have brought information about the annual flows of expenditures for each operation.
On balance, the quality of the ICR is rated Satisfactory.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
