Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24312
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35740; SCL-3574A)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20 MILLION
TO THE
HASEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
HEALTH MANAGEMENT PROJECT (HEALTH II)
June 19, 2002
IHuman Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
[official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.J



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
JD 1 = US$ 1.41
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.71
FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Joseph Saba
Sector Manager/Director:  Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Anne M. Pierre-Louis



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JORDAN
HEALTH II
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    7
6. Sustainability                                                                        8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      11
9. Partner Comments                                                                     11
10. Additional Information                                                              13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
withoiut World Bank authorization.



Project ID: P005319                                       Project Name: HEALTH II
Team Leader: Anne M. Pierre-Louis                        1T Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 19, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH II                                      LIC/TFNumber: CPL-35740;
SCL-3574A
Country/Department: JORDAN                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: HC - Primary Health, Including Reproductive
Health, Chi
]EY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   07/21/1989                             Effective: 06/21/1993         03/23/1994
Appraisal:  11/05/1992                                MTR: 01/01/1998            06/15/1998
Approval:  03/16/1993                              Closing: 12/31/2000          12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GVT/MOH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Joseph Saba                               Ram K. Chopra
Sector Manager:      Jacques Baudouy                            Douglas H. Keare (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:  Anne M. Pierre-Louis                      Denis Broun
ICR Primary Author:  Francisca Ayodeji Akala
:2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
lJnlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective of the project was to enhance the health status of the population through (a)
qualitative improvements in Ministry of Health (MOH) primary and hospital services and (b) reform of
MOH organization, management, finances and planning capacity. The three major strategic elements of
the objectives include training of staff and upgrading selected facilities; reorganization and decentralization
of the MOH; and improving the organization of financing and planning activities in the health sector.
In 1989 growth rates in Jordan slowed down as a result of the fall in oil prices (resulting in the loss of jobs
for Jordanian citizens working in the Gulf countries and the resultant remittances back into the Jordanian
economy) and the devaluation of the Jordanian Dinar. The Government adopted an adjustment program
supported by the IMF which emphasized correction of the macroeconomic imbalances, policies and
institutional reforns to stimulate growth. The major priority identified within the health sector at that time
was therefore to improve efficiency and health expenditures. In this regard, while the project objective were
relevant to the health sector needs and responsive to the countries circumstances and development
objectives, they were not realistic in light of the available capacity and information.
The project supported broadly the CAS objectives of 1995 and of 1999, which were respectively aimed at
developing human resources through reforms in education, health care and social protection particularly in
the context of structural adjustment; and developing programs that would stimulate growth and enhance
efficiency of social protection programs. The scope of the project was not realistic but rather ambitious for
a seven-year project with particular reference to the institutional reform aspects, especially given the fact
that there was no good analytical sector work available at the time. The conditions for a successful project
(e.g. country ownership, relevant data, a thorough understanding of the health sector etc.) were not in place
at the time of project design. The project was initially (in 1989) planned to be phased with the objectives of
the institutional reform activities being met over a 10 to 15 year period but unfortunately this more realistic
approach was not maintained.
While a risk assessment of the project was done, the risks identified were unlikely to have been mitigated by
the defined activities. The first set of risks, related to the ability of the MOH to carry out the institutional
reform, were to be mitigated by the careful design of the content and timetable for MOH reorganization,
cabinet approval of the reorganization program and advance sensitization of staff to the program. The
second set of risks, related to the difficulty of achieving cost recovery goals in a time of austerity, were to
be addressed by the project's substantial program of management and staff training at all levels as well as
the inclusion of safeguards for the poor in the project's study of cost recovery options.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's development objective was revised twice:
1. in 1993, after signing the loan agreement, the objective was revised slightly to become "enhancing the
health status of the population through (a) qualitative improvements in MOH primary, and MOH and
JUH hospital services; and (b) reform of MOH organization, management and planning capacity". The
revisions were necessary because of the additions of the upgrading of Jordan University Hospital (JUH)
and the building of a General Services and Stores Department (GSSD) to the project; and
2. in 1998, during the Mid-Term Review (MTR) several components were dropped or modified and the
project objective became "to enhance the health status of the population through (a) improved quality
of MOH and JUH referral level health services and (b) increased effectiveness of health facility support
services." The rationale for dropping these component (related to the institutional reforrm activities)
was the realization that the objective they supported was not an integral part of the project. While
- 2 -



related activities to achieve this sub-objective were being undertaken in collaboration with other
donors, they had not been systematically monitored along with the other components since loan
effectiveness.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project consisted of the following 5 components:
(1) Service Upgrading (US $ 5.4 million): The aim was to enhance the quality and cost-efficiency of
primary and hospital care service delivery by (i) upgrading the primary care system, emphasizing family
planning and mother and child health (MCH), prevention and community health activities (including
outreach activities); (ii) introducing new management procedures in MOH hospitals which will allow for
cheaper services, increased productivity and better quality of care; and (iii) informing the population about
the appropriateness of using PHCs as the first points of contact with the health care system and about other
major health issues. The main activities under this component included training of primary health care
center doctors, nurses and midwives with special emphasis on MCHIfamily planning; educating the
population about the appropriateness of using PHCs; strengthening hospital management systems and
training managerial staff; and establishing a decentralized hospital management system in a pilot site.
(2) Facilities Improvement (US$ 15.7 million): The aim was to improve the quality of hospital services
through (i) the rehabilitation of seriously sub-standard facilities at the most important hospital in the
northern region and master planning for the main MOH hospital in the. midlands; (ii) the upgrading of
emergency services at five other hospitals; and (iii) provision of new maintenance and storage facilities,
reorganization of maintenance services and creation of a maintenance management system. The main
activities to achieving this aim were selectively renovating and equipping MOH facilities at one hospital;
master-planning a second and upgrading emergency services at five others; and improving MOH
maintenance and storage services and facilities.
(3) Organization and Management (US$ 2.2 million): The aim was to enable the MOH become a more
effective policy-maling, management and planning agency by enhancing the ministry's ability to devolve
day-to-day operation of its services to the regional level. Activities under this component included (i) the
reorganization of the central and regional administration of the MOH; (ii) decentralization of the
management of day-to-day service delivery; (iii) a study of MOH staffing; (iv) training of managerial and
administrative staff; and (v) developing management information systems at central regional and facility
levels.
(4) Financing and Cost Recovery (US$ 1.2 million): The aim was to reduce the dependence of health
sector financing on the public budget and contain the escalation of the health care costs in the public sector
without threatening access of the population (and especially the poor) to the health care system, and to
improve the organization and the management of the MOH health insurance fund. Activities under this
component included a study of early cost recovery measures (with safeguards for the poor) helping MOH
to develop a more rational fee structure over the medium term, and improving operations of the MOH
insurance fund.
(5) Long Term Planning (US$0.8 million): The aim was to help the MOH design a long term health
strategy for the country, by (i) providing better information about and analysis of expected health priorities
for the population; and (ii) exploring options for improving the health sector financing, including the
possible development of a national health insurance scheme. The activities planned included studies of the
health status and epidemiological trends in the population, and of the feasibility of a national health
insurance scheme.
-3 -



The first two components were clearly targeted at achieving the first part of the development objective
(qualitative improvements) while the latter three targeted the second part (MOH institutional reform).
Since the development objective was broad and ambitious in scope, the components to achieve it were also
quite a variety and an assortment that would require very close monitoring by both the Government and
Bank project teams. However while the last three components (mainly studies, with no indication of what
actions would be taken based on the findings) were reasonably related to the institutional reform aspects of
the development objective, they were not sufficient to achieve them. The components should have been
identified and stated as prerequisites or background information necessary for planning the institutional
reform. It was therefore ambitious, in light of the current capacity, to expect that these components would
be sufficient to achieve the objective. There is no evidence that capacity to implement and supervise these
components, was fully assessed and taken into account in designing this project and its components.
A key lesson learned at the time from the Primary Health Care Project (closed May 31, 1993) was the need
to focus more attention on upgrading of the service quality through staff training as opposed to expanding
facilities network. This lesson was not taken into account in preparing this project as evidenced by the
emphasis placed on facilities expansion.
3.4 Revised Components:
Before the project was declared effective in 1994, the Government requested: (i) the inclusion of JUH in the
project activities through the rehabilitation of its facilities, provision of equipment, staff training and
development of a management information system; and (ii) the inclusion of the GSSD in the project
activities through the construction of the facility and the provision of equipment and a management
information system. Total project cost remained the same as the incremental cost for these additions were
accommodated by revising the allocations to the subcomponents and modifying the disbursement
percentages. The Government considered the JUH a principal referral facility in the country and a
significant provider of health care services to those covered under the public sector insurance program. It
was therefore appropriate to include institution to strengthen health care services in the country and the
project team noted that this change was reported to the Executive Directors and the legal documents were
formally amended.
During the MTR in June 1998, the project objective and components were again revised. The project team
at the time felt that the reduction of the components were relatively modest and since 75% of the loan
resources were already contracted, there was relatively little flexibility to make substantial changes. There
was no formal amendment of the legal document. A formal restructuring requiring Board approval was not
carried out even though there were substantial changes to the scope of the project The revisions were as
follows:
(1) Dropping Component 4 (Financing and Cost Recovery) and Component 5 (Long Term Planning):
because they were being financed by other donor agencies. Up until that point, there were no direct inputs
from the project budget towards the activities under these two components.
(2) Dropping the subcomponent on "MOH Organization" from Component 3 (MOH Organization and
Management): because it was originally designed to improve the administration of the MOH by supporting
implementation of an organizational structure by which the Ministry would be divided into three regions,
rather than according to govemorates. However this tri-regional administrative approach was never
approved by the Jordanian Government/Parliament and the component was amended to focus exclusively
on developing a management information system for the Ministry and providing training in management to
for the staff.
-4 -



(3)Dropping the "information, education and communication (IEC) Activities" under Component 1:
because the activities were already being imnplemented by other donor agencies.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The onset of the project pre-dates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) and therefore there
is no official assessment of the project's quality at entry. However, a QAG Rapid Supervision Assessment
of this project in September 1998 found the project design complex and not ready for implementation at
board approval . The ICR finds that the quality at entry to be unsatisfactory overall for the following
reasons:
'e the project's original development objective, while relevant to the CAS objectives and the Jordan health
sector priorities, was too fragmented and complex to be implemented within the project period
especially in the light of weak capacity;
I   the necessary arrangements required to implement and monitor project activities were not put in place.
In particular the project lacked adequate monitoring indicators with which to defend the development
objective rating of the project (see Annex 1);
ID  although activities were identified to mitigate the main risks of the project, they were insufficient and
no detailed plan for implementing and monitoring them was put in place;
Is  The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) had not been established; and
ID Bidding documents for the first year of the project were not ready.
Of the seven criteria for assessing quality at entry, three were marginally satisfactory (technical and
economical; financial management; and environmental aspects), the other four were not (project approach;
institutional capacity analysis; readiness for implementation; and risk assessment/mitigation and
sustainability). The approach to achieving the development objective was not critically assessed at entry,
making it difficult to determine the capacity that would be required by the Government for implementation
and by the Bank for supervision. A thorough institutional capacity analysis would have been a valuable
tool in prioritizing the key health issues and determining the readiness for implementation, which along with
other data would have assisted both the Bank and the Government to realize the magnitude of the proposed
institutional reform activities and the importance of phasing implementation. This shortcoming was only
realized and addressed at the MTR which took place four years into the project implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievements of this project are being assessed against the original development objective in order to
properly reflect both the accountability and the learning functions of the ICR. Overall the project was
unsuccessful in achieving its original development objective. The project marginally achieved the
qualitative improvements in the MOH primary health care facilities and MOH and JUH hospitals and their
services, based on available reports and survey findings. Not all the project indicators were measures of
quality, and those that were, were not comprehensive enough and not routinely monitored during
implementation making it difficult to objectively assess quality impacts. Quality improvements were
targeted mainly at the hospitals than at the primary health care facilities and the project failed to achieve
the institutional reform of the MOH in terms of its organization, management and planning capacities.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Service Upgrading
A total of 31 nurses were trained at the bachelors and masters degree levels in nursing and midwifery while
'many others were sent on local short-term courses on management, drug addiction and emergency and
intensive care. Twelve physicians were sent on specialist courses abroad and 112 physicians from seven
- 5 -



health directorates participated in two-day courses on continuous medical education courses. Twelve
five-day workshops in 10 health directorates were also organized for a total of 190 newly employed doctors
while ten physiotherapist, two pharmacists and five managers also benefited from training courses.
Although the training responded well to the needs of MOH for clinical and specialist care, they were not
correlated with the project's original development objective and therefore cannot be said to have achieved
the planned impact. Furthermore, there were no training indicators, no criteria for selecting staff for
training and no identification of expected training impact. Equipment for training programs were also
supplied under this component and comprised of computers, models, charts and office equipment
Other activities under this component included educating the population on appropriate use of primary
health centers; strengthening hospital management and establishing a decentralized hospital management
system in a pilot site. The former was expected to be financed by other donors and it entailed providing
materials for IEC programs/campaigns but the Government's ICR report notes that there was no evidence
showing that these activities actually took place. Salt Hospital was selected as the pilot site for the
decentralized hospital management system and computers, audiovisuals and medical equipment were
provided. The technical assistance for establishing the management information system was financed and
completed by USAID and the system is currently functioning.
Component 2: Facilities Improvement
The rehabilitation and equipping of Princess Basma and JUH which has been carried out satisfactorily
although with delays leading to the extension of the closing date by a year. Bed occupancy and surgery
rates have increased and new equipment have reduced the number of procedures referred outside the
hospital. Three emergency units were rehabilitated and equipped in Ma'an, Jerash and Princess Basma
Hospitals and are contributing to improved services. Although the GSSD was constructed and equipped,
the location and quality of construction works have not improved significantly the efficiency of services.
Out of the 15 maintenance workshops that were identified for construction and equipping by the project, 11
were completed and are functional. Training was provided locally for maintenance and emergency room
staff, while maintenance engineers were provided fellowship training in France with financing from the
French Government under this component Medical equipment was purchased and evenly distributed to the
facilities, and in particular those supplied to the maintenance workshops have yielded tangible results in
terms of maintenance of medical equipment in the hospitals. A survey conducted in 1998 revealed a
reduction in response time to maintenance requests by 82% on average for all functioning workshops.
Most of the technical assistance provided under this component were financed by GTZ, Government and
the Japanese grants (Policy and Human Resource Development, PHRD) channeled through the World
Bank. This assistance mainly involved maintenance systems development, developing master plans for
Al-Bashir Hospital, a GSSD study as well as maintenance and hospital management systems in JUH
respectively.
Component 3: MOH Organization and Management
Of the five major activities planned under this component, only a few (training, a study of MOH staffing,
and supply of MIS equipment) were carried out. At appraisal, training for managerial and administrative
staff was to include fellowships in administrative management; public administration; financial planning
and budgeting; and developing health strategies. None of these were implemented but they were replaced
by short health management courses for seven staff which have had less of an impact. The government
financed studies on "Staffing and Manpower Needs for the MOH" and "MIS for MOH" but the findings
are not being utilized for planning purposes. The majority of the MIS components initially planned for
implementation under this project were dropped and planned for implementation in the follow-up Health
Sector Reform Project. However, the PIU and Al-Bashir Hospital were equipped with computers, while
-6 -



hardware and software for internet connectivity for the MOH were also financed under this component.
Component 4: Financing and Cost Recovery
Prior to dropping this component, a Health Financing Study was done and financed through the PHRD
grant before loan effectiveness.
Component 5: Long Term Planning
Prior to dropping this component, the PIUs progress report notes that USAID had financed some related
activities including a fellowship course on epidemiological systems and provision of some equipment for
epidemiological surveys. However the Government ICR notes that there was no evidence of this activity
having been carried out.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had some institutional development impact, considering the amount of facilities upgraded
and the number of staff that have received technical, administrative as well as managerial training (all short
courses which have less impact than the more detailed fellowship management programs that were planned
for the project). There is no evidence that the MOH is better organized or managed as a result of the
training programs.
The maintenance workshops established in each hospital has helped the staff better respond to maintenance
requests with the survey of 1998 showing a reduction in response time to maintenance requests. No
updates of this or the training survey are available to further assess institutional development impact by
project closing. Provision of equipment has improved both hospital and office management performance.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
*   Contractors were given 113 days of legal extension by the Ministry of Public Works due to special
circumstances outside the control of the contractors. This contributed to delays in the implementation
of the Princess Basma Hospital.
*   The MOH had some. difficulties meeting the co-financing arrangements with other donor to the project
as it was originally designed.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
* Macroeconomic policies: Major parts of the project's Component 3 was originally based on a plan by
the Govenmment to have the MOH managed under a tri-regional administrative approach which was
never approved. There was also a plan to have all hospitals managed by a newly created structure
named the National Medical Institute which was eventually abolished and also affected the
implementation of the project as it was originally designed;
a   Government commitment: There were frequent changes of top level officials (Ministers/Secretary
Generals of Health) which affected the leadership, ownership and commitment to the achievement of
project's developmental objectives and the project did not receive Government's sustained support. The
project's closing date was extended by a year due to major delays in the rehabilitation of Princess
Basma Hospital. The final decision from the Government to include this hospital in the project came
- 7 -



late in the project implementation and contributed significantly to this extension;
*   Project Implementation Unit (PIU): The PIU did not have the required authority to effectively
implement and supervise the project without constantly seeking senior MOH management approval.
These led to considerable delays in implementation; and
*   Coordination, administrative procedures and contracting process: Coordination between the MOP and
the MOH was not optimal especially with the frequent changes in the MOH. Government
administrative procedures and the clearance delays in the contracting process across government
ministries affected project implementation. The Ministry of Public Works had to clear all contracts
from all government ministries and this bureaucratic process across ministries contributed to delays in
project implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Inadequate staff profile/mix: At loan effectiveness the PIU was composed of seven staff (a director, three
architects, two accountants and one procurement officer), a profile which reflects the emphasis on
monitoring the infrastructure components. The PIU had no technical staff to oversee the training plan and
to follow up on implementing the conclusions of the various studies and no management specialist to
coordinate the various activities and supervise the institutional reform. Although each PIU staff had a job
description, these job descriptions did not assign the training and reform supervision to any particular staff
Eventually, the PIUs procurement officer took over the responsibility of supervising the training activities.
As implementation progressed, the PIU lost several staff who were not replaced. All of these factors
including the PHIIs lack of delegated authority contributed to the poor monitoring of the project's
development objectives and affected the ability of the PIU to respond to implementation challenges.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were no major cost changes, no fund flow problems and the exchange rate remained stable during
the life-time of the project. The total project cost at the time of the ICR is US$25.56 million compared
with the SAR estimate of US$30 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project, particularly the rehabilitation and construction activities, is likely. Since
the institutional reform aspect of the project were not achieved, the ICR cannot assess the sustainability of
this aspect of the project The major activities financed under this project (rehabilitation of infrastructures
and training of stafl) will have recurrent costs and the sustainability is largely based on the MOH and JUH
including these incremental costs in their yearly budget. These activities include the continuous medical
education program for staff, and recurrent hospital and maintenance workshops costs. The maintenance
workshops in the hospitals are likely to be sustained through the recently established Medical Engineering
Directorate. The GSSD could be sustainable, provided that remedial work is initiated and new extensions
are added to meet actual needs of the existing facilities.
In terms of technical sustainability, major components of the ongoing Health Sector Reform Project are an
extension of this project and are therefore likely to be sustainable, at least for the duration of the Health
Sector Reform Project Government could use the opportunity of the ongoing project to establish a health
management information system to assist with planning, decision maldng and better coordination of health
sector development activities.
6.2. Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The medical equipment purchased under the project will be maintained by the MOH through a contractual
agreement with the Royal Scientific Society. The budget for the service contract and spare parts as well as
- 8-



training of maintenance staff have been included in the annual budget of the MOH. Plans are being made
to make regions responsible for their regional store (including procurement and maintenance of equipment)
and extra budgets will be allocated for this purpose.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Unsatisfactory
The Bank correctly identified the need for this project and was proactive in initiating dialogue and
partnering with the Government. During appraisal, while the Bank team correctly identified the MOH
abilities as a critical risk to the project, it failed to follow this up by critically assessing the Government's
actual capacity to implement the fragmented and complex project design or putting in place detailed
implementation arrangements and realistic project indicators to monitor progress. The Bank related with
other donor agencies in Jordan during appraisal as evidenced by the inclusion of several sub-component
financed by these donors in the project However this should have been followed up during implementation
by regularly assessing the contribution of all donor activities to the project's development objective. A QAG
Rapid Supervision Assessment of this project in 1998 found the project design complex and not ready for
implementation at approval, with several components lacking bidding documents
7.2 Supervision:
Unsatisfactory
Supervision missions were short and in comparison to the preparation missions the composition of the
teams inadequate to attend to the complex mix of activities (see Annex 4). Activities intended to mitigate
the risks of the project were not closely monitored as implementation commenced and more attention was
paid to the physical infrastructures activities, contracts, procurement and disbursement patterns than to the
more technical issues (such as the implementation of the more institutional reform activities and the training
plan). Several components and their indicators were not monitored and reported in the Project Status
Reports (PSR) which could have signaled the need for project restructuring much earlier than at MTR. A
QAG Rapid Supervision Assessment of 1998 noted that the MTR did not lead to constructive solutions. At
the MTR, a new set of monitoring indicators were agreed upon but were subsequently not used
systematically to evaluate the progress of the project.
While the Bank was willing and able to work closely with the Government to modify project activities over
the life of the project in an attempt to ensure that it remained consistent with current sector priorities, the
institutional reform activities should have been more closely monitored. Components were dropped during
the MTR mission supposedly because funding was available from other sources, but they were
subsequently not monitored. Initially, not enough attention was paid to the training activities which
appeared to have been detennined on an ad hoc basis without links made to the development objectives but
attempts were later made to rectify this by requesting an evaluation of the training activities.
At the early stages of project implementation, there were a number of staff changes in the Bank's project
team which could have affected implementation at that time, but this stabilized a few years into project
implementation. Although the project implementation team had serious reservations on the QAG
Assessment of 1998, this Assessment reported that insufficient attention was paid to the achievement of the
development objective of the project and that PSR satisfactory ratings were based more on expectations of
the team than on real achievement on the ground. This fact along with the PSR ratings against the revised
project objective could partly explain the disconnect between the PSR ratings of mainly satisfactory and
-9-



those of the ICR of mainly unsatisfactory (rated against the original project objective).
The QAG Report of 1998 noted that revised accounts were approved in the field by Bank non-specialists
and were not satisfactorily done. Although dissatisfaction with audit report was expressed because the
Special Account Reconciliation was incorrect, no subsequent amendments were made by the Government
before it was approved by the Bank.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Unsatisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Unsatisfactory
Declaration of effectiveness of the project loan was delayed for several reasons. Government requested
changes to the project after approval and the PIU was not fully established until a year after loan approval.
Frequent changes of Ministers of Health led to several changes in project direction and activities to be
included in the project although the involvement of the Ministry of Planning at the political level
contributed to the progress of the project preparation. Effectiveness conditions such as completion of
preliminary studies (financed by PHRD grants) were not met on time leading to several extensions of the
closing date of Trust Funds.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory
The was no sustained Government support due in large part to the frequent changes in the MOH during the
life of the project Authority was not delegated to the PIU nor to lower levels of the MOH and necessary
resources were not made available in a timely manner. For example, delays in providing Government
counter-part funding for training activities led to a change in loan financing arrangement for the activities.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Unsatisfactory
Staff mix/profile of the PrU did not exactly match the requirements of the project implementation needs and
tasks were not clearly defined among staff (e.g. no staff assigned to monitoring training activities). The PIU
was not involved in the decision maidng process of the MOH maldng it more reactive than proactive in
meeting the project's implementation challenges. The PIU had no formal mechanisms for tracking
co-financing activities with the other donors. More attention was focused on infrastructure at the expense
of the software components of the project and although it was agreed at the MTR that regular updates of
the projects new monitoring indicators be included in the PIUs progress reports, these were not done.
Several audit reports submitted by the Government were of unacceptable quality because they were not of
the international standards nor in the format required by the Bank. The financial management aspects of
the project had some weaknesses at the early stages of the project but some improvements were made
towards the end.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory
- 10 -



8. Lessons Learned
During Preparation to Appraisal Stage
oD  It is essential to secure strong Government commitmentlsupport for complex projects. Project
preparation lacked the required sustained Government support and the frequent changes of Ministers of
Health had adverse effects. Having an overall Government Strategy in place before designing a project
that plays a part in implementing this strategy would be more realistic.
o   Avoid complex project designs especially those that depend on future government actions/policy (e.g
passing a law) which neither the Bank nor the implementing agency have any control over. Project
objective and design should be aligned with government's capacity to implement. In order to do this, it
is important to analyze Government's capacity during project preparation so as to make the necessary
adjustments before implementation. Attention will be paid to this in the MTR of the ongoing Jordan
Health Sector Reform project.
o' Implementation arrangements (including having an adequately staffed PIU and identifying effective
monitoring and evaluation indicators) need to be in place as early as possible in the project cycle but
definitely before negotiations. It is not very useful waiting to make these implementation arrangements
conditions of effectiveness. Monitoring indicators need not be limited to quantitative measures,
qualitative indicators are also useful for monitoring project progress.
*i Donor coordination is essential for a project such as this one which had activities financed by other
donors contributing to the development objectives. Anrangements for monitoring and assessing their
contributions during implementation need to be in place during project preparation.
'During Project Implementation
*' It is important to have key performance indicators with which to closely monitor the development
objective of a project. In this regard, closely following the implementation plans put in place during
preparation are critical.
*   Supervision teams should be of adequate skills mix to address relevant development objectives and
documentation of supervision missions need to be comprehensive and detailed.
*   It is important to focus more on development objectives and outcomes of the project during
implementation. This project focused more on inputs (infrastructure, procurement, disbursement,
audits and financing issues) than on outputs/outcomes (are objectives being achieved? what is the
impact of each component on the development objective as they were being implemented?). This
approach led to the project being implemented more as a purely investment project without the
institutional reform components.
*   Addressing project implementation issues and re-working the project as necessary is helpful for
complex project. Very close monitoring was necessary as was proactively seeking management's
involvement earlier. Postponing issues to the MTR should be avoided and in this project, the MTR took
place too late.
* Frequent changes in top policy makers of specific ministries/government sector implementing projects
as well as in the Bank supervision teams affect the achievement of project objectives significantly.
*   Early consideration of sustainability issues in the project cycle is important.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The objectives of the Health Management Project were to improve the health care quality in the MOH. To
achieve that, the project was designed to enhance primary health care and hospital services (qualitative
improvement MOH primary and hospital. services) with emphasis on support services i.e. management and
organization of health services, reform of MOH organization, management, financing and planning
capacity. Delays in implementing the different strategies as set within the original loan agreement resulted
- 11 -



in approved modifications such as to improve the quality of MOH and JUH referral level health services
and increase effectiveness of health facility support services.
The main finding of the Health Management Project evaluation report are summarized below:
* Project objectives: Some of the project's original objectives were not realistically modified. Such
modifications were unclear and therefore difficult to measure. Some of proposed strategies, to reach the
objectives were not consistent with the political environment.
* Training: The retained training component was carried out on an ad hoc basis and not according to
plans. Training was not related in most part to the project objectives. Training was modified from PHC
and management of health to mainly training in clinical specialties. The selection criteria of candidates
was not always consistent with project objectives, though doctors and some of other health
professionals who were trained in specialty areas improved their knowledge.
* Civil Works: Princess Basma Hospital extension and rehabilitation construction works, aimed at
enhancing quality of service, were satisfactory. Improving occupancy rate could not be assessed since
the project was recently completed. ( 1991 rate was at 60% and increased to 74.2% in year 2000. JUH
rehabilitation proved to be effective regarding refurbishing of infrastructure services and is justified.
The emergency unit of Princess Basma Hospital, an integral part of the new extension wing, is
adequate but cannot cope with future excessive patient load. Jerash Hospital emergency unit is not
effectively functioning. It was understood that Jerash Hospital Emergency unit was relocated within the
hospital complex not according to design plan.
Construction work of new general stores and supplies department (GSSD) did not improve the
department's performance. The location is remote, spacing programs were inappropriate and the built
storage facility of 14,000 m2 were not up to the actual needs estimated to be 22,000 m2.
Bio-medical Engineering workshops' new construction did not prove cost effective. It did not serve the
purpose, being abandoned and the bio-engineering operation is relocated at the Royal Scientific
Society. The new workshops are partially occupied by the Transport Department. It is recommended
that MOH conducts a re-assessment study to improve the use of the newly constructed buildings.
Construction of maintenance peripheral workshops, created within existing buildings, are satisfactory
as they provide basic maintenance tasks within the facility.
*   Medical Equipment computers. hardware and workshops equiRment: Medical equipment purchased
under the loan agreement finance program, were according to actual needs at JUH and MOH (Princess
Basma Hospital and Emergency units). Consequently such equipment are a major element that led to
facilities' functional diagnostic and treatment improvement. Computers and other hardware were
satisfactory and useful as well. The Bio-medical Engineering Workshops' equipping with tools and
testing devices, at peripheral hospitals, assisted to provide basic onsite maintenance services. This had
tangible results regarding cost effectiveness, reduced medical equipment down-time and concerned
departments' satisfaction.
(O) Cofinanciers:
- 12 -



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
t     i -  Indlcator/Matrix                  Projected In last PSR;                 ActuaULatest Estimate
Money was spent on prliority hospitals  US$ 18,907,000 (Loan and Govt financing)  US$ 23.36 (Loan and Govt financing)
Proportion of patients transferred from                                       26% (Maan Hospital)
emergency department to inpatient ward                                        7.3% (Jerash Hospital)
2.9% (Princess Basma Hospital)
Number of admissions In Priness Basma  12,132 (2000)                          12,701 (2001)
Hospital                               524(00
Number of outpatients                  5.204(2000)                            5,354 (2001)
Reduced response time to maintenance                                          Average 82% for all maintenance workshops
requests
Reduced wastage of pharmacouticals and  Not available                         Not Available
supplies
Number of visits per person per year   1.6                                    2.0
Cost recovery of health system         15%                                    25%
No systematic evaluation of performance indicators during project implementation. Data shown is based
on surveys carried out in 2000 and findings from the Govemments ICR.
Output Indicators:
Ind_cator_Mat_  __x                  Projected In last PSR '               ActuaULatest Estniate
Not Available
End of project
No output indicators identified during project preparation.
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
'Appridsal  iActual/Latost  Percentage of
'.:  ', '" Estimate  :itimata   .   Appraisal
Project Cost By Comp.onent            US$nmjIlion _-US$illion,
1. Service Upgrading                                  5.40           1.10             20
2. Facility Improvement                              15.70          23.36            149
3. MOH Organization and Management                    2.20           0.69             31
4. Financing and Cost Recovery                        1.20           0.02              2
5. MOH Long Term Planning                             0.80           0.39             49
Total Baseline Cost                                  25.30          25.56
Physical Contingencies                               2.50
Price ContlngencIes                                  2.10
Total Project Costs             29.90          25.56
Total Financing Required              29.90          25.56   1
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.CR'   Procurement Method:
Expenditure Category                    NCB        .              N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      9.00         3.60          1.10         0.00         13.70
(8.50)       (1.20)        (1.10)        (0.00)      (10.80)
2. Goods                      6.90         0.90          0.80         0.00          8.60
(6.40)       (0.70)        (0.80)        (0.00)      (7.90)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          4.00          3.60        7.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.50)        (0.00)       (1.50)
Total                      15.90         4.50         5.90          3.60        29.90
(14.90)       (1.90)        (3.40)       (0.00)       (20.20)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement'Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         Oth           N.B.F.      otlCost
1. Works                     12.50         2.20          0.00         0.00        14.70
(10.00):      (1.76)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (11.76)
2. Goods                      5.07          1.12         0.00         0.00         6.19
(4.31)       (0.95)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (5.26)
3. Services                   0.00         0.00          0.91         2.13         3.04
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.91)       (0.00)       (0.91)
Total                      17.57         3.32         0.91         2.13         23.93
(14.31)       (2.71)       (0.91)        (0.00)      (17.93)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
- 15 -



of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
roI 9  Y  P  q          .      Percentage of Appraisal
-    Component              Appraisal Estimate          ActuaV/Latest Estimate
___________________      Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      ;         CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
1. Service Upgrading     1.80      3.60                0.49       0.54              27.2    15.0
2. FacilIty Improvement  10.20      5.50               17.77      3.90              174.2   70.9
3. MOH Organization and   1.90     0.30                 0.54      0.79              28.4   263.3
Management
4. Financing and Cost
Recovery
5. MOH Long Term
Planning
Components 4 and 5 were cancelled during the Mid-Term Review. Cofinancing details were not available
- 16 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 17 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
IdentlflcatlontPreparation
August 1989                  7   Health Specialist, Health Policy
and Management Specialist,
Health Economist, Architect,
Health Planner, 2 Health
Economist
October 1989                 4   Health Economist, Human
Resources Specialist, Health
Policy/Hospital Issues Specialist,
Public Health Specialist
Appraisal/Negotlation
February 1990                8   Senior Architect, Public
Health Specialist, Health
Economist, PHC/MCH
Specialist, Hospital
Management Specialist,
Organization and
Management Specialist,
Senior Economist,
Operations Analyst
September 1992               7   Health Specialist,
Implementation Specialist,
Health Organization Specialist,
Hospital Management Specialist,
Medical Equipment Specialist,
Primary Care Specialist,
Research Analyst
February 1993                6   Health Specialist, Project Officer,
Country Officer, Legal Officer,
Disbursement Officer, Principal
Implementation Specialist
Supervlsion
January 1995                 2   Human Resources Specialist,         U             S
Architect
June 1995                    4   Public Health Specialist, Human     S             S
Project Launch                   Resources specialist, Senior
Health Financing Specialist,
Architect
October 1995                 1   Health Specialist                   S             S
July 1996                    1   Health Specialist, Architect        S             S
October 1996                 2   Health Specialist, Architect        U             S
April 1997                   2   Sector Manager, Health              U             S
Specialist
July 1997                    2   Health Specialist, Sr.              U             S
Implementation Specialist
-18-



December 1997                1   Health Specialist                 S             S
June 1998                    5   Health Specialist, Health Policy   S            S
Mid-tern Review                  Advisor, Sr. Implementation
Specialist, MIS Specialist, Sector
Director
September 1998               2   Health Specialist,                S             S
Iniplementation Specialist
January 1999                 3   Sector Leader, Health Specialist,  S            S
Health Economist
June 1999                    3   Health Specialist,                 S             S
Implementation Specialist, MIS
Specialist,
November 1999                3   Sector Leader, Health Specialist,  S             S
Portfolio Manager
January 2000                 3   Health Specialist,                 S             S
Irnplementation Specialist, Team
Assistant
July 2000                    3   Principle HNP Specialist,          S             S
Implementation Specialist,
Program Assistant
February 2001                2   Lead PH Specialist, Lead           S             S
Operations Officer
September 2001               4   Lead PH Specialist, Public         S             S
Health Specialist,
Implementation Specialist, MIS
Specialist
ICR
June 2002                   S    Lead PH Specialist (TTL),
Health Specialist,
Implementation Specialist,
MIS Specialist, Program
Assistant
L~~~~~~~~~~~~
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               NA                          186
Appraisal/Negotiation                    NA                          187
Supervision                              NA                          609
ICR                                      NA                           33
Total                                    NA                         1,014
The above budget includes all trust funds. The BB budget amounts to US$550,000.
-19-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
3Macro policies                     O H OSUOM ON O NA
3Sector Policies                    O H OSU*M ON O NA
% Physical                          O H OSUOM ON O NA
OFinancial                          O H OSUOM      ON   O NA
O Institutional Development         O H O SU 0 M O N 0 NA
3Environmental                      O H OSUOM-ON * NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction           O H OSUOM O N O NA
[9 Gender                     O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)      OH OSUOM O N O NA
F Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
F Public sector management          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)            O H OSUOM O N O NA
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS       * U   O HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS * U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS       * U   O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
z Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       * U   O HU
FOverall                                            OHS OS       * u   O HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires/Memorandum of Understanding, Back-to-Office Reports and Project Status Reports;
2. Project Progress Reports from Project Implementation Unit;
3. Consultant Study Reports Financed under the Project;
4. Borrowers ICR Report dated April 2002;
5. Staff Appraisal Report for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Health Management Project, February
23, 1993 (Report No. 11418-JO);
6. QAG: Second Rapid Supervision Assessment (RSA2), September 1998
7. Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Health Sector Study, April 1997 (Report No. 16561)
8. Project Appraisal Document for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Health Sector Reform Project,
March 5, 1999 (Report No. 19006-JO
9. Jordan Country Assistance Strategy November 1999 (Report No. 19890)
10. Project Completion Report Jordan Primary Health Care Project, June 13, 1994 (Report No. 13139)
-22-






IMAGING
Raport No.:        24312
Type:



