Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3574 JO
                          Loan Agreement
                    (Health Management Project)
                              between
                    HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated March 23, 1993
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3574 JO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 23, 1993, between HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF
JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from bilateral and
multilateral aid and development organizations (Cofinanciers) loans
and grants in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to about
$2,400,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and each of the Cofinanciers; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Page  2
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower; and
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
Page  3
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
                   bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                   as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOH
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
medical, financial, engineering and public health administration
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Page  4
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
Page  5
namely, that the Project Implementation Unit with organization,
staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank shall have
been established.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Planning
            P.O. Box 555
            Amman
            Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   THE MINISTRY OF PLANNING        2131920
                   Amman
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                       248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                         By /s/ Fayez Al-Tarawneh
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ C. Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  6
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works under          9,700,000        75%
    Parts B(1) and
    B(3) of the
    Project (includ-
    ing engineering
    services)
(2) Goods under                7,100,000        100% of foreign
    Parts A, B,                                 expenditures,
    C, D and E                                  100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3) Overseas Fellow-           1,300,000        100% of foreign
    ships and Technical                         expenditures
    Assistance
(4) Unallocated                1,900,000
         TOTAL                20,000,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000, may be
made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after September
30, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
improving the health of its population, strengthening the operation
and management of MOH and upgrading primary care, hospital and
family planning services.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  7
Part A:     Services Upgrading
      Assisting the MOH to upgrade the quality and cost-efficiency
of primary and hospital health care service delivery through:
      (1)   upgrading the primary health care system by:
(i) strengthening the provision of family planning, mother and child
health and preventative care services; (ii) gathering basic
epidemiological information on a systematic basis; and
(iii) providing in-service training in family practice and maternal
and child health for approximately 540 general practitioners and
approximately 400 nurses and midwives in primary health care
centers.
      (2)   introduction of a decentralized hospital management
system by: (i) development of a pilot demonstration management
support system at Salt hospital; (ii) provision of overseas
fellowships in the fields of hospital administration, financial
planning and budgeting, management information systems, accounting,
personnel management, cost analysis and cost efficient procedures;
and (iii) replication of management support systems at other
hospitals.
      (3)   improving rates of utilization of primary health care
centers and reducing pressure on hospital outpatient departments by:
(i) training of personnel; (ii) introduction of a revised fee
structure for health facilities; and (iii) development of
information, education and communication programs.
Part B:    Facilities Improvement
      Assisting the MOH to improve the availability and quality of
hospital services through:
      (1)   reconstruction of the Princess Basma Hospital facilities
by: (i) construction of new structures on the existing hospital
site; and (ii) conversion and refurbishing of the existing
facilities.
      (2)   development of a comprehensive master-plan for upgrading
the Al-Bashir Hospital in Amman, taking into account population and
activity projections, land availability, and technology assessment.
      (3)   upgrading and improvement of emergency services by:
(i) upgrading of emergency room facilities and equipment at
approximately five hospitals; (ii) improved screening of emergency
cases; (iii) development of a master-plan for the emergency room at
Ajlun hospital; and (iv) provision of specialized training for
emergency room personnel.
      (4)   improvement of maintenance for hospital facilities and
medical equipment by: (i) construction and/or refurbishing and
equipping of approximately 12 hospital maintenance workshops;
(ii) construction and equipping of two regional maintenance centers
for smaller hospitals and primary health care facilities and
regional coordination of maintenance activities; (iii) development
of decentralized maintenance divisions in Regional Health
Authorities to set up a national maintenance management system; and
(iv) provision of specialized training and overseas fellowships for
engineers and technicians.
Part C:     Organization and Management
      Assisting the MOH in effective policymaking, management and
planning through:
      (1)   reorganization of the MOH to improve management and
planning at the center and to delegate greater operational authority
to the regional level by: (i) retaining responsibility at the
central level for policy planning, administration and personnel
management, services and supplies management, quality control and
Page  8
assurance and technical and professional affairs; (ii) establishment
and equipping of three Regional Health Authorities to administer and
control primary care and hospital services organization; and
(iii) provision of overseas fellowships in the fields of public
administration, financial planning and budgeting, cost accounting,
cost recovery, management information, personnel records, staff
evaluation, record keeping and accounting and to examine available
models and approaches to administrative management in the health
sector.
      (2)   carrying out of a staffing study to evaluate options
for: (i) reallocating under-utilized personnel; (ii) retraining
staff to improve productivity; (iii) reducing hiring for clerical
and intermediate positions; and (iv) reducing redundancies through
attrition and non-renewal of employment contracts.
Part D:     Financing and Cost Recovery
      Assisting the MOH to contain the escalation of health care
costs in the public sector, to maintain the access of the poor to
the health care system, and to improve the organization and
management of the health insurance fund, through:
      (1)   carrying out of a cost recovery study to: (i) improve
revenues from fees; (ii) establish an appropriate gradient of fees
between primary and secondary care; and (iii) ensure protection of
access by the poor to health services.
      (2)   improve administration of MOH's health insurance fund
by: (i) provision of computers and software for MOH's Directorate of
Health Insurance; and (ii) provision of overseas fellowships in
health financing and health insurance.
Part E:     Long-Term Planning
      Assisting the Borrower to design a long-term health strategy
through:
      (1)   carrying out an epidemiological and economic analysis of
major disease trends and issues, evaluating the cost-effectiveness
of alternative intervention strategies for future prevention and
treatment.
      (2)   carrying out a feasibility study for a national health
insurance system to cover the entire population of the Borrower.
      (3)   provision of overseas fellowships in epidemiology and
health insurance administration.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                     Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 1998                           375,000
May 1, 1999                                390,000
November 1, 1999                           400,000
May 1, 2000                                415,000
November 1, 2000                           435,000
May 1, 2001                                450,000
November 1, 2001                           465,000
May 1, 2002                                485,000
November 1, 2002                           500,000
May 1, 2003                                520,000
November 1, 2003                           540,000
May 1, 2004                                560,000
Page  9
November 1, 2004                           580,000
May 1, 2005                                600,000
November 1, 2005                           625,000
May 1, 2006                                645,000
November 1, 2006                           670,000
May 1, 2007                                695,000
November 1, 2007                           720,000
May 1, 2008                                750,000
November 1, 2008                           775,000
May 1, 2009                                805,000
November 1, 2009                           835,000
May 1, 2010                                865,000
November 1, 2010                           895,000
May 1, 2011                                930,000
November 1, 2011                           965,000
May 1, 2012                              1,000,000
November 1, 2012                         1,040,000
May 1, 2013                              1,070,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                               The interest rate (expressed as a
                               percentage per annum) applicable to
                               the Loan on the day of prepayment
                               multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                 0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                 0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                  1.00
      maturity
                           SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
Page  10
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Jordan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods manufactured by a limited
number of suppliers up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.   Items for works for the rehabilitation of Princess Basma or
under contracts estimated each to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,600,000 and items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
4.    Items or groups of items of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more, and for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
Page  11
in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall finalize in agreement with the Bank, by
September 30, 1993, the terms of reference and the qualifications of
consultants for the staffing study to be carried out under Part C
(2) of the Project, and shall carry out such study and discuss with
the Bank its results and the Borrower's recommendations for follow-
up actions by January 31, 1995. In light of such recommendations and
exchange of views, the Borrower shall carry out a program for the
implementation thereof in accordance with a schedule agreed to
between the Borrower and the Bank.
2.    The Borrower shall finalize in agreement with the Bank, by
August 31, 1993, the terms of reference and the qualifications of
consultants for the cost recovery study to be carried out under Part
D (1) of the Project, and shall carry out such study and discuss
with the Bank its results and the Borrower's recommendations for
follow-up actions by January 31, 1995. Thereafter, on the basis of
such recommendations and exchange of views, the Borrower shall carry
out a program to improve cost recovery in the health sector in
accordance with a schedule agreed to between the Borrower and the
Bank.
3.    The Borrower shall finalize in agreement with the Bank, by
October 31, 1994, the terms of reference and the qualifications of
consultants for the epidemiological and economic analysis of major
disease trends and issues to be carried out under Part E (1) of the
Project, and shall discuss with the Bank the preliminary results of
Page  12
such study and the Borrower's recommendations for follow-up actions
by October 31, 1996.
4.    The Borrower shall finalize in agreement with the Bank, by
January 31, 1994, the terms of reference and the qualifications of
consultants for the feasibility study for a national health
insurance system to be carried out under Part E (2) of the Project,
and shall carry out such study and discuss with the Bank its results
and the Borrower's recommendations for follow-up actions by May 31,
1997.
5.    The Borrower shall finalize in agreement with the Bank, by
December 31, 1996, the terms of reference for a mid-project
evaluation, and shall discuss recommendations for an action plan
with the Bank by March 1, 1997. The Borrower shall implement the
action plan according to a schedule agreed upon with the Bank.
6.    The Borrower shall (a) formulate and carry out measures agreed
upon with the Bank for the reorganization of MOH, referred to in
Part C (1) of the Project, and (b) ensure the completion of such
reorganization by March 31, 1995.
7.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by August 31, 1993, or
such other date as the Bank may agree, evidence demonstrating that
commitments have been obtained from the Cofinanciers in the
appropriate amount stated in Recital B of the Preamble to this
Agreement and, should such commitments fall short of securing such
amount, that the shortfall shall be covered by other resources
allocated for the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
Page  13
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Page  14
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
