Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17977
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
(Cr. 2257-PAK)
June 3, 1998
Rural Development Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



-11-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           
SAR((May 1991)                              USS 1.0=         Rs. 22.5
Completion (December 1997)                  US$ 1.0 =        Rs. 44
GOP AND GOProvinces' FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July I - June 30
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
lin perial Units                                           Metric UJnits
I inch (in)                                                  25.4 millimeters (mm)
foot (ft)                                                30.5 centimeters (cm)
I vard (yd)                                                0.915 meters (m)
I mile(mi)                                                 1.609 kilometers (km)
I acre (ac)                                                0.405 hectares (ha)
i square mile (sq mi)                                      259 hectares (ha)
I pound (lb)                                               0.454 kilograms (kg)
I longton (] g ton)                                        1.016 metric tons (t)
Zcibic foot/second (cfs)                                 0.0283 c.ubic meters/second (m/sec)
I -~                                                         28.32 liters/second (1/sec)
i .___________________________           _____________       1,233.5    e ib;  rt .ers   (m J)
Pakistani Units                         Imperial Units                         Metric Units
I, m-naund                             82.3 lbs (0.0367 Igton)                 37.32 kg
26.8 maunds                            2,205 lbs                                1.0 t
27.2 maunds                             1.0 Ig ton (2,240 Ibs)                  1,016 kg
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADIBP         Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan          FVIA            Project Implementation Assistance
CC A          Cultural Command Area                               F'D            Project Director
(- Ws         Cfommunity 1'ubewelils                              F-'ID          Provincial Irrigation Department
DGWM          Director General of Water Management                PMC            Project NManagement Cell
E f' R        Economic Rate of Return                             FTW            Private Tubewell
FGW           Fresh G roundwater                                  RAP            Revised Action Proeram
FMC()         Functional Mobile Credit Ot'ficer                   SAR            Staff'Appraisal Report
l:()s        'Farmers Organization                                SCARP          Salinity Control & Reclamation lProject
((OP          Giovernment of Pakistan                             SCF            Standard Conversion Factor
(iOP1uniah    (Government of Punjab Province                      SGW            Saline Groundwsater
(I-Sindh     (Government of'Sindh Province                        S'MO           SCARP Monitoring
CR            implementation Completion Report                    SNR           SCARP North Rohri
SR           Irrigation 'S stcm Rehabilitation                    STPP          SCARP Trmnsition lPilot Proiect
\I Milliona                                        'iSTP          Sccond SCARP Transition Project
\AI' iMlillion Acre Fect                                       'STWs           SCARPTEubcewells
i('()         Mobile Credit )fticer                                I'W           'ube elil
NRP           North Robri 1'roiect                                1TWs           1 ubcv clis
'& NI        Operation and Mnintenance                          \\APDA          Water &lox\cer A)woe ipmcn:  ltmi!\
!!- ii       ( )n Farm Water Malnageinent                            fIA        \k atcr l ser Association
Vice Ilresident:       Mrlieko Nishimizu 
Countrv D)ircctor:     Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Managers        Rid\wan Ali & Michaci Baxter
Staff'NMember:         l'sman Qaamar



-iii-
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
(Cr. 2257-PAK)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...........................................................v
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Assessment/Evaluation of Objectives ...........................................................I
B. Achievement of Objectives ...........................................................3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................................................6
D. Project Sustainability ...................                                                                                      8
E. Performance of Bank ....................9
F. Borrower Performance ...................                                                                                       10
G. Assessment of Outcome ...................                                                                                      I I
H. Future Operation ...................                                                                                           11
.. Key  Lessons Learned.. ....................I
PART II- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I Summary of Assessments .13
Table 2 Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3 Project Timetable .16
Table 4   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .17
Table 5  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .18
Table 6  Key Indicators for Project Operation .24
Table 7 Studies Included in Project .25
Table 8A    Project Costs .........................................................                                               26
Table 8B    Project Financing .........................................................                                           26
Table 9       Economic Costs and Benefits .........................................................                               27
Table 10    Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................  28
Table I1    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .........................................................               29
Table 12    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................................                                29
Table 13    Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................                                    30
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire .........................................................  31
B. Borrower's Evaluation, (with Operation Plan) and Comments on1 Draft ICR .................................. 51
C. Financial &  Economic Analysis .........................................................                                       67
D. Maps Nos. IBRD 22528, 22529, 22530. 29538, 29539
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



-lv-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITI[ON PROJECT
(Cr. 2257-PAK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second SCARP Transition Project
in Pakistan, for which Credit 2257-PAK in the amount of SDR 14.8 million (US$20 million) equivalent
was approved on July 31, 1991 and made effective on April 30, 1992. The Credit was closed on
December 31, 1997, the original closing date. Final disbursement took place on May 18, 1998, at which
time a balance of SDR 1.316 million was canceled. An amount of SDR 4.5 million equivalent was
canceled earlier on July 23, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Usman Qamar, the task team leader and reviewed by Masood
Ahmad, Michael Saddington (SASRD), and Najeeb Murtaza (SASRD/SASEN). The Borrower provided
comments that are included in Appendix B
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the final supervision and implementation completion
mission in November 1997. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR bv (a) participating in the ICR mlission; (b) contributing to the :tatistical
information in the ICR; (c) commenting on the draft ICR; and (d) preparing its own evaluation report and
a post-completion operational plan.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
(Cr. 2257-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
1.    Background. Pakistan's Irrigation system was originally built without provision for subsurface
drainage. With the expansion of the irrigation system the groundwater table rose gradually, and by the
1 950s waterlogging and salinity became wide spread in the Indus basin. To control these"twin menaces",
the government embarked upon a series of salinity control and reclamation projects (SCARPs), under
which about 12,000 tubewells were installed to lower the groundwater table. Besides providing
subsurface drainage relief, in fresh groundwater (FGW) areas, the SCARP tubewells (STWs) became an
important source of supplementary irrigation. While the SCARPs were generally successful in alleviating
waterlogging, their performance declined over time due to poor management and inadequate operation
and maintenance (O&M). Because of low cost recovery, the O&M cost became unsustainable for the
Government. The STWs pre-empted over fifty percent of the O&M budgets, resulting in under funding of
the O&M of the surface irrigation system.
2.            While the performance of SCARPs declined, their demonstrative effect resulted in a
boom of private tubewells (PTWs). Encouraged by the growth of PTWs and their ccntribution to
subsurface drainage, in early 1980s, the govemmeniL 4tupted a policy of discontinuing further public
sector investments in SCARPs and of dis-investingl the STWs in FGW areas. The dis-investment of
STWs was termed as "SCARP Transition". A small project [The SCARP Transition Pilot Project (Cr.
1603-PAK)] was initiated in 1986 covering 213 STWs of SCARP-1, in Punjab, with IDA assistance. The
pilot project was generally successful in meeting its objectives. It demonstrated that (i) it was technically,
socially, and politically feasible to close down the highly subsidized STWs, if appropriate incentives were
provided to install PTWs with preference given to small farmers; and (ii) the water table can be
maintained at appropriate levels by PTWs, even though farmers pump groundwater primarily to meet
irrigation requirements.
3.            Encouraged by the success of the pilot project, completed in June 1992, the government
decided to implement its policy of dis-investing SCARP tubewells in fresh groundwater (FGW) areas on
a larger scale. Some 1.346 STWs in Punjab and 382 STWs in Sindh were targeted for dis-investment
under the project. A feasibility study was prepared by the Ministry of Water and Power, which formed
the basis for Bank appraisal.
Project Objectives
4.            The main project objectives were to: (i) increase agricultural production; (ii) maintain an
appropriate groundwater table through PTWs; (iii) test the viability of SCARP Transition in Sindh; and
(iv) prepare a follow up program for larger scale dis-investment of STWs. These objectives were to be
met bv (i) replacement of STWs by PTWs; (ii) improvement of about 500 watercourses in Punjab; (iii)
provision of one-time financial incentives, and credit to farmers for PTWs; (iv) provision of consultants'
services to assist project implementation. hydro-geological and impact evaluation studies, and preparation
of future SCARP transition projects; and (v) training of farmers and project staff. During the mid-term
review (MTR) of the project, in line with the Bank's new water sector strategy for Pakistan, the above
Dis-investment of STWs- included (i) transfer to farmers: and (ii) replacement with PTWs.



-vi-
objectives were broadened to include equity of groundwater distribution by emphasizing farmer
participation and introducing the concept of community tubewells (CTWs) -- tubewells jointly owned by
more than 30 percent of farmers in the command area of STWs.
5.            The project objectives were clear, realistic and within the capacity of the implementing
agencies. The objectives were also directly in line with the Government's sector policies and the Bank's
sector assistance strategy for Pakistan, which, inter alia, supported transferring the responsibility for
groundwater management in fresh groundwater areas to the private sector, and to free scarce resources
for improved O&M of the irrigation/drainage system.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.     Achievement of Objectives. The project has been a success. Its physical targets have been
achieved or exceeded for all the main components, and its objectives have been achieved.
7.            The project has resulted in a substantial increase in agricultural production, although less
than assumed at appraisal. The ICR estimates are based on more conservative assumptions.
8.            Barring variations caused by unusually high rains in 1996 and 1997, the groundwater
table in the Punjab project area is generally stable and close to the pre-transition level (average depth of
about 13.5 feet). In the Sindh project area, the rising trend in the groundwater table that had developed
during 1986 - 1995, due to deterioration and closure of STWs, has been reversed by the growth of project
supported tubewells.
9.            Dis-invcstment of STWs has reduced the .ecurrent annual fiscal bur6eli VI uk&M cost of
SCARPs by about Rs i0 million in Punjab and Rs 50 million in Sindh in nominal terms. It has also
released about 60 MW of electric power in Punjab and 10 MW in Sindh for other uses in the economy.
10.          A larger follow-up project which covers most of the remaining SCARPs in Punjab [The
Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development (PPSGD) Project (Cr. 2901-PAK)] has been approved
and is under implementation. GOSindh also has prepared plans for larger scale transition.
11.   Institutional Development & Other Achievements. Besides meeting its stated agricultural,
groundwater management, and fiscal objectives, the project has also made significant contribution to
sector policies, social/equity aspects of SCARP transition and institutional development. This includes:
introduction of the concept of CTWs; discontinuation of subsidy for individually owned PTWs in canal
commanded areas in Punjab; establishment of over 2,500 potentially viable farmer organizations (FOs);
and promotion of the culture of participatory irrigation management among the implementing agencies.
12.    Project Sustainability. The benefits of the project investments in tubewells and watercourse
improvements are likely to be sustained. There are over 400,000 PTWs in Pakistan, installed, operated
and maintained by farmers. Farmers in Punjab are well farniliar with this technology and repair and
maintenance facilities are locally available. In Sindh also farmers are becoming familiar with tLbewell
technology and tubewell drilling facilities and maintenance workshops have developed. The experience
under On-Farm Water Management projects hias been that although Water User Associations (WUAs)
tend to become inactive after the watercourse has been improved. farmers continue to mainitain
watercourses through traditional informal arrangements. This problem is being addressed by establishing
FOs at the canal level.
13.          Monitoring studies including remote sensing carried out under the project have not
reported any adverse trends in soil and groundwater quality. Possible long term impact of groundwater
usage on soils (increased salinity/sodicity) and uncontrolled pumpage from the FGW  areas are being



-vii-
mitigated by implementing a program of soil and groundwater monitoring and training of FOs, as part of
the project's post-completion operation plan.  A framework  for groundwater regulation is being
developed under the PPSGD Project.
14.          The FOs established under the project are still in their infancy with most of them about
two years old. To nurture and develop them in to viable and sustainable entities, the post-completion
operations plan provides for their continued after-care and training.
15.   Project Cost, Disbursements, and Implementation Timetable. The Project was completed on
the original Credit closing date of December 31, 1997 at a cost of US$26 million (or 54 percent of the
appraisal estimate in US$ terms). The main reasons for the lower cost in US$ terms are (i) depreciation
of the Pakistani Rupee; and (ii) the change of the project emphasis from supporting PTWs to CTWs
following the MTR. Low farmer demand for institutional credit for tubewells resulted in under-
utilization of the portion of the Credit allocated to the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
(ADBP). SDR4.5 million were canceled on July 23, 1997, and a further amount of SDR 1.316 million
was canceled on May 18, 1998, after the last disbursement was made.
16.    Key Factors Affecting Achievement of Objectives. The project has achieved its objectives
largely as a result of the improvements made in design and implementation arrangements made during the
MTR. Up to mid-1994 the project performance was adversely affected by various design and
implementation issues, including adverse publicity of the project by STWs operators, who feared that
they might lose their jobs as a result of the transition; resistance by influential farmers to the closure of
STWs; delay in recruitment of project implementation assistance consultants and consequent delay in
Credit effectiveness; delay in the appointment of impact evaluation consultants, and consequently in
carrying out baseline -surveys. The MTR addressed these issues by implementing the EBank's new water
sector strategy for Pakistan. It promoted ownership of all stakeholders by incorporating measures for
establishing FOs through a structured social mobilization program, and by introducing the concept of
CTWs. This was perhaps the key factor which turned the project performance around. Other factors
which contributed to the project success included: enhanced Government commitment to the project
objectives, following the MTR; good management by implementing agencies; and effective supervision
by IDA.
17.   Bank and Borrower Performance. The Bank's performance during project preparation and
appraisal was deficient. In hindsight, the original project design had several weaknesses: the project
design did not provide for social organization and farmer outreach; the criteria set out for award of
tubewell incentives were complex and difficult to implement; the need for institutional credit for
tubewells was over-estimated; the issue of SCARP tubewell operators and other staff who were expected
to become redundant as a result of the closure of STWs was not explicitly addressed; and number of
PTWs assumed to be installed without the project were under-estimated. The Bank's performance during
supervision was, however, innovative and effective. The MTR was conducted in a fully participatory
manner involving all stakeholders, and effectively addressed project design and implementation issues.
The MTR proved to be a turning point for the project and its performance improved dramatically.
Subsequent supervisions were regular and helped to address implementation issues effectively.
18.          Performance of GOP during project preparation was deficient. GOPunjab's and
GOSindh's involvement during project preparation was limited to reviewing reports prepared by
consultants. No staff were specificallv charged with the responsibility of quality control. Performance of
GOPulljab and GOSindli during project implemenitation was satisfactory. Thev provided u.Nwavering
support to the project objectives bv. izter alia. ensuring timely release of funds; promptly making policy
decisions: and maintaining continuity of project directors. The implementing agencies generally complied
with the project covenants. GOPunjab has, however. not yet fully met the project covenant that requires
recovery of 30 percent of the cost of watercourse materials from the beneficiaries. Similarly. GOSindh



-viii-
has not yet effectively addressed the issue of iequitable distribution of canal water in the project area.
This issue is being addressed as part of the institutional reforms recently initiated under the National
Drainage Program (Cr. 2999-PAK) which include establishment of FOs at the distributary canal level.
19.    Project Outcome. The overall outco*e of the project is satisfactory. The economic rate of
return (ERR) at completion is 29 percent as compared to 24 percenit estimated at appraisal. The ERR at
completion is higher than the appraisal estimate because of lower completion cost even though the ICR
estimate is based on more conservative estimates of agricultural benefits than assumed at appraisal.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
20.    Important findings. Replacement of STWs with CT Ws results in higher economic gains and
improved equity as compared to replacement of STWs with PTWs. This is due to the higher utilization
factors of CTWs as compared to PTWs. The CTWs benefit small farmers and curb anarchical and
inefficient growth of PTWs. They also allow better management of groundwater and are likely to
facilitate groundwater regulation in the long term because of fewer control points and community
involvement.
21.           Case studies carried out under the project indicate that FOs in the following categories
have better prospects of achieving equity in water sharing arid sustainability: (a) FOs established through
proper community mobilization by trained social organizers; (b) FOs in which all member farmers
conitribute their share of the CTW cost up-front (instead of only the more affluent members bearing the
full cost initially); (c) FOs that consist of members from the same family or caste; and (d) FOs located in
areas where the canal supplies are low and there is an active dermand for groundwate .
22.    Future Operations. Both Punjab and Sindh have prepared post-completion operation plans
which include programs for monitoring of groundwater and soil, and training of FOs. If implemented
effectively, these plans should provide effective safeguards against possible adverse long term impact of
use of groundwater on soils and over-exploitation of the aquifer, and promote nurturing of the fledgling
FOs established under the project.
22.    Key Lessons Learned.
i)     GOProvinces should take the lead in the preparac:ion of provincial projects, and should
designate staff to ensure quality control and involve all stakeholders.
ii)    A  structured  social mobilization  program  and a multi-disciplinary approach to project
implementation is essential for the success of irrigated agriculture projects.
iii)    Farmer training should be an integral part of project design and initiated early in the project.
vi)    Consideration should be given to developing micro-credit to help small farmers pay Lip-front
contributions for CTWs, watercourse improvements. This would reduce their reliance oni the
more effluent members of FOs and help them attain a more equitable status withliin these
organizations.
v)     Arrangements for internal and external monitoring and impact evaluation activities should be
operationalized right from the start of the project. and quality of data collection and collation
(including establishment of a computerized data base) should be closely supervised.
vi)    Continuity of competent and motivated key project staff improves project implementation (While
this factor is generally well known, this project provides a good example).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
(Cr. 2257-PAK)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    ASSESSMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
I.    Background. Pakistan's Irrigation system was originally built without provision for
subsurface drainage. With the expansion of the irrigation system the groundwater table rose
gradually, and by the 1950s waterlogging and salinity became wide spread in the Indus basin. To
control these "twin menaces", the government embarked upon a series of salinity control and
reclamation projects (SCARPs). Over 12,000 deep tubewells were installed to lower the water
table. Besides providing subsurface drainage relief, in fresh groundwater (FGW) areas the
SCARP tubewells (STWs) became an important source of supplementary irrigation. While the
SCARPs were generally successful in alleviating waterlogging, their performance declined over
time due to poor management and inadequate O&M. Because of low cost recovery, the cost of
their operation became unsustainable for the Government. The O&M cost of STWs accounted for
over 50 percent of the annual irrigation O&1,t budget, while they provided oniv 10 percent of the
total irriga:ion supplies. Consequently, the irrigation/drainage system deteriorated over time.
2.           While the performance of SCARPs declined, their demonstrative effect resulted
in a boom of private tubewells (PTWs). Over 400,000 PTWs have been installed to date.
Encouraged by the growth of PTWs and their contribution to subsurface drainage, in early 1 980s,
the government adopted a policy of discontinuing further public sector investments in SCARPs
and of dis-investing the STWs in FGW areas. The government was, however, cautious in
implementing this policy because of three concerns: (i) the political implications of withdrawing
a major subsidy to irrigation; (ii) the possible reappearance of waterlogging in SCARP areas
following closure of STWs2; and (iii) the impact of closure of STWs on small farmers who can
not afford to install their own tubewells. Because of these concerns, a small pilot project [the
SCARP Transition Pilot Project (STPP)] was initiated in 1986 covering 213 STWs in the
Khanqah Dogran Unit of SCARP-1, in Punjab, with IDA assistance. The STPP included a
package of incentives for farmers to install PTWs, including construction of an electric grid to
provide free of cost electric hook-ups; a one time cash incentive of Rs 4,000 for installation of
PTWs with diesel prime movers; canal improvements to improve surface water supplies; and
remission of double water charges associated with STWs.
3.           The pilot project was generally successful in meeting its objectives. It
demonstrated that (i) it was technically, socially, and politically feasible to close down the highly
subsidized STWs, if appropriate incentives were provided to install PTWs with preference given
to small farmers; and (ii) the water table can be maintained at appropriate levels by PTWs, even
thougli farmers pump groundwater primarily to meet irrigation requirements. Ex-post evaluation
studies, however, indicated that there was a high growth of PTWs outside the pilot project area as
2     It was recognized that farmers generally pump for irrigation: drainage is a by-product.



2
well. This raised questions whether any government intervention was necessary and whether the
government should simply close the STWs and let the private sector replace them with PTWs.
This "do nothing" option was, however, discarded, because of three reasons: (i) a possible
political backlash due to withdrawal of subsidy to irrigation without any compensation: (ii)
possible adverse impact on small farmers who can not afford to install PTWs on their own3; and
(iii) possible adverse impact on agricultural production in case the natural growth of PTWs were
to be slower than the pace of closure of STWs.
4.      Project Objectives. The Second SCARP Transition Project was designed broadly with
similar objectives as the pilot project but with the important difference that it did not provide for
investnent in the electric grid --the highest cost component of STPP4. Based on the experience
gained from the pilot, Punjab decided to undertake dis-irivestment of STWs on a large scale.
However, Sindh decided to do a pilot project first, because of different land holding patterns and
land tenure system and historically lower growth of PTW's in Sindh (as compared to Punjab).
The main project objectives were to:
(i)    increase  agricultural  production  through  improved  and  timely  availability  of
supplementary irrigation on a financially sustainable basis;
(ii)    maintain an appropriate groundwater table through private tubewells (PTWs) replacing
the current SCARP tubewells (STWs), which are expensive to maintain and poorly
maintained;
(iii)  *test the viability of SCARP Trans tion in Sindh;
(iv)    prepare a follow  up program  for larger scale r-placement of STWs based on the
experience under the project.
5.     During the MTR of the project, the above objectives were broadened to include equity of
groundwater distribution by emphasizing farmer participation and introducing the concept of
community tubewells (CTWs) -- tubewells jointly owned by at least 30 percent of farners in the
command area of the STWs. The project objectives were to be met by implementing the
following project components: (i) replacement of STWs by PTWs/CTWs; (ii) improvement of
about 500 watercourses in Punjab5, to facilitate inter-farm distribution and sharing of water
pumped by tubewells; (iii) provision of one time financial incentives, and credit to farmers for
tubewells: (iv) provision of consultants' services to assist project implementation, hydro-
geological and impact evaluation studies, and preparation of future SCARP transition projects:
and (v) training of farmers and project staff in various fields.
6.     Evaluation of Objectives. The project objectives were clear, realistic and within the
implementation capacity of the executing agencies. The objectives were also directly in line with
the government's sector policies and the Bank's sector assistance strategy for Pakistan whicilh
inter culicl supported transferring the responsibility for groundwater management in fresh
3       in this context. physical and social constraints to the development of water market from tubewells. and the
weaknesses of credit systems targeted at small farmers were highlighted.
4       i his change retlected tarmer pref-erence Ibr tubewells with diesel engine prime movers and the need to
reduce cost.
5       In Sindh. watercourse improvements were supported outside the project through funds provided under the
IDA assisted OFWM-111 Project:



3
groundwater areas to the private sector, and freeing scarce resources for improved O&M of the
irrigation/drainage system.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.            The project's physical targets6 have been achieved or exceeded for all the main
components, and its objectives have been achieved.
8.     Increase in Agricultural Production. This objective has been met. At appraisal. it was
envisaged that the project would increase agricultural production through: (i) replacement of
STWs with PTWs that would provide more timely and reliable water supply: and (ii)
improvements of watercourse and precision land leveling, that would reduce water losses and
increase irrigation efficiencies. It was assumed that: the project would result in a higher growth of
PTWs: cropping intensities and crop yields will be higher as compared to the without project
situation; and farms not installing PTWs would have a decline in cropping intensities and crop
yields, as STWs became derelict.
9.            The project targets for closure of STWs, and their replacement by PTWs and
CTWs, watercourse improvement as well as precision land leveling (PLL) have been exceeded
(Statistical Table 5). Monitoring and evaluation studies carried out under the project, and data
collected by the ICR mission, through rapid rural appraisals, however, indicate that the growth of
PTWs installed by farmers on their own without project support, remained high in the Punjab
project area during the project implementation period. During FY91/92 to 1997/98 about 12.800
PTWs were installed in the project area without project support. The growth of PTWs in the
project area would have been even higher without the project, resulting in over-investment in
tubewells. The high growth of PTWs would have continued even with the project had the project
not been restructured at the MTR and switched from supporting PTWs to CTWs. The CTWs
suppressed the demand for PTWs. The situation in the Sindh project area is different. Only about
250 PTWs were installed by farmers on their own without project support during the 6 years of
project implementation reflecting the low historical growth due to abundance of canal water in
the head reaches of canals.
10.           The overall cropping intensity in the Punjab project area increased from  141
percent in 1992/93 (baseline) to 159 percent in 1996/97. Overall yields of major crops increased
(wheat by 7.6 percent. rice by 8.6 percent, and sugarcane by 5.4 percent). Given the high natural
growth of PTWs (unsupported by the project) part of these benefits would have accrued even
without the project7. The ICR, therefore, attributes only the production increases resulting from
watercourse improvment to the project. It is estimated that watercourse improvements carried out
under the project resulted in about 3 percent increase in cropping intensity as compared to the
without project scenario. The increases in crop yields have not been attributed to the project.
Based on these conservative assumptions the overall incremental crop production attributable to
the project in the Punjab project area is estimated at 23.000 tons for whieat. 80,000 for sugarcane.
1 7,000 tons for basmati rice. KIharif fodder 72.000 tons and Rabi fodder 113.000 tons. These
conservative estimates are less than those assumed at appraisal except for the fodder crops.
6f     As modified during the mid-term re% iec% taking into account the chanle forin PTWs to C'l-W\ s and the high
natural growkth of PT'Ws.
7      The monitoring and evaluation studies could not identify appropriate control groups.



4
11.           In the Sindh project area, the overall cropping intensity increased from  132
percent in 1992/93 to 147 percent in 1995/96. Overall yields of major crops (wheat, cotton.
sugarcane) increased by 12 to 33 percent. Given the low natural growth of PTWs in the area, it is
estimated that without the project the cropping intensities and yields of farms not installing
tubewells would have been similar to those of farms relying on canal water only. Based on the
ICR mission's field observations and data from monitoring studies, the future cropping intensity
with project is estimated to be 5 to 10 percent higher than without project. As for Punjab, no crop
yield increases have been attributed to the project. The overall incremental crop production
attributable to the project in the Sindh project area is estimated at: 5,000 tons or for wheat, 15,000
tons for sugarcane, 12,000 tons for Kharif fodder, and 25,000 tons for Rabi fodder. These are
lower than those assumed at appraisal, except for sugarcane and fodder crops.
12.    Maintaining Appropriate Groundwater Table. Barring short term variations caused
by unusually high rains in 1996 and 19978, the groundwater table in the Punjab project area is
generally stable at the pre-transition level (average depth of about 13.5 feet). In the Sindh project
area, the rising trend in the groundwater table that had developed during 1986 - 1995, due to
deterioration and closure of STWs, has been reversed by the growth of project supported
tubewells. During 1995 to 1997 the average depth of water table in the project area increased by
about one foot per year and is currently about 10.5 feet. Only 3 percent of the project area was
reported to have water table depth of 0 to 5 feet in May 1997. (These areas are located near
canals where there is high recharge and groundwater utilization is low.) Mathematical
groundwater models have been prepared for both project areas. These models have the capability
of predicting groundwater levels and quality at different levels of groundwater abstraction and
are expected to facilitate groundwate, monitoring and regulation in Lne long term.
13.    Fiscal Savings and Electric Power Released due to Closure of STWs. Closure of
STWs has reduced the recurrent annual fiscal burden of O&M cost of SCARPs by about Rs 70
million in Punjab and Rs 50 million in Sindh in nominal teims (1992 Rupees). The annual fiscal
savings are more than twice this amount if the rise in unit O&M costs of STWs and the
replacement costs avoided since the start of the project are taken into account. Thle closure of
STWs has also released about 60 MW of electric power in Flunjab and 10 MW in Sindh for other
uses in the economy.
14.    Future Project Preparation. The implementation experience and the lessons learned
have generally been incorporated in a larger follow-up project which covers most of the
remaining SCARPs in Punjab [The Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project (Cr.
2901-PAK)] implementation of which has already started. GOSindh has also prepared plans for
large-scale transition to be implemented under the National Drainage Program (Cr. 2999-PAK).
15.   Institutional Development &  Other Achievernents. Besides meeting its stated
agricultural, groundwater management, and fiscal objectives, the project also made significant
contribution to sector policies, social/equity aspects of SCARP transition and institutional
development. For example:
*  GOPunjab discontinued subsidy for the installation of individually owned PTWs in canal
X      )Due to extraordinarily high rainfall in 1996 and 1997 the xvater table rose in the Punjab project area by about
I to 4 feet. However. similar trend of water table was observed in other SCARP areas also where STFWs are
not yet dis-invested.



5
commanded areas, and GOSindh introduced a "graduated" subsidy favoring CTWs. This not
only reduced the total cost of the incentives package but also promoted formation of FOs,
comprising mainly small farmers;
* In Punjab, more than 2,200 potentially viable FOs have been established. These FOs have
established, over 2,200 CTWs, which have benefited about 35,000 farm families. The CTWs
have adequately substituted for the STWs -- more than 80 percent of the farmers who used to
receive water from STWs are the direct beneficiaries of CTWs as members of the FOs. The
main beneficiaries of the CTWs are generally small farmers -- over 85 percent of the FOs'
members have holdings less than 5 ha.
* In Sindh, about 430 potentially viable FOs have been established. These FOs have installed
about 430 CTWs, which have benefited about 5,000 farm families9. The PTWs and CTWs
have adequately substituted for the STWs -- more than 75 percent of the farmers who used to
receive water from STWs are the direct beneficiaries of PTWs or CTWs. The main
beneficiaries of the PTWs/CTWs are generally small farmers -- over 65 percent of the PTWs
owners and FOs' members have holdings less than 5 ha.
* The FOs established at the level of CTWs have the potential to act as nuclei for the
development of larger FOs at the canal command level.
* The project's success in securing stakeholders' participation has helped to promote the culture
of participatory irrigation management among the implementing agencies. The need for
social organization and community participation is now generally better recognized, and
multi-disciplinary approaches to project preparation and implementation are gradually being
mainstreamed in the development process.
- As part of the project training program 1,480 FOs in Punjab and 200 FOs in Sindh have been
trained in various fields, including book keeping, tubewell maintenance, water management,
etc.
16.    Agricultural Development Bank's (ADBP's) Performance. The need for tubewell
credit was over estimated at appraisal. Farmers demand for tubewell credits decreased as a result
of: (i) the cash incentives provided for installation of tubewells; and (ii) the change of project
emphasis from PTWs to CTWs following the MTRIO.
17.    Project Implementation Assistance Consultants and Service NGOs. Both Punjab and
Sindh employed consultants to provide project implementation assistance. The composition of the
consultants teams initially recruited had an engineering bias, and primarily provided support for
overall project management assistance, supervision of civil works for watercourse improvement,
surveys of STWs, soil surveys, hydrogeological studies, tubewell technology, environmental
studies, and staff training. At the MTR the composition of the consultants teams was changed.
Social organizers and trainers were added to the consultants team and played a key role in
mobilizing farmer support. The consultants also sub-contracted local service NGOs to help
establish FOs. The overall performance of the consultants was satisfactory. The NGOs also
')     An additional 2.600 farm families have benefited directly from PTWs. not counting farmers who buv water.
I (    Farmers pooled in the resources for CTWs and did not resort to institutional credit. Moreover. ADBP did not
develop any instruments to lend to FOs.



6
played a useful role. However, this was the first experience of the implementing agencies of
working with NGOs in the irrigated agriculture sector in Pakistan, and it took time for both
parties to adjust to a client and service provider relationship.
18.    Project Impact Evaluation Assistance. Punjab employed a consortium of consultants,
while Sindh employed a local university outfit to carry out impact evaluation studies. Due to
delays in procurement, the evaluation teams of both entities could not be fielded until late 1994,
almost three years after project commencement, thus precluding collection of accurate baseline
data. Both entities collected unmanageably large amounts of socioeconomic data, but failed to
establish appropriate computerized data bases. This made collation and analysis of data extremely
difficult. The selection of control samples was inappropriate and did not reflect the changes made
in the project during the MTR. Consequently, the ICR mission has had to rely on data collected
through rapid rural appraisals to establish the without project scenario.
19.    Capital Cost Sharing/Recovery. For watercourse improvements under the project,
farmers were to provide all skilled and unskilled labor costs up-front, and 25 percent of the cost
of construction materials in six installments over three years. The latter was increased to 30
percent subsequently, to maintain uniformity with other ongoing watercourse projects. While
contribution of skilled and unskilled labor was fully satisfactory, recovery of the installments
remained low. As of December 31, 1997, actual collections were about 55 percent of the amounts
due.
20.    Project Cost and Disbursements. The Project was co.npleted on the original Credit
,losing date of December .31, 1997 at a cost of US$26 million (or 54 percent of the appraisal
estimate in US$ terms). The main reasons for the lower cost: in US$ terms are: (i) depreciation of
the Pakistani Rupee; and (ii) reduction in the tubewells targets during the MTR resulting from the
switch over from supporting PTWs to CTWs. The latter factor also resulted in under-utilization
of the portion of the IDA Credit allocated to the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
(ADBP). SDR4.5 million were canceled on July 23, 1997, and a further amount of SDR 1.316
million was canceled on May 18, 1998 after the last disbursement was made.
21.    Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The ERR at comrpletion is estimated to be 33 percent
for Punjab. 23 percent for Sindh, and 29 percent for the overall project. These ERRs are higher
than the appraisal estimates (24 percent for Punjab, 20 percent for Sindh and 24 percent for the
overall project) even though they are based on more conservative estimates of agricultural
benefits than assumed at appraisal. The ERR at completion is higher because of the substantially
lower cost of completion and higher efficiency of CTWs as compared to PTWs (see Appendix C.
Tables 3& 4).
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
22.   Implementation Record. Until mid-1994* when the project was restructured during the
MTR and its performance turned around, the overall project implementation performance
remained poor due to various factors, including inappropriate tubewell incentives policy, lack of
arrangements for social mobilization; engineering bias of the implementation assistance
consultanits: adverse publicity of the project by STWs operators, for whom the project did not
iiclude a re-deployment plan; and resistance by influential farmers to the closure of STWs.
Overall progress was slow and there were apprehensions that: the adopted mode of transition
(replacing STWs with individually owned PTWs) was inecluitable for small farmers; the project



7
may be supporting over-investment in PTWs that have low utilization factors; and its economical
viability may be questionable, given the high growth of PTWs without project assistance.
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government or Implementing Agency Control
23.           Adverse publicity of the project by STWs operators who feared that they would
be rendered jobless by the transition, and resistance by influential farmers to the closure of STWs
contributed to overall poor implementation performance. Another factor which affected project
performance was the general law and order situation in Sindh sub-project area which prevented
free movement of staff and consultants to some of the remote areas during the early 1990s. The
situation, however, improved gradually.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
24.           Project start-up was delayed by almost one year due to delay in recruitment of
project implementation assistance consultants, which in tum delayed Credit effectiveness by
about nine months. There was also a long delav in the appointment of impact evaluation and
consequently in carrying out baseline surveys. Another factor which caused cash flow problems
was the unnecessary routing of the counter-part GOP funds for the project through WAPDA.
WAPDA charged "overheads" for "simply funneling money", invariably with delay. Long and
complex criteria and procedures for approval and disbursements of incentives for installing
tubewelis also contributed to the slow progress. Finally, farmers and FOs faced difficulties in
obtaining evidence of land titles that were required for qualifying for award of project incenti% es
from the Land Revenue Offices.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
26.           ADBP staff did not fully integrate their activities with the other project
components. The mobile credit officers did not maintain close coordination with the Project
Management Cells (PMCs) and consultants. ADBP did not develop a mechanism for lending to
FOs. As a consequence, overall progress lagged behind targets and some loans intended for the
project farmers were in fact sanctioned to farmers outside the project area. Finally, overall loan
recoveries achieved so far are only 45 percent of the amounts due. The PMCs were slow in
retrieval of STWs machinery. In some cases, delays in freeing up the STWS bore-holes delayed
installation of CTWs.  Despite low  cost recoveries, the Directorate General of Water
Management, Punjab resisted suggestions bv IDA missions to switch from the system of
collecting installments to up-front contribution, on the grounds that this change would adversely
affect implementation progress. This position was driven by the inertia of project staff who found
the existing system easier than having to convince farmers to contribute to capital cost up-front.
Recently, GOPunjab has decided to collect the back-log of cost recoverv as arrears of land
revenue. The results of the new system. however, remain to be seen.
Factors which Turned Around Project Performance
27.           To address project design and implementation issues the following adjustments
were made in the project policies and implementation approach during the MTR: (i) the concept
of CTWsIl Xvas introduced and supported by a structured program  of social organization
II     Tubewells jointlv owned by a minimum ot 3() percent ol the farmers in STFWs command area.



8
developed after testing alternative approaches; (ii) in Punjab, cash incentives were discontinued
for individually owned PTWs, and in Sindh, a graduated subsidy favoring installation of CTWs
was introduced; (iii) incentives approval criteria and disbursement procedures were simplified
and made more clear; (iv) the composition of the consultants team was made mutli-disciplinary
and their offices were shifted to the project area; (v) a structured program was initiated to
publicize the project's objectives and the concept of CTWs; (vi) the project targets for tubewells
were adjusted taking into account the natural growth of non-project supported tubewells, and the
change from individually owned PTWs to CTWs; and (vii) the government agreed on a program
for re-deploying STWs operators.
28.            The  project's  performance  turned  aroland  after the  MTR. Enthusiastic
participation of the farmers coupled with good management by the implementing agencies,
contributed to the timely completion and achievement of its objectives, despite earlier
implementation delays. The implementing agencies and farmers fully owned and supported the
introduction of participatory approach to project implementation. Overall progress improved; the
change from  PTWs to CTWs helped to spread the project incentives and benefits more
equitablyl2 and made monitoring of groundwater abstraction more manageable; introduction of
social organizers helped to establish grassroots level FOs; the government's fiscal burden of
tubewell incentives was substantially reduced; and the economic viability of the project improved
substantially. The economic rate of return of the restructured project is estimated at 29 percent as
compared to 24 percent at appraisal (see Appendix C).
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINAtBILITY
29.            The benefits of project investments in tubewells and watercourse improvements
are likely to be sustained. There are over 400,000 PTWs, in Pakistan, installed, operated and
maintained by farners. The large majority of these are shallow tubewells with locally made
centrifugal pumps and diesel fuel based prime movers (Peter Engines which became popular
during the late 1980s). Although pump efficiencies are low and routine and preventive
maintenance is often inadequate, farmers in Punjab are well familiar with this technology and
repair/maintenance and drilling facilities are locally available. In Sindh also farmers are
becoming familiar with tubewell technology. Private tubewell development in the project area has
been accompanied by growth of tubewell drilling facilities and maintenance workshops.
Similarly, although water user associations (WUAs) t:end to become inactive after the
watercourse has been improved, farmers continue to maintain watercourses through traditional
informal arrangements. This problem is being addressed by establishing canal level FOs.
30.            Monitoring studies, including remote sensiing, carried out under the project have
not reported any adverse trends in soil and groundwater quality.  However, the use of
groundwater for intensive agriculture could lead to accumulation of salts in the soil and adversely
affect productivity in the long term, unless appropriate soil and water management practices are
introduced. Major increases in groundwater abstraction froim the FGW13 areas could also lead to
12     On average a CTWs has 16 members in Punjab and 12 in Sindh.
13     Preliminarn runs of the groundwater model. developed under this project tor Sindh. indicate that: a)
groundwater pumpage from strata deeper than about 130 tfeet would result in deterioration of water qualitv:
h) pumpage from the of SGW STWs that are currently non-functional. would result in deterioration of wvater
quality in certain areas in the medium term: and c) increased pumpage from PTWs/CTWs would result in
deterioration of water quality in certain areas. For Pun jab the model predicts that a substantial increase in



9
deterioration of the groundwater quality due to intrusion of saline water from adjoining saline
pockets of saline groundwater (SGW). Continued inequitable distribution of canal water supplies
in the Sindh project area could also exacerbate this problem'4.
31.            The FOs established under the project are still in their infancy with most of them
about two years old. While most of the FOs are reported to be functioning satisfactorily, many
are reported to have social and organizational problems. Case studies carried out by the impact
evaluation consultants indicate that generally FOs are following traditional methods for
maintaining records of tubewell operations and accounts, and few are following democratic
processes in making decisions of common interest. In some FOs the executive members
(presidents and secretaries) tend to dominate and monopolize the tubewell. This is particularly
evident in those FOs where the tubewell is located on the land of one of the executive members,
and where all the members initially did not contribute their share of the cost of the tubewell. Even
if some of the FOs do not function the investment in CTWs would not be lost completely as they
are likely to continue operating as PTWs. Nonetheless, there is a clear need to continue the
ongoing after-care and training program for FOs to help ensure their sustainability. The Post-
completion Operations Plan provides for the following remedial/mitigation measures (see Annex
1):
*  physical and environmental monitoring being carried out as part of the hydrogeological
studies will continue after project implementation completion. The Punjab project area is also
a candidate for intensive monitoring that is expected to be carried out under the Punjab
Private Sector Groundwater Development (PGD) a, the first phase in the development of a
groundwater reguiatory framework for Punjab; sinilar activities will be implemented in
Sindh under the National Drainage Program.
*  the ongoing "after-care" and training program for FOs, which includes messages on soil and
water management, will continue after implementation completion;
*  as part of the Drainage Plans prepared under the project: (a) STWs and surface drainage
facilities in the saline groundwater (SGW) areas are proposed to be rehabilitated or replaced
with tile drainage facilities; (b) proper outfalls will be provided to evacuate the saline
effluent from the project area in an environmentally safe manner; and (c) inequities in canal
water supplies in the Sindh project area will be addressed by FOs to be established at the
canal level under the NDP Project.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
32.            The Bank's performance during project preparation and appraisal was deficient.
In hindsight there were several weaknesses in project design. While the lessons learned from the
SCARP Transition Pilot Project were incorporated in the project design, no provision was made
for social organization and farmer outreach (a common deficiency in "older generation" projects).
abstraction (over 15 percent) would lead to the water table declining over 20-25 feet in some areas but water
qualitv is not expected to deteriorate.
14     1 lead reaches oi canals draw more than their share. which results in higher recharge of groundwater and low
demand for groundwater water leading to low utilization of tubewells. Conversely. the tail reaches do not
receive their due share. which results in lower recharge in areas where there is a higher demand for
groundwater.



10
Similarly. while the criteria set out for award of project incentives were designed to promote
equity by giving preference to water user associations, farmer groups and small farmers, initial
implementation experience indicated that these criteria were complex and difficult to implement.
The need for tubewell credit was over-estimated. Another weak area was that the project did not
address the issue of SCARP tubewell operators and other staff who were expected to become
redundant as a result of the closure of STWs. Finally, the assumptions made in the economic
analysis about the incremental agricultural production due to the project were optimistic. The
assumption of low growth of PTWs without the project did not materialize.
33.           The Bank's performance during supervision was innovative and effective. The
MTR was conducted in a fully participatory manner involvin,g all stakeholders, and its timing was
arranged to coincide with the pre-appraisal mission for the Punjab Private Sector Groundwater
Development Project. In line with the Bank's new strategy for the water sector developed in the
early 1990s, the MTR promoted ownership of all stakeholders; supported formation of effective
FOs by evaluating various models for social mobilization; introduced the concept of jointly
owned CTWs; and addressed equity aspects of transition. The MTR proved to be a turning point
for the project and its performance improved dramatically. Subsequent supervisions were regular
and helped to address implementation issues effectively. The only weak area was that supervision
missions failed to improve the quality of the impact evaluation studies.
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.           Performance of GOP during project preparation was deficient. Surveys carried
out during project iruiplementation indicate that tne reasibility report for the projeci may have
under estimated the number of existing private tubewells in the project area, suggesting that
supervision of project preparation was deficient. GOPunjab's and GOSindh's involvement during
project preparation was limited to reviewing reports prepared by consultants. No staff were
specifically charged with the responsibility of quality controlling during project preparation.
35.           Performance of GOPunjab and GOSindh during project implementation was
satisfactory. They provided full commitment and unwavering support to the project objectives by,
inter alia. ensuring timely release of funds; promptly approving the innovative changes suggested
during the MTR; discontinuing subsidy for individually owned PTWs (in Punjab); introducing a
graduated subsidy (in Sindh) and adjusting the incentives package; and maintaining continuity of
project directors.
36.           However. GOPunjab has not yet fully met the project covenant that requires
recovery of 30 percent of the cost of watercourse materials from the beneficiaries. Only 55
percent of the amounts due had been collected as of December 3 1, 1997. GOPunjab has recently
decided to collect the back-log of cost recovery as arrears of land revenue. The results of the new
system. however, remain to be seen. Similarly, GOSindh could not effectively address the issue
of iiequitable distribution of canal water in the project area. This issue is now being addressed
under the National Drainage Program by establishing FOs at the canal level.
37.           GOP's role during the implementation of the project was Imnited to allocation and
release of federal funds through WAPDA. Because of various reasons. release of funds bv
WAPDA \r.as otten delayed. Thanks to the timely release ot funds bv GOPunjab and GOSildh
the project did not suffer serious cash flow problems.



11
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
38.           The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The physical targets of all
major components have been met or exceeded, and major objectives have been met. At appraisal,
ERRs were estimated at 24 percent for the Punjab subproject, 20 percent for the Sindh subproject
and 24 percent for the overall project. At completion, the ERRs are estimated to be 33 percent
for Punjab, 23 percent for Sindh, and 29 percent for the overall project. Due to lower completion
cost, and higher efficiency of CTWs as compared to PTWs the economic rate of return at
completion is higher than at appraisal even though the ICR has used more conservative estimates
of agricultural benefits.
H.    FUTURE OPERATION
39.           The borrower, with inputs from IDA, has prepared Post Completion Operation
Plans (PCOPs) for the project. FOs and individuals farmers will be responsible for the operation
and maintenance of watercourses improved and the tubewells installed under the project.
However, the Government will continue physical and environmental monitoring in the project
area after implementation completion. It will also continue the FO after-care & training program
for a period of about two years to help ensure the sustainability of the FOs ( Appendix B).
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
40.           Key lessons learned from the project which are relevant for future operations are:
i)     GOProvinces should take the lead in the preparation of provincial projects, and should
designate staff for ensuring quality control and involvement of all stakeholders.
ii)    A structured social mobilization program and a multi-disciplinary approach to project
implementation is essential for the success of irrigated agriculture projects.
iii)    Farmer Training should be an integral part of project design and should be initiated early
in the project. The quality of social organization to a large extent determines the quality
of FOs.
iv)    Appropriate steps should be taken to remove difficulties which farmers face in obtaining
evidence of land titles (This issue is being addressed under the proposed Agriculture
Sector Investment Project).
v)     Consideration should be given to developing micro-credit to help small farmers pay up-
front contributions for CTWs and watercourse improvements. This would reduce their
reliance on the more effluent members of FOs and help them attain a more equitable
status within these organizations.
vi)    Arrangements for internal and external monitoring and impact evaluation activities
should be operationalized right from the start of the project, and quality of data collection
and collation (including establishment of a computerized data base) should be closely
supervised.
vii)   Federal budgetary allocations for provincial projects should be released directly to the
province:
viii)   Continuity  of competent and  motivated  key  project staff  improves  project
implementation (While this factor is generallv well klnown, this project provides a good
example).



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
(Cr. 2257-PAK)
Part II - Statistical Tables



13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial      Partial       Negligibl     Not applicable
Macro Policies                                                                  0
Sector Policies                  0
Financial Objectives             0
Institutional Development        0
Physical Objectives              0
Poverty Reduction                               0
Gender Issues                                                                   0
Other Social Objectives          0
Environmental Objectives         0l
Public Sector Management         0
Private Sector Development       0
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability           Likely               Unlikely               Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory        Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                                          0
Preparation Assistance                                  i
Appraisal                                                                       0
Supervision                      E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                   satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation
Implementation                                          0
Covenant Compliance                                      E
Operation (if applicable)                                0
E. Assessment of Outcome           Highly                                        Highly
satisfactorv  Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactorv
..        z..                              .



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credit
Loan/Credit Title          Purpose                   Year of  Status
approval
Proceedings Operations
I 1.  Khairpur Tile Drainage  Tile drainage and irrigation    1976  PCR No. 7806, June
and Irrigated Farming   development. Pilot project of     1989
Development Project    14,600 ha of tile drainage.
(Cr. 648-PAK)
12.   Salinity Control and  Control of Salinity and    1977     PCR NO. 12889. Mar
Reclamation Project    waterlogging. Use of               1997
(SCARP) VI [Cr. 877-  evaporation ponds for saline
PAK)                  effluent disposal.
3.   Salinity Control and  To increase agricultural   1979     PCR No. 12890, Mar
Reclamation Project    production through drainage        1994
(SCARP) Mardan [Cr.  of waterlogged lands and
877-PAK)              reclaim marginally
productive and/or abandoned
land, along with increasing
on-farm water management
efficiencv.
4.   On-:8arm Water        To increase agricultural   1981     PCR NO. 7309, Jun 1988
Management (OFWM)  production by improved
Project (Cr. 1163-PAK) management of water saved
through watercourse
renovation and cleaning and
related measures in the four
provinces.
5.  Irrigation systems     To increase agricultural  1982      PCR No. 8794. June
Rehabilitation Project   production by improved           1990
(Cr. 1239-PAK)        reliability and distribution of
water supplies, reduce crop
losses from rain flooding,
and strengthen PIDs O&M
capability.
6.   Balochistan Minor     To improve Balochistan's    1982    PCR NO. 13494. Sep
Irrigation and        minor irrigation.                   1994
agriculture
Development Project
(Cr. 1243-PAK)



15
7.   Fourth Drainage      To alleviate surface flooding   1983    PCR No. 14558. June
Project (Cr. 1375-PAK) and facilitate field drainage.    1996
8.  Command Water          To increase agricultural  1984    PCR NO. 13428. Aug
Management Project    production through improved        1994
(Cr. 1487-PAK)        water management, along
with supplying agricultural
services and non-water
inputs in seven subproject
areas totaling 510,000 ac
located in all four provinces.
9.   Left Bank Outfall     To provide an ultimate outlet  1984    December 1997. ICR
Drain - Stage I Project  to the sea for drainage         under preparation
(Cr. 1532-PAK)        effluent from irrigated areas
of the Lower Indus Basin.
10. Second On-Farm Water To consolidate gains        1985    PCR NO. 11875. May
Management Project    achieved under Cr. 1163-           1993
(Cr. 1603-PAK)        PAK and improve OFWM
programs in the four
provinces to enable them to
realize their potential.
11. SCARP Transition      Testi ag transfer modes of  1986    PCR No. 11992. Jun 1993
Pilot Project (Cr. 1693-  public tubewell operation in
PAK)                  fresh groundwater areas to
private ownership and
operation.
12. Agriculture Sector    To promote competitive      1988    PCR NO. 11225, Oct
Adjustment Loan       agriculture and enhance            1992
(Ln.2986-Pak)         sustainable productivity and
growth.
13. Private Tubewell      To test viability of an    1989    ICR No. 15440. March
Development (Cr.     integrated private tubewell         1995
2004-PAK)             development program for
increased agricultural
production in fresh
groundwater areas.
14. Third On-Farm Water   To increase agricultural   1991    ICR No. 16334. June 1997
Management Project    production bv effective use
(Ln. 3327-PAK. Cr.    of water saved through
2245-PAK)             renovation of watercourses
and related measures in
irrigated as well as barani
areas of the four provinces.
FATA and FANA.



16
Following Operations
1.   Fordwah Eastern        To increase agricultural    1992    On-going, Closing date
Sadiqia Irrigation and    productivity and income by        June 1999
Drainage Project (Cr.   improving reliability of water
241 0-PAK)             supplies and surface drainage
and reduce the need for
subsurface drainage.
2.   Balochistan            Develop efficient sustainable  1995    On-going, Closing date
Community Irrigation    minor irrigation.                   June 2001
and Agriculture Project
(Cr. 2780-PAK)
3.   Punjab Private Sector   To increase the scope and   1996    On-going, Closing date
Groundwater            productivity of Punjab's             December 31. 2001
Development Project   irrigation and drainage sub-
(Cr. 2901 -PAK)        sectors and increase farmers'
incomes.
4.   National Drainage      Rehabilitation of Canals left  1997    Ongoing, Closing date
Program (Cr. 2999-     over from ISRP-II.                   December 2004
PAK)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Plianned      |     Date Actual
Identification / Preparation                                     January 1990
Appraisal                                                        June 28, 1990
Board Presentation                                               June 4, 1991
Signing                                                          July 31. 1991
Effectiveness                              October 31, 1991      April 30. 1992
Midterm Review                             December 1993         July 1994
Amendment of DCA                                                 October 21. 1996
Project Completion                         December 31. 1997    December 3 1. 1997
Credit Closing                             December 31. 1997    December 31. 1997
Note:  The identification/preparation activities were undertaken as palt of supervision activities for
ongoing projects at that time.



17
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
Description       FY-92   FY-93   FY-94   FY-95  FY-96   FY-97   FY-98
Appraisal estimate    0.41   3.53     7.00   11.50   15.60     19.60    20.00
Revised estimate    0.70     1.79     3.07    4.54    7.55     10.27    12.82
Actual              0.70     1.79     3.07    4.54    7.55     10.27    12.82
Actual as % of       100      100      100     100     100      100      100
revised estimate



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Punjab Sub Project
Performance Indicators
Position as of December 31, 1997
Sr   Item                                   Project        Provision Utilized
No                                          Cost
Extent    Percentage
(A)  Implementation Period (Months)              66           66              100
(B)  Financial                                 Rs. M.       Rs. M.
1. Project Cost & Expenditure            738.3    |  738.3             100
2. IDA Credit Utilization (US$ M)                      11.5
3. Payment of TWs Incentives               150         145              97
4. Reduction in O&M Expenditure of STWs (Rs. Million)
Fiscal Year ending June 30
1992    1993  - 1994    1995   1996    1997
(a) STWs in operation(No:)          1870    1572    1227    846    260        126
(b) Budget Allocation               73.5    74.70    109.4   90.0   86.5    6.41
(c) Expenditure:
(i) Electricity             63.24   69.45    92.80   69.3   56.3       5.29
Charges
(ii) Other Charges           11.16    12.25    16.40    19.6    8.8    0.89
Total (c)             74.4    81.7    109.2   88.9   65.1    6.18
(d) Variation compared with          --     +7.3    27.5   -20.2  -23.8    - 58.9
previous year
(e) Accumulated variation            =      +7.3    +34.8  + 14.5   -9.3   -68.22



19
(C) Reduction in Electric Load Due to Closure of STWs
Year ending June 30
1992     1993     1994  1 1995   1996    1997
(a) STWs in operation (No:)*             1,870    1,572    1,227    846    260    126
(b) Actual load (MWs)                    63.6     53.4    41.7    28.8    8.8    4.3
(c) Load reduction year to year (MWs)     --       10.2    11.7    12.9   20.0    4.5
(d) Accumulative reduction (MWs)          --       10.2    21.9    34.8    54.8   59.3
* Including operational drainage S7TWs of the Project Area
(D) Physical Progress
Sr   Activity                               Project    Achievement up to 30.12.97
No                                          Target                                             l
Extent      % of Target
I .   Closure of STWs (Nos)                 1,346      1,478       110
2.   Installation of PTWs (Nos)             2,600      2,688        103
3.   Installation of CTWs (Nos)             2,100      2,210        105
4.   Training and After Care of FOs         2,100       1,481      71
5.   Improvement of Watercourses (Nos)      500        540          108
6.    Hydrogeological Studies(Percentage)   100         100         100



20
(E) Project Impact
Sr  Indicator                         Pre-Project    Base Line       Crop Year   Crop Year
No  __1988-89                                        (1993-94)        1994/95       1995/96
1.   Average Depth to Water Table
____  (Feet)                              14.02         14.09           14.57      14.99
2.   Annual Pumpage (MAF)                 2.06          2.30            2.24       2.3
3.   Quality of Shallow Groundwater                                                         l
(% age of Project Area)
(i) Fresh                                          78.0           73.5          74.0
(ii) Marginal                       NA             13.0           18.5         21.7
(iii) Hazardous                                    9.0             8.0          4.2
4.   Annual Utilization Factor
(Percentage)
(i) PTWs                             15            19.2            17.5         16.9
(ii) CTWs                                          22.3           23.2          30.0
5.   Performance of FOs (Percentage)
(A) Successful                                     NA              33           40
(B) Semi Successful                                                50           40
(C) With Problems                                                  17           20
6.   Equity of Access to Groundwater 1/   100            65              75           80
(Percentage of farms getting GW to
total farms)                                                _
7.   Surface Soil Salinity 1/
(Percentage of Project Area) with
_   "normal" soil quality.          71.2           96.0           96.7          96.5
8.   ERR                                  24%                                        33%
1/ Based on farmer interviews
Source: PMC, Supervisory Consultants, and Impact Evaluation Consultants



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Sindh Sub Project
Performance Indicators
As of December 31, 1997
Sr.  Items                                      Project   Utilization
No.                                             Cost
Extent    Percentage
(A)   Project Implementation Period (Months)       66         66               100
(B)   Financial                                   180.3      180.3             100
1. Project Cost & expenditure (M.Rs.)
2. IDA Credit Utilization (US$ M)                      1.85
2. Payment of TWs incentives (Rs M)         35.3       32.1              91
(a) For PTWs                                21        20.5              98
(b) For CTWs                                14.3      11.6              81
4. Reduction in O&M Expenditure         Expenditure for Fiscal Year
of STWs (M Rs.)
92/93    93194      94/95      95/96     96/97
(a) Actual Expenditure/Allocation  71.4     51.4       42.4      34.9       23.5
(b) Reduction compared with        -        19.9       9.1        7.4        11.5
previous year
(c) Accumulated reduction                  I19.9       29.0      36.4        48
(C)   Reduction in Electric Load due to   1992  1993     1994     1995     1996     1997
closure of STWs
a) STWs in operation (Nos)        533      457      381      241      123      123
a/
b) Actual load (MWs)              10.7     9.1      7.6      4.8      2.5      2.5
c) reduction compared with         -       1.6      1.5      2.8      2.3
previous year (MWs)
d) Accum. Reduction (MWs)                  1.6      3.1      5.9      8.2      8.2



22
(D) Physical Progress
Sr.    Activity                                     Projecit              Achievement Up to
No.                                                Target                  December 31, 1997
Extent     % of
Target
I.     Closure of STWs (Nos)                              382                   382         100
2.     PTWs Installed on Joint /Individual basis          1312                  1363         104
(Nos)
3.     CTWs Installed on Community Basis (Nos)            477                    428          90
4.     Overall Installation of PTW/CTWs                   1789                  1791         100
5.     Training of COs/FOs                         Ongoing Activity
6.     After Care Visits of COs/FOs                Ongoing Activity
7.     Improvement of Watercourses (Nos) b/                100 jj62                           62
8.     Hydrological Studies                        Monitoring of                             100
various components c/
b/     Improved under the OFWM-Ill Project
c/     Depth of water table; Quality of Groundwater; mathematical Modelling; Soil Investigation; Satellite Imagery,
etc.
(E) Project Impact
Sr.    Indicator                                             Position as of    Remarks
No.                                                          Dec.31. 1997
1.     Average Depth of water table
(Feet):
Feasibility (!988-89)                         9.62               10.9
Pre-Project(1992-93)                         11.86
2.      Annual Pumpage (MAF)                     (1988-89)
Feasibility 0.29           0.212
3.      Annual Utilisation Factor for            (1988-89)
Diesel Operated PTWs (%)                 Feasibility         15 to 20
16.6



23
Sr.    Indicator                                   Pre-          Position    Remarks
No.                                                Project       as of
1992-93      12/31/97
4.      Performance of FOs (%) c/                                             Not applicable (NA)
A) Satisfactory to Progressive                                   15
B) Satisfactory                                                  73
C) with some problems                                            12
5.      Equity of Access to Groundwater
(CTWs/PTWs beneficiaries as a                      NA            75
percentage of farmers who were getting
STWs water)
6.      Surface Soil salinity                          1988-89     1994-95
(percentage of Project Area)                 Feasibility
i) Non-saline                                     76 %16        NA
ii) Saline                                        24 %          NA
I I    ERR                                         20% a/      23%  b/
aI SAR estimate
b/ ICR estimate
c/ As classified by PIA zonsultants
Source: PMC. Supervisory Consultants. and Impact Evaluation Consultants: (Impact intormation furnished by Project
Impact Evaluation Consultant's U/S SDSC)



24
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating indicators in                            None
SAR/Presidents Report
II. Retrofitted indicators
A.. Monitoring of Groundwater  * monitor water table, water quality, and soil salinity, etc.
table and Quality,         * continue operation and calibration of the hydrogeological
application and use of        model
Groundwater Model, and     * continue the impact surveys (Rabbi/Kharif) by monitoring key
impact evaluation surveys     crop yields, cropping intensities, etc.
C.  Training and after-care of Training of farmers and FOs in:
FOs
* book keeping
* good agronomic practices to increase productivity
* soil/water management practices,
* Tubewell O&M
* identification of local activists, to help resolve intra-FO
disputes and assistance to FOs in transferring the CTW land
titles
* provide iegal cover to FOs, by helping them to register under
the PIDA Acts.
* involvement of FOs in cleveloping framework for groundwater
regulation.
D. O&M of Improved             Monitoring of FOs' performance in O&M of the watercourses
Watercourse                    improved under the project



25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Sr.       Study      STATUS                  Purpose as defined at                  Impact of Study
I                       Appraisal/Redefined
I  Monitoring and   Completed    Monitor project impact on agricultural    Because of difficulties in
fImpact                        production, small farmers, groundwater    identifying appropriate control
Evaluation Study               table and quality, budgetary burden of  group and failure to set up an
O&M of STWs, sustainability of          appropriate computerized data
groundwater use; appropriateness of     base, the full benefit of the
project's incentives package, effectiveness  studies could not be realized.
of credit delivery to small farmers; assess   Useful feed back was however,
sustainability of FOs; and draw lessons for  provided by case studies on FOs.
future operations.
2   Environmental   Completed    Evaluate environmental impact of activities
Impact                         conducted under the project.
Assessment
3   Hydrogeologi-   Completed    To monitor changes in groundwater regime Very useful in generating
cal, soil studies              as a request of transition, monitor soil  extension messages for use in
and remote                     quality and suggest remedial measures for  farmer training and after-care.
sensing.                       any adverse trends.                     The groundwater model
developed can be used to
simulate the existing
Groundwater conditions and
future behavior of the aquifer. It
can be adapted for other areas



26
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (USS    Actual/latest estimate (US$
million)            million)
Local    Foreign               Local    Foreign
Item                 costs     costs      Total     costs     costs       Total
1. PTWs (Including Installation)    7.74     18.39      26.13      3.04       7.24       10.28
2. Watercourse Improvement          8.27       0.65      8.92       8.08      0.62        8.70
3. Project Implementation           1.43         0       1.43      3.75       0.07        3.82
Assistance
4. Groundwater/Future SCARP
Transition Studies                1.16      0.29       1.45         0         0           0
5. Project Impact Evaluation        0.28      0.05       0.33      0.56       0.10        0.66
6. Project Management               0.80         0       0.80      2.01          0        2.01
8.Training                          0.04         0       0.04      0.01       0.06        0.07
9. Equipment and Vehicles           0.71       0.13      0.84      0.39       0.07        0.46
Total Base Cost                    20.43      19.51     39.94      17.84      8.16       26.00
Physical Contingencies              0.38      0.04       0.42         0         0            0
Price Contingencies                 ' '2      3.98       8.10         0         0            0
Total Project Cost                 24.93     23.53      48.46      17.84      8.16       26.00
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$          Actual (US$ million)
million)
Source                          Total                           Total
I. IDA                                     20.00                            12.82
2. Government of                            15.83                           7.85
Pakistan/Province
3. Farmers (Cash)                           10.03                            1.8
4. Farmers (Labor)                           2.6                            3.53
Total                                      48.46                           26.00



27
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
A. Direct Benefits                         Punjab                          Sindh
SAR             ICR             SAR             ICR
No. of benefited families      80,000          72,500          4,600           8,400
Benefited areas (Acres)        1,025,465       1,025,465       311,346         3 11,346
Incremental Production (000 tons)
Rice Basmati                         46               17 7
Cotton                                -               -              6                5
Wheat                                65              23              8                5
Fodder (kharif)                      41              72              2                12
Fodder(rabi)                         85              113             6               25
Sugarcane                           502              80              6                15
B. Economic Benefits           ERR (percent) Appraisal Estimate  ERR (percent) ICR Estimate
a. Punjab sub project
-- Original Project design (STWs             24                              23
replaced with PTWs)
-- Restructured project as                  NA                               33
completed (STWs replaced with
PTWs and CTWs)
b. Sindhi sub-project
-- Original Project design (STWs             20                              21
replaced with PTWs)
-- Restructured project as                  NA                               23
completed (STWs replaced
with PTWs and CTWs)
c. Overall Project                           24                              29
Assumptions                                 SAR                             ICR
Project Life (Years)                         20                             20
Incremental Cropping Intensity            Punjab 6                        Punjab 3
(percent)                                  Sindh 9                       Sindh 5-10
Incremental crop yields                 Punjab 9 to 12                      Nil
(percent)                               Sindh 7 to 10                       Nil
C. Financial Impact                  Appraisal Estimates                    ICR
Reduction in O&M of STWs (Rs)     Punjab 134 M, Sindh 34 M     Punjab 70 M, Sindh 48 M
Expenditure on TW incentives      Punjab 224 M, Sindh 29 M     Punjab 150 M, Sindh 35 M



28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section         Covenant   Present   Original           Revised        Description of covenant                    Comments
type         status      fulfillment    fulfillment
.___________  __________   __________   ________   date  date
ADBP          Sch.on        05           C                                         ADBP to post statf in project area and     OK
Project       Imp-                                                                 facilitate provision of Agriculture Passbooks.
Agreement    lementation
Program
2.06         12           C           12131/1993                    ADBP to Jointly review with IDA. appraisal   OK
mnd lending standards under the project.
DCA           3.01 (a)(ii)   05          C           04/30/1992                    GOProvinces to enter into agreements with  OK
'WAPDA to reserve the power released by
SCARP tubewells for PTWs.
3.02         05,09        CD          04/30/1992                    GOProvinces to recruit consultants for     OK
project implementation and impact
evaluation.
3.04(a)      09           CD          12/31/1993     06/30/1994    GOProvinces and ADBP to carry out a Mid-   MTR was
Term Review (MTR).                         carried out in
July 1994.
3.04(b)      09           CD          12/31/1992                    GOProvinces to submit TOR for MTR.         TOR
submitted in
.________  ._________  ________   ___________                    M ay     1994.
4.01(b)      01           C           03/31/1993                    Maintain financial records and fumish audit   OK
l eports
Project       3.02          10           C           07/31/1991                    GOProvinces to offer incentives for PTW    Punjab
Agreement                                                                          development and thereafter review annually   increased to
with IDA.                                  Rs3O,ind   and
Sindh
introduced a
graauated
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ sus u b sid y
Sch. 112(a)   10          C                                         Punjab to follow agreed criteria for selecting   OK
watercourses to be improved.
3.04         Ii           CP                                        GOProvinces to allocate adequate funds to  OK For
O&M of saline STWs.                        FY97/98 for,
Punjab's
Sindh's short
of the
.______________________________________  requirements.
3.05         10           C                                         GOProvinces to give priority to improving  OK.
surface water supplies in areas where STWs
are main source of ifrigation.
Sch. 112(c)   05          C           12/31/1993                   G3OProvinces to prepare training program    OK. A
program for
training FO
also
L____________                               implemented.
Sch.IIA(5)   05           C                                         GOProvinces to maintain project            Ok.
coordination & policy committees.
3.06         02           CP                                        Punjab to recover 30% of cost of watercourse  Some
materials according to agreed schedule.    improvement
but about Rs
8 million of
remain to be
recovered.
Covenant Type 1- - Accounts/Audit: 2 - Financial performance: 3 - Flow and Utilization ot' project funds: 4 - Counterpart funding: 5 -
Management aspects of the project: 6 - Environmental covenants: 7 - Involuntary resettlement: 8 - Indigenous people: 9 - Monitoring. review and
reporting: I0 - Implementation: I I - Resource allocation: 12 - Regulatory/institutional acti,on: and 13 - Other
Status: C - Complied with: CD - Compliance after Delay: NC - Not Complied with: SOON - (Compliance Expected in Rcasonahly Short Time:
('I' - Complied with Partially: NYD - Not Yet Due



29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title       I  Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No deviations from applicable operational manual statements were noted.                 J
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (As of May 15, 1998)
Planned              Revised              Actual 1/
Stage of                                                      Staff   (000)
project cycle       Weeks       US$       Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$
Preparation to appraisal      NA         NA        NA         NA         33.1      120.7
Appraisal                     NA         NA         NA        NA         83.9      197.5
Negotiations to Board         NA         NA         NA        NA          9.1       24.8
Supervision                   NA         NA        NA         NA        106.2      167.8
Completion                   23.5       46.6       26.6       37.7        3.2       10.2
Total                        NA         NA        NA         NA    235.5         521.0
1/ As of May 22, 1998



30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating    _
Stage of project    Month/       Number    Days in   Specialized    Imple-      Develop-   Type of
cycle               year         of persons  field    staff slcills  mentation  ment       problem
status    objective
Through appraisal    June 1990       4         20       EC, IE,FA        -          -
Appraisal through
Board approval
Supervision         Sep 1992         4         13      IE,EC, DA,        2          1         M, F
OA
Apr 1993         1         13           IE           2          1          F
Oct 1993         2         17         IE,Agr         2          1         F. FC
Jul 1994         2         18         IE,SO          S          S        M. FC
Nov 1994         1         10           IE           S          S        M. FC
Jul 1995         5         12       IE,SO,EC         S          S          FC
Feb 1996         2         14         lE,SO          S          S          FC
Oct 1996         3         18       IE,PA.DA         S          S          FC
May 1997         5         19    IE,PA,DA,A          S          S       FC, M&E
(GR
Completion          Nov 1997         7         18       IE,CO,EC,        S          S       FC, M&E
DA, AGR.
PA., ES
I/ Staff Specialization:
IE: Irrigation Engineer. CO: Consultant, EC: Economist, AGR: Agronomist EC: Economist; OA: Operations
Assistant, DA: Disbursement Analyst, PA: Procurement Analyst, SO: Sociologist, ES: Environment Specialist. FA:
Financial Analyst
2/ Performance ratings based on Bank Implementation summary Form 590
3/ Type of problems: T: Technical; M: Managerial, F: Financial, M&E: Monitoring and evaluation. FC: Financial
Covenants



31
Appendix A
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
(Punjab)
(Cr. 2257-PAK)
Implementation Completion Mission
October 27-November 6, 1997
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1          An IDA mission comprising Usman Qamar, A. Z. Durrani, Akmal Siddiq, A. lqbal, Riaz
Mahmood, and Sardar Riaz Khan visited Punjab from October 27to November 6, 1997 to carry out the
final supervision and initiate preparation of the implementation completion report for this project. The
main objectives of the mission were to: (i) review overall progress and agree on measures for timely
completion and fulfillment of project objectives; (ii) review outputs of impact evaluation studies, and
update key performance indicators: and (iii) initiate preparation of the project's implementation
completion report (ICR).
1.2          The mission discussed the project objectives, implementation experience, outcome,
lessons learned, and the post-completion operation plan (Annex 1) with officials of the Irrigation,
Finance, and Planning and Development Department, and the Directorate General of Water Management
(DGWM). The mission spent three days in the field and discussed aspects relating to the project's
outcome and its impact with Farmer Organizations and individual farmers. The mission also provided
guidance to the implementing agencies for the preparation of the borrowers evaluation report on the
project (Annex 2). Finally, the mission agreed with the Project Director (PD PMC), the Director General
Water Management, and the project implementation assistance (PIA) consultants on various.actions
required to be completed before December 31, 1997, the Credit closing date. A partial list of persons met
is given in Annex 4. The mission is grateful and wishes to thank all the officials. consultants, and FOs
met for their cooperation, courtesies, and hospitality.
1.3          A draft aide-memoire. summarizing the views of the mission, the borrower, the
implementing agencies was discussed at a wrap-up held in the Planning and Development (P&D)
Department on November 6, 1997. This aide-memoire incorporates the main pints made during the
wrap-up meeting. It is organized as follows:
Section I  : Introduction
Section 11  : The Project Objectives and Main Componients
Section III: Mission Findings
Section IV  : Next Steps and ICR Timetable
Section V   Supervision Aspects: Actions Required
Annex I   : Post-Completion Operation Plan
Annex '   : (uidance for Preparation of Borros~er's Evaluation Report
Annex 3    Performance lndicators
Annex 4         : List of Persons Met



32
1.4          The mission's views presented here are subject to confirmation by IDA management.
II. THE PROJECT
2.1    Project Preparation. The project was prepared by the lMinistry of Water and Power using
project preparation funds provided under the Second Irrigation System Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1888-
PAK).
Project Objectives
2.2           The main objectives of the project were to: (i) increase agricultural production through
improved and timely availability of supplementary irrigation on a financially sustainable basis; (ii)
maintain an appropriate groundwater table through private tubewells (PTWs), replacing the current
SCARP tubewells (STWs), which are expensive to maintain ancd poorly maintained; (iii) test the viability
of SCARP Transition in Sindh; and (iv) prepare a follow up pro,gram for larger scale replacement of
STWs based on the experience under the project.
2.3    Project Components. The project covers 0.45 m ha in' the SCARP-I area in Punjab. The main
components were: (i) replacement of about 1,346 STWs by PTWhs; (ii) improvement of about 500
watercourses, to facilitate inter-farm distribution and sharing of water pumped by PTWs; (iii) provision
of one time financial incentives, and credit to farmers for PTWs; (iv) provision of consultants' services to
assist project implementation, hydro-geological and impact evaluation studies, and preparation of future
SCARP transition projects; and (v) training of farmers and project staff in various fields.
2.4    Project Cost and Financing. The project cost including physical and price contingencies was
estimated at US$39.7 million, including a foreign exchange component of US$18.8 million. The project
was to be financed by an IDA Credit of SDR14.8 million (US$20 million equivalent, with approximately
US$16.2 million for Punjab). GOP/GOPunjab were to contribute US$10.99 million and farmers US$12.5
million equivalent. The IDA Credit was signed on July 31, 199 1, became effective on April 30, 1992 and
is due to close on December 31, 1997.
III. MISSION FINDINGS
3.1    Evaluation of Objectives. The project objectives were clear and realistic being similar to those
of the SCARP Transition Pilot Project (Cr. 1639-PAK), which was successfully completed on June 30,
1992. The Pilot project had demonstrated that (i) it was technically, socially, and politically feasible to
close down the highly subsidized STWs if appropriate incentives were provided to install PTWs and
preference given to small farmers; and (ii) the water table can be maintained at appropriate levels by
PTWs even though farmers pump groundwater primarily to meet irrigation requirements. The Second
SCARP Transition project's objectives were directly in line with the Government's sector policies and the
Bank's sector assistance strategy for Pakistan which, inter alia aimed at transferring the responsibility for
groundwater management in fresh groundwater areas to the private sector and freeing scarce resources
for improved operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation drainage system. The
irrigation/drainage system had deteriorated over time due to various reasons. including inadequate
availability of O&M funds, a disproportionately high share (about 50 percent) of which wvas being pre-
empted by the STWs. whiich provided less than 10 percent of the irrigation supplies.
3.2           Several covenants were included to support the project objectives. These included:
periodic review of the adequacy of the project's incentives package. carrying out of hydrogeological and
environimental monitoring studies, including preparation of a groundwater model and a drainage plan for



33
the SGW areas; and provision of adequate funding for the O&M of STWs and surface drainage facilities
in saline groundwater (SGW) areas.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.3    Achievement of Objectives. The project's physical targets, as modified during the mid-term
review (MTR), have been achieved or exceeded for all the main components, and its objectives have been
substantially achieved. About 1,478 STWs in the fresh and marginal groundwater areas have been closed
and replaced by PTWs and community tubewells (CTWs) of equivalent capacity; over 500 watercourses
have been improved and the associated sub-components of precision land leveling, demonstration plots
have been completed.
3.4            Results of monitoring and evaluation studies indicate that:
* Agricultural production in the project area has increased 15. Overall cropping intensity has increased,
yields of major crops have increased, and there is some shift towards higher value crops (e.g.
vegetables);
* barring short term variations caused by unusually high rains in 1996 and 1997, the groundwater table
is generally stable at the pre-transition level (average depth of about 14 feet);
* The closure of STWs has released about 59 MW of electric power for other uses in the economy, and
has reduced the fiscal burden of O&M cost of SCARPs by about Rs 70 million per annum in nominal
terms. The actual fiscal savings are higher if the rise i uii..,. O&M costs of STW and the repllacement
costs avoided since the start of the project are taken into account.
3.5           The implementation experience and the lessons learned have generally been incorporated
in a larger follow-up project which covers all the remaining SCARPs in Punjab [The Punjab Private
Sector Groundwater Development Project (Cr. 290 1-PAK)] implementation of which has already started.
3.6           Besides meeting its stated agricultural, groundwater management, and fiscal objectives,
the project has also made significant contribution to sector policies, social/equity aspects of SCARP
transition and institutional development. During the MTR the concept of Community tubewells was
introduced. This change was made with the view to: spread the project incentives and benefits more
equitably and transparently amongst farmers; make the project approach more multi-disciplinary; reduce
the total cost of the incentives; and establish grass root level farmer organizations (FOs) that could act as
nuclei for developing viable and sustainable FOs at the canal level in the medium term. These additional
objectives have also been substantially met:
* GOPunjab has discontinued subsidy for the installation of individually owned PTWs in canal
commanded areas. This has not only reduced the total cost of the incentives package but also
promoted formation of FOs;
* More than 2,200 potentially viable FOs have been established with an average of 16 members each.
These FOs have established, or are in the process of. installing over 2,200 CTWs, which have
benefited about 35,000 farm families. The CTWs have adequately substituted for the STWs -- more
than 80 percent of the farmers who used to receive water from STWs are the direct beneficiaries of
CTWs as members of the FOs. The main beneficiaries of the CTWs are generally small farmers --
15 I'recise figures are not vet available due to delay by the impact evaluation consultants in cleaning up the computerized data
base. Fhis is now being done and is expected to be completed by November 15. 1997.



34
over 85 percent of the FOs' members have holdings less than 5 Ha.
The project's emphasis and success in promoting stakeholdei-s' participation has helped to promote the
culture of participatory irrigation management among the implementing agencies. The need for Social
organization and community participation is now generally better recognized, and multidisciplinary
approaches to project preparation and implementation are gradually being mainstreamed in the
development process.
3.7    Project Sustainability. The benefits of the investments made in tubewells and watercourse
improvements under the project are likely to be sustained. There are over 400,000 PTWs in Pakistan
installed, operated and maintained by farmers. The large majority of these are shallow tubewells with
locally made centrifugal pumps and diesel fuel based prime movers (Peter Engines introduced during the
late 1 980s). Although pump efficiencies are low and routine anl preventive maintenance is often
inadequate, farmers are well familiar with this technology and repair and maintenance and drilling
facilities are locally available. Similarly, although Water User Associations tend to become inactive after
the watercourses has been improved, farmers continue to maintain watercourses through traditional
informal arrangements. However, efficiency gains obtained imrnediately after renovation may decrease
over time.
3.8           The use of groundwater for intensive agriculture could lead to accumulation of salts in
the soil and adversely affect productivity in the long term unless appropriate soil and water management
practices are introduced. Uncontrolled pumpage from the FGW areas could also lead to deterioration of
the groundwater quality dve to intrusion of saline water from saline pockets. Several remedial/mitigation
measures were implemented as part of the project, which wi' continue to be implemenLLd Lij.uer other
ongoing or upcoming projects to address this issue and promote sustainability (see Post-completion
Operation Plan). These include:
* Physical and environmental monitoring being carried out as part of the hydrogeological studies will
continue after project implementation completion. The project area is also a candidate for intensive
monitoring that is expected to be carried out under the Punjab Private Sector Groundwater
Development as the first phase in the development of a groundwater regulatory framework for Punjab;
* The ongoing "after-care" and training program for FOs, which includes messages on soil and water
management, will continue after implementation completion;
* As part of the Drainage Plan prepared under the project: (a) STWs and surface drainage facilities in
the saline groundwater (SGW) area are proposed to be rehabilitated or replaced with tile drainage
facilities; and (b) proper outfalls will be provided to evacuate the saline effluent from the project area
in an environmentally safe manner.
3.9           The FOs established under the project are still in their infancy with most of them less
than two years old. While most of them are reported to be functioning satisfactorily, some are reported to
have social and organizational problems. Case studies carried out by the impact evaluation consultants
iidicate that only a small percentage of the FOs are maintaining records of tubewell operations and
accounts. and following democratic processes in making decisions of common interest. In some FOs the
executive members tend to dominate and monopolize the tubewell. This is particularly evident in those
FOs where the tubewell is located on the land of one of the executive members, and where all the
members initially did not contribute their share of the cost of the tubewell. Even if some of the FOs
disintegrate, the CTWs are likely to continue operating as PTWs. Nonetheless, there is a clear need to
continue the ongoing after-care and training program for FOs to help ensure their sustainabilitv. The



35
Post-completion Operation Plan provides for this.
3.10   Project Cost, Financing Arrangements, and Implementation Timetable. Project
implementation is expected to be completed on schedule by December 31, 1997, the original Credit
closing date at an estimated cost of US$21.6 million, or 54% of the appraisal estimate. The main reasons
for the reduction in costs in US$ terms are: (i) depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee; and (ii) reduction in
the tubewells targets during the MTR, because of higher than expected growth of non-project tubewells.
The low demand for tubewells loans resulted in under-utilization of the IDA Credit by the Agricultural
Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP). SDR4.5 million were canceled on July 23, 1997.
3.11   Key Factors that Affected Achievement of the Major Objectives. Project start-up was
delayed by almost one year due to delay in recruitment of project implementation assistance consultants
which in turn delayed Credit effectiveness by about nine months. There was a long delay in the
appointment of impact evaluation consultants and consequently in carrying out baseline surveys. Long
and complex criteria and procedures for approval and disbursements of tubewell incentives coupled with
the adverse publicity of the project by STWs operators and resistance by influential farmers to the closure
of STWs all contributed to the overall poor implementation performance up to mid- 1994.
3.12         The project's performance turned around after the MTR when the following adjustments
were made in project policies and implementation approach: (i) project incentives were discontinued for
individually owned PTWs; (ii) the concept of CTWs was introduced and supported by a structured
program of social organization; (iii) incentives approval criteria and disbursement procedures were
simplified and made more clear; (iv) the composition of the consultants team was made mutli-disciplinary
and their office was shifted from Lahore to project area; and (v) the project targets for tubewells were
adjusted taking into account the natural growth of non-project supported tubewells, and the change from
individually owned PTWs to CTWs.
3.13         Firm commitment of the Government to the project objectives, enthusiastic participation
of the farmers in the project after the mid-term review, coupled with generally good management by the
implementing agencies, good performance of the implementation assistance consultants and effective
supervision by IDA all contributed to the timely completion of the project and achievement of its
objectives, despite the implementation delays experienced up to the MTR. The Government fully
supported the policy changes and the innovative adjustments in the project implementation approach
introduced during the MTR, demonstrating flexibility in implementation and policy orientation to meet
the project objectives. For example, the Government endorsed, and quickly implemented the proposal to
discontinue subsidizing individually owned tubewells. The Government also supported the structured
approaches to social organization to establish FOs, and maintained continuity of key project staff (project
director). The implementing agencies and farmers also fully owned and supported the introduction of
participatory approach to project implementation.
3.14   IDA's Performance. The performance of IDA during project preparation and appraisal was
generally satisfactory. However, while the lessons learned from the SCARP Transition Pilot Project were
incorporated in the project design an explicit provision was not made for social organization and farmer
outreach. Similarly, while the criteria set out for award of project incentives were designed to promote
equity by giving preference to water user associations, farmer groups and small farmers, initial
implementation experience indicates that these criteria were somewhat complex and difficult to
implement.
3.15         IDA's performance during supervision was innovative and effective. The MTR was
conducted in a fully participatory manner involving all stakeholders and benefited from the concurrent



36
presence in the field of the appraisal mission for the Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development
Project. The MTR promoted ownership of all stakeholders and proved to be a turning point for the
project. Subsequent supervisions were regular and helped to address implementation issues effectively.
3.16   Borrower's Performance. Performance of GOP during project preparation was marginally
satisfactory. Surveys carried out during project implementation indicate that the feasibility report for the
project may have under estimated the number of private tubewells that were already installed in the
project area, suggesting that supervision of project preparation was deficient. GOPunjab's involvement
during project preparation was limited to reviewing reports prepared by consultants. No staff were
specifically charged with the responsibility of controlling qualily of project preparation.
3.17         Performance of GOPunjab during project implementation was generally satisfactory. It
provided unwavering support to the project objectives by, inter alia, ensuring timely release of funds;
promptly approving the innovative changes suggested during the MTR; discontinuing subsidy for
individually owned PTWs; and adjusting the incentives package. However, GOPunjab has not yet fully
met the project covenant which requires recovery of 30 percent of the cost of watercourse materials from
the beneficiaries. Only 51 percent of the amounts due had been collected as of September 30, 1997. The
Directorate General of Water Management resisted suggestions by IDA missions to switch from the
system of collecting installments to up-front contribution, on the grounds that this change would
adversely affect implementation progress. Recently GOPunjab has decided to collect the back-log of cost
recovery as arrears of land revenue. The results of the new system, however, remain to be seen. GOP's
role during the implementation of the project was limited to allocation and release of federal funds
through WAPDA. Because of various reasons release of funds by WAPDA was delayed during FY96/97
and the FY97/98 budget has yet to be released. Thanks to the timely release of funds by GOPunjab the
project has not suffered any cash flow problems yet. However, further delays will lead to delayed
disbursement of tubewell incentives to FOs and payments to consultants.
3.18   Project Outcome. The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The physical targets of all
major components have been or are likely to be completed before closing date, and the major objectives
have been met. The economic rate of return is expected to be over 25 percent 16 (as compared to 24
percent estimated at appraisal.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
3.19   Important Findings. Surveys conducted during project implementation indicate that the
number of non-project PTWs in the project area increased from about 9,000 in 1988 to 19,000 in 1994.
This high growth could be attributed to the introduction of new and relatively inexpensive technology
(Peter Engines) during this period. Questions have, however, been raised whether the tubewell growth
was indeed as high as it appears or whether the feasibility report had under estimated the number of
PTWs in 1988. The survey findings, however, suggest that growth of PTWs would have continued
without any project intervention, as the STWs were gradually deteriorating. However, there is evidence
that the non-project PTWs were generally installed by farmers with medium and large holdings. The
project made the tubewell growth more equitable by introducing the concept of CTWs, which have
mainly benefited small farmers. The CTWs also curbed the uncontrolled growth of PTWs and increased
the efficiency of groundwater abstraction by virtue of their higher operating factors and lower operating
costs as compared to PTWs. Another notable finding is that replacement of STWs with PTWs/CTWs
resulted in substantial productivity gains and increased farm incomes, particularly in those areas where
the STWs had deteriorated.
16 The ICR mission will estimate the ERR upon receipt of impact evaluation data and final cost estimates



37
3.20         Case studies carried out under the project indicate that: (i) FOs in which all member
farmers contribute their share of the CTW cost up-front (instead of only the more affluent members
bearing the full cost initially) have better prospects of equity in water sharing and sustainability; and (ii)
FO members whose lands are located far away from the CTW have higher conveyance/operational water
losses and therefore have lesser incentive to utilize CTWs.
3.21   Post-Completion Operation Plan. FOs and individuals farmers will be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of watercourses improved and the PTWs/CTWs installed under the project.
However, the Government will need to continue physical and environmental monitoring in the project
area after implementation completion. The Government will also need to continue the after-care and
training program for a period of about two years to help ensure the sustainability of the FOs which are
still in their infancy. The Post-completion Operation Plan prepared by the implementing agencies with
inputs from the mission is attached (Annex 1).
3.22   Key Lessons Learned. The key lessons learned from this project, some of which have already
been incorporated in the design of the follow-up project (Punjab Private Sector Groundwater
Development Project), include:
* GOProvinces should take the lead in the preparation of provincial projects, and should designate staff
for ensuring quality control and involvement of all stakeholders.
* A structured social mobilization program and a multi-disciplinary approach to project implementation
is essential for the success of irrigation projects.
* Appropriate steps should be taken to remove difficulties which farmers face in obtainingfard milkiat
(evidence of land titles, required for FO membership) from the patwaris. [The proposals made under
the proposed Agriculture Sector Investment Project (ASIP) to address this issue should be
considered].
* Arrangements for internal and external monitoring and impact evaluation activities should be
operationalized right from the start of the project, and quality of data collection and collation
(including establishment of a computerized data base) should be closely supervised.
* To the extent feasible, CTWs should be located on land jointly owned by FO members, and careful
analysis should be made whether all members will be able to receive CTWs water efficiently.
* Consideration should be given to developing rural micro-credit facilities to help farmers pay up-front
costs of watercourse improvements and CTWs.
* Farmer training programs should be an integral part of the project design and should be initiated early
in the implementation phase.
* Federal budgetary allocations for provincial projects should be released directly to the province;
* In future FOs should be registered under the PIDA Act instead of the WUA Act.
* Continuity of competent and motivated key project staff improves project implementation.



38
IV. NEXT STEPS AND ICR TIME TABLE
a.    Issuance of IDA management letter confirming the mission findings by December 15, 1997.
b.    Transmittal of draft ICR to GOP/GOPunjab/GOSindh for comment by February 15, 1998.
c.    Submission by GOPunjab and GOSindh of final versions of their own evaluation of the project
along with their comments on the draft ICR (if any) by March 15, 1998. (If the evaluation report
is more than ten pages long it should be accompanied by a summary).
d.    Preparation of the gray cover ICR and internal IDA clearances by April 15, 1998.
e.    Transmittal of the final version of gray cover ICR to GOP/GOPunjab/GOSindh by April 30,
1998.
f.    Submission of the ICR to IDA Board by May 31, 1998.
V. SUPERVISION ASPECTS
Actions Required Before Credit Closing Date
5.1   The PD PMC to ensure that the PIA consultants complete the soil salinity survey of the project
area, and groundwater sample tests, and submit their report by December 15, 1997.
5.2    The PD PMC to ensure that the PIA consultants submit the final version of the environmental
assessment report by November 30, 1997.
5.3   The PDPMC to obtain CDWP clearance of the revised project PC- I by November 30, 1997, and
if required, ECNEC approval by December 31, 1997.
5.4    The PDPMC to ensure that the impact evaluation consultants clean up the survey data base and
provide print outs of crop budgets for major crops, cropping intensities, cropping patterns, yields,
production, gross and net farm incomes by November 15, 1997.
5.5    The PD PMC and the Director General Water Managenment (DGWM) to provide final/actual
estimates of project cost to IDA by November 30, 1997.
5.6   The DGWM to provide IDA information on cost recovery levels achieved as of December 31,
1997 by January 15, 1998.
5.7   The PDPMC to secure release of the remaining federal budgetary allocations for FY96/97 and the
allocation for FY97/98 from WAPDA by November 30, 1997.
5.8    The PDPMC to secure release of the remaining provincial budgetary allocation for FY97/98 from
the Finance Department by November 30, 1997.
5.9    The PD PMC should complete the retrieval of the remaining STWs machinery from the bore-
holes by November 30, 1997.



39
5.10   The PD PMC and DGWM should expedite completion of CTWs/PTWs and disburse the
remaining installments of tubewell incentives by December 15, 1997. (Beyond this date it will be
difficult to carry out field verifications as the consultants will demobilize by December 31, 1997).
5.11   The PD PMC should submit a revised draft of borrower's evaluation report and maps of the
project area (updates of those included in the SAR) by November 30, 1997 (Annex 2 provides
some guidance on the format and content).
5.12   ADBP headquarters to provide IDA information on loan recoveries achieved as of December 31,
1997 by January 15, 1998.
5.13   The DGWM to ensure that the PIA consultants certify all watercourse improvement works and
submit to IDA "comprehensive" watercourse charts by December 15, 1997.
5.14   The PDPMC to ensure that the PIA and Impact Evaluation consultants prepare an inventory of all
significant documents and data bases in their possession by December 15, 1997. (User friendly
operating manuals/guidelines should be prepared for the groundwater model and the impact
evaluation data base to facilitate transfer to successor agencies).
5.15   The PDPMC and the DGWM to arrange for auditing of their respective FY96/97 accounts and
ensure that audit reports are submitted to IDA before March 31, 1998.
5.16   The PDPMC and DGWM to finalize arrangements for starting timely implementation of the Post-
Completion Operation Plan by November 30, 1997 so that implementation could commence on
January 1, 1998.
Annex 1
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION (SST) PROJECT
Post Completion Operation Plan
(Both Punjab and Sindh prepared PCOPs during the ICR mission. They are included in the Borrowers
evaluation report)



40
Annex 2
Guidance on Borrower's Evalua1;ion of Project
a.           The Government's own final evaluation of the project is an important part of the ICR. It
is attached unedited to the ICR submitted to the IDA Board. It can be selective in coverage and should
address issues and lessons learned in project implementation, from the borrower's perspective. Topics
covered can be the same as in the ICR, including project preparation/design, appraisal, implementation
and project outcome/results. At each stage of the project the contribution should comment on the
performance of both IDA and the implementing agencies, with observations, where possible supported by
evidence or reasoned argument.
b.    For Project preparation/design the report should address such questions as the appropriateness
of project objectives, the size and scope of the investments proposed, ease (or difficulty) of
implementation, and effects on government institutions.
c.    For project appraisal the report should concentrate on any significant changes made during
appraisal in the project objectives, size, and scope as compared to those proposed in the preparation
report, and whether these were appropriate.
d.    Project implementation experience should be divided in to an assessment of IDA performance
in supporting and supervising the project and the performance of the implementing agencies.
Effectiveness of the relationship between the government and I'DA should also be documented.
e.    Project Operation Experience should document the initial observations on the manner in which
project created facilities are being operated and maintained and the prospects of sustainability.
f.    Project Results include both an assessment of direct physical benefits leading to financial and
economic and fiscal benefits (dis-benefits) arising from the projUect. Since financial and economic
analysis of the project will be carried out as part of the ICR, if government so wishes, its report could
more usefully comment on the effects of the project from its own perspective.
g.    Lessons learned should be based on the analysis in the foregoing sections.
f.    Current Status. The PDPMC has already prepared a first draft of the evaluation report. The
mission has provided the PDPMC with some suggestions for revising the formnat and structure of the
report. The above suggestions relate to the content and substance of the report.



41
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
(Sindh)
(Cr. 2257-PAK)
Implementation Completion Mission
November 7 - 14, 1997
AIDE-MEMOIRE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1          An IDA mission comprising Usman Qamar, Akmal Siddiq, A. Z. Durrani, A. Iqbal, Riaz
Mahmood, and Sardar Riaz Khan visited Sindh from November 6 to 14, 1997 to carry out the final
supervision and initiate preparation of the implementation completion report for this project. The main
objectives of the mission were to: (i) review overall progress and agree on measures for timely
completion and fulfillment of project objectives; (ii) review outputs of impact evaluation studies, and
update key performance indicators; and (iii) initiate preparation of the project's implementation
completion report (ICR).
1.2          The mission discussed the project objectives, implementation experience, outcome,
lessons learned, and the post-completion operations plan (Annex 1) with officials of the Irrigation, and
Planning and Development Departments. The mission spent two days in the field and discussed aspects
relating to the project's outcome and its impact with Farmer Organizations (FOs) and individual farmers.
The mission also provided guidance to the implementing agencies for the preparation of the borrowers
evaluation report on the project (Annex 2). Finally, the mission agreed with the Project Director (PD
PMC), and the project implementation assistance (PIA) consultants on various actions required to be
completed before December 31, 1997, the Credit closing date. A partial list of persons met is given in
Annex 4. The mission is grateful and wishes to thank all the officials, consultants, and FOs met for their
cooperation, courtesies, and hospitality.
1.3          A draft aide-memoire, summarizing the views of the mission, the borrower, the
implementing agencies was discussed at a wrap-up held in the Planning and Development (P&D)
Department on November 14, 1997. This aide-memoire incorporates the main pints made during the
wrap-up meeting. It is organized as follows:
Section I  : Introduction
Section II : The Project Objectives and Main Components
Section III : Mission Findings
Section IV  : Next Steps and ICR Timetable
Section V  : Supervision Aspects: Actions Required
Annex 1   : Post-Completion Operation Plan
Annex 2   : Guidance for Preparation of Borrower's Evaluation Report
Annex 3   : Performance Indicators
Annex 4        : List of Persons Met
1.4          The mission's views presented here are subject to confirmation by IDA management.



42
II. THE PROJECI'
2.1    Project Preparation. The project was prepared by the Ministry of Water and Power using
project preparation funds provided under the Second Irrigation System Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1888-
PAK).
Project Objectives
2.2          The main objectives of the project was to test the viability of SCARP Transition in Sindh.
Its specific objectives were to (i) increase agricultural production through improved and timely
availability of supplementary irrigation on a financially sustainable basis; (ii) maintain an appropriate
groundwater table through private tubewells (PTWs), replacing the current SCARP tubewells (STWs),
which are expensive to maintain and poorly maintained; and (iii) prepare a follow-up program for larger
scale replacement of STWs based on the experience under the project.
2.3    Project Components. The project covers 0.132 million ha in the Moro and Sakrand units of the
SCARP North Rohri Project in Sindh. Its main components are: (i) replacement of 380 STWs by PTWs
and community tubewells (CTWs); (ii) provision of one-time financial incentives, and credit to farmers
for tubewell installation; (iii) provision of Consultancy services to assist project implementation, and
carry out hydro-geological and impact evaluation studies; and (v) training of project staff and farmers in
various fields.
2.4   Project Cost and Financing. The project cost including physical and price contingencies was
estimated at US$8.7 million, including a foreign exchange component of US$4.7 million. The project
was to be financed by an IDA Credit of SDR14.8 million (US$20 million equivalent, with approximately
US$3.76 million for Sindh). GOP/GOSindh were to contribute US$2.68 million and farmers US$2.27
million equivalent. The IDA Credit was signed on July 31, 1991, became effective on April 30, 1992 and
is due to close on December 31, 1997.
m. MISSION FINDINGJS
3.1    Evaluation of Objectives. The pilot project's objectives were clear and realistic being similar to
those of the SCARP Transition Pilot Project (Cr. 1639-PAK), which was successfully completed in
Punjab on June 30, 1992. The pilot project in Punjab had demonstrated that (i) it was technically, socially,
and politically feasible to close down the highly subsidized STVWs if appropriate incentives were provided
to install PTWs and preference given to small farmers; and (ii) the water table can be maintained at
appropriate levels by PTWs even though farmers pump groundvwater primarily to meet irrigation
requirements. However, because of different land holding patterms and land tenure system and
historically lower growth of PTWs in Sindh as compared to Punjab, GOSindh decided to test the viability
of SCARP Transition on a pilot scale initially. The pilot project's objectives were directly in line with the
Government's sector policies and the Bank's sector assistance sl:rategy for Pakistan which, inter alia
aimed at transferring the responsibility for groundwater management in fresh groundwater areas to the
private sector and freeing scarce resources for improved operation and maintenance (O&M) of the
irrigation drainage system. The irrigation/drainage system had deteriorated over time due to various
reasons, including inadequate availability of O&M funds, a significant part of which was being pre-
empted by the STWs, which provided only a small portion of the irrigation supplies in the provinces.
3.2          Several covenants were included to support the project objectives. These included:
periodic review of the adequacy of the project's incentives package; carrying out of hydrogeological and



43
environmental monitoring studies, including preparation of a groundwater model and a drainage plan for
the SGW areas; and provision of adequate funding for the O&M of STWs and surface drainage facilities
in saline groundwater (SGW) areas.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.3    Achievement of Objectives. The project's physical targets have been or are likely to be
achieved and its objectives have been substantially achieved. About 380 STWs in the fresh and marginal
groundwater areas have been closed and replaced by PTWs and CTWs of equivalent capacity; and about
60 watercourses have been improved17.
3.4           Results of monitoring and evaluation studies indicate that:
* Agricultural production in the project area has increased1 8. Overall cropping intensity has increased,
yields of major crops have increased, and there is some shift towards higher value crops (e.g. banana
orchards);
* The rising trend in the groundwater table that had developed during 1986 -1995, due to deterioration
and closure of STWs, has been reversed by the growth of project supported PTWs and CTWs. During
1995 to 1997 the average depth of water table in the project area increased by about one foot per year
and is currently about 10.5 feet. Only 3 percent of the project area was reported to have water table
depth of 0 to 5 feet in May 1997. (These areas are located near canals where there is high recharge and
groundwater utilization is low.)
* The closure of STWs has released about 9 MW of electric power for other uses in the economy, and
has reduced the fiscal burden of O&M cost of SCARPs by about Rs 50 million per annum in nominal
terms. The actual fiscal savings are higher if the rise in unit O&M costs of STWs and the replacement
costs avoided since the start of the project are taken into account.
3.5           Besides meeting its stated agricultural, groundwater management, and fiscal objectives,
the project has also contributed to sector policies and institutional development. During the MTR the
concept of CTWs was introduced. This change was made with the view to: spread the project incentives
and benefits more equitably; make the project approach more multi-disciplinary; and establish grassroots
level farmer organizations (FOs) that could act as nuclei for developing viable and sustainable FOs at the
canal level in the medium term. These additional objectives have also been substantially met:
* GOSindh has introduced a "graduated" subsidy for tubewells which aims at promoting formation of
FOs;
* About 500 potentially viable FOs have been established, with an average of 12 members each. These
FOs have installed, or are in the process of installing, over 400 CTWs, which have benefited about
5,000 farm families19. The PTWs and CTWs have adequately substituted for the STWs -- more than
75 percent of the farmers who used to receive water from STWs are the direct beneficiaries of PTWs
or CTWs. The main beneficiaries of the PTWs/CTWs are generally small farmers -- over 65 percent
of the PTWs owners and FOs' members have holdings less than 5 ha.
17     Funded under the IDA assisted OFWM-III Project
18     Precise figures are expected to become available as soon as the impact evaluation consultants clean up the data base
and collate the results. This work is in progress and expected to be completed by November 30, 1997.
19     An additional 2,600 farm families have benefited directly from PTWs. This does not include farmers who buy water.



44
The project's emphasis on, and success in, promoting stakeholders' participation has helped to
promote the culture of participatory irrigation management among the implementing agencies. The
need for social organization and community participation is now generally better recognized, and
multidisciplinary approaches to project preparation and implementation are gradually being
mainstreamed in the development process.
3.6    Project Sustainability. The benefits of the investments made in tubewells installed under the
project are likely to be sustained. These are all shallow tubewells with locally made centrifugal pumps
and diesel fuel based prime movers (Peter engines introduced during the late 1980s). Although pump
efficiencies are low and routine and preventive maintenance is often inadequate, farmers are gradually
becoming familiar with this technology. Private tubewell development in the project area has been
accompanied by growth of tubewell drilling facilities and maintenance workshops.
3.7           The use of groundwater for intensive agriculture could lead to accumulation of salts in
the soil and adversely affect productivity in the long term unless appropriate soil and water management
practices are introduced. Preliminary runs of a mathematical groundwater model developed under the
project indicate that significant increase in pumpage from the FIJW areas (particularly from strata deeper
than 130 feet) could lead to deterioration of the groundwater quality in certain areas due to up-coning of
saline water from deeper layers of the aquifer. Continued inequitable distribution of canal water supplies
in the project area could also exacerbate this problem 20. The f:dlowing remedial/mitigation measures
(which were included in the project), will continue to be implemented under the upcoming National
Drainage Program (NDP) Project to address these issue and promote sustainability (see Post-completion
Operations Plan: Annex 1):
* Physical and environmental monitoring will continue after project implementation completion. The
project area is also a candidate for intensive monitoring that is expected to be carried out under the
NDP as the first phase in the development of a groundwater regulatory framework;
* The ongoing "after-care" and training program for FOs, which includes messages on soil and water
management, will continue after implementation completion: and
* Inequities in canal water supplies in the project area will be addressed by FOs to be established at the
canal level under the NDP Project.
3.8           The FOs established under the project are still in their infancy with most of them less
than two years old. While most of the FOs are reported to be functioning satisfactorily, many are
reported to have social and organizational problems. Case studies carried out by the impact evaluation
consultants indicate that only a small percentage of the FOs are maintaining records of tubewell
operations and accounts, and following democratic processes in making decisions of common interest. In
some FOs the executive members (presidents and secretaries) tend to dominate and monopolize the
tubewell. This is particularly evident in those FOs where the tubewell is located on the land of one of the
executive members, and where all the members initially did not contribute their share of the cost of the
tubewell. Even if some of the FOs disintegrate, the CTWs are likely to continue operating as PTWs.
Nonetheless, there is a clear need to continue the ongoing after-c;are and training program for FOs to help
ensure their sustainability. The Post-completion Operations Plan provides for this.
20     Head reaches of canals draw more than their share, which results in higher recharge of groundwater and low demand
for groundwater water leading to low utilization of tubewells. Conversely, the tail reaches do not receive their due
share, which results in lower recharge and higher utilization of groundwater.



45
3.9    Project Cost, Financing Arrangements, and Implementation Timetable. Project
implementation is expected to be completed on schedule by December 31, 1997, the original Credit
closing date, at an estimated cost of US$5.2 (or 60 percent of the appraisal estimate in US$ terms). The
main reason for the lower cost is the devaluation of the Pakistani Rupee. Low demand for tubewells loans
resulted in under-utilization of the IDA Credit by the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
(ADBP). SDR4.5 million were canceled on July 23, 1997.
3.10   Key Factors that Affected Achievement of the Major Objectives. Project start-up was
delayed by almost one year due to delay in recruitment of project implementation assistance consultants
which in turn delayed Credit effectiveness by about nine months. There was also a long delay in the
appointment of impact evaluation consultants and consequently in carrying out baseline surveys.
Inappropriate changes in the criteria for award of project incentives and lack of publicity of the project's
incentive package, coupled with the adverse publicity of the project by STWs operators and resistance by
influential farmers to the closure of STWs all contributed to the overall slow implementation progress up
to mid- 1994.
3.11         The project's performance turned around after the MTR when the following adjustments
were made in the project implementation approach and policies: (i) an intensive publicity and farmer
outreach campaign was undertaken to promote installation of tubewells; (ii) the concept of CTWs was
introduced and supported by a structured program of social organization and a graduated subsidy21
favoring CTWs installed by FOs; (iii) incentive award criteria were rationalized and disbursement
procedures were simplified; and (iv) the composition of the consultants' team was made mutli-
disciplinary.
3.12         Firm commitment of the Government to the project objectives, enthusiastic participation
of the farmers in the project after the mid-term review, coupled with generally good management by the
implementing agencies, good performance of the implementation assistance consultants and effective
supervision by IDA all contributed to the timely completion of the project and achievement of its
objectives, despite the implementation delays experienced up to the MTR. The Government fully
supported the policy changes and the innovative adjustments in the project implementation approach
introduced during the MTR, demonstrating flexibility in implementation and policy orientation to meet
the project objectives. For example, the Government supported the introduction of structured approaches
to social organization to help establish FOs. Finally, the Government maintained continuity of key
project staff (project director). The implementing agencies and farmers also fully owned and supported
the introduction of a participatory approach to project implementation.
3.13   IDA's Performance. The performance of IDA during project preparation and appraisal was
generally satisfactory. However, while the lessons learned from the SCARP Transition Pilot Project in
Punjab were incorporated in the project design an explicit provision was not made for social organization
and farmer outreach. Similarly, while the criteria set out for award of project incentives were designed to
promote equity by giving preference to water user associations, farmer groups and small farmers, initial
implementation experience indicates that these criteria were somewhat complex and difficult to
implement.
3.14         IDA's performance during supervision was innovative and effective. The MTR was
conducted in a fully participatory manner involving all stakeholders and benefited from the concurrent
presence in the field of the appraisal mission for the Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development
Project. The MTR promoted ownership of all stakeholders and proved to be a turning point for the
project. Subsequent supervisions were regular and helped to address implementation issues effectively.
21    Subsidy for CTWs was increased to Rs 30,000 while maintaining the subsidy for PTWs at Rs 16,000.



46
3.15   Borrower's Performance. Performance of GOP during project preparation was marginally
satisfactory. Involvement of GOSindh and GOPunjab was not pro-actively invited. Partly as a
consequence of this, GOSindh's involvement during project preparation was limited to reviewing reports
prepared by consultants. No staff were specifically charged with the responsibility of controlling quality
of project preparation.
3.16          GOP's role during the implementation of the project was limited to allocation and release
of federal funds through WAPDA. Performance of GOSindh during project implementation was
generally satisfactory. It provided support to the project objectives by, inter alia, ensuring timely release
of funds; promptly approving the innovative changes suggested during the MTR; and introducing a
graduated subsidy. However, GOSindh could not effectively address the issue of inequitable distribution
of canal water in the project area. ADBP's performance was lacking. The mobile credit officers did not
maintain close coordination with the PMC and PIA consultants. Partly as consequence of this, overall
progress lagged behind targets and some loans intended for the project farmers were in fact sanctioned to
farmers outside the project area. Several tubewells claimed to have been installed with the assistance of
ADBP loans remain to be verified. Finally, overall loan recoveries achieved so far are only 45 percent of
the amounts due.
3.17   Project Outcome. The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The physical targets of all
major components have been or are likely to be completed before the closing date, and the major
objectives have been met. The economic rate of return is expected to be over 25 percent 22 (as compared
to 20 percent estimated at appraisal).
Important Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
3.18   Important Findings. Replacement of STWs with PTWs/CTWs has resulted in productivity gains
and increased farm incomes, particularly in those areas where the STWs had deteriorated and canal water
supplies were low (tail reaches of canals). The PTWs/CTWs uti]l[ization factors are reported to be high in
these areas. On the other hand, in the head reaches where canals supplies are abundant, tubewell
utilization rates are reported to be low. In these areas, farmers/FOs rely primarily on canal water, and it
seems that they have invested in the tubewells primarily to avail the incentives and as an "insurance" for
the future.
3.19          Preliminary findings of case studies carried out under the project indicate that FOs in the
following categories have better prospects of achieving equity in water sharing and sustainability:
* FOs in which all member farmers contributed their share of the CTW cost up-front (instead of only the
more affluent members bearing the full cost initially);
* FOs that consist of members from the same family or caste and where lands of the members are so
located that they can receive water from the CTWs efficiently; and
* FOs located in areas where the canal supplies are low and there is an active demand for groundwater.
3.20          Preliminary runs of the groundwater model indicate that:
* groundwater pumpage from strata deeper than about 130 feet would result in deterioration of water
quality;
* rehabilitation and increased pumpage from the of SGW STWs that are currently non-functional, would
result in deterioration of water quality in certain areas in the nnedium term; and
22     The ICR mission will estimate the ERR upon receipt of impact evaluation data and final cost estimates.



47
* increased pumpage from PTWs/CTWs would result in deterioration of water quality in certain areas.
While the model is not yet fully refined and sensitivity tests on some of the assumptions/inputs have yet
to be carried out, these results, nonetheless, point out the need for careful monitoring, particularly in those
areas which are identified to be potentially at risk.
3.21   Post-Completion Operations Plan. FOs and individual farmers will be responsible for the
O&M of CTWs/PTWs installed under the project. However, the Government will need to continue
physical and environmental monitoring in the project area after implementation completion. The
Government will also need to continue the after-care and training program for a period of about two years
to help ensure the sustainability of the FOs which are still in their infancy. The Post-completion
Operations Plan prepared by the implementing agencies with inputs from the mission is attached (Annex
1).
3.22   Key Lessons Learned.
* GOProvinces should take the lead in the preparation of provincial projects, and should designate staff
for ensuring quality control and involvement of all stakeholders.
* A structured social mobilization program and a multi-disciplinary approach to project implementation
is essential for the success of irrigation projects.
* Appropriate steps should be taken to remove difficulties which farmers face in obtaining evidence of
land titles, required for FO membership. [The proposals made under the proposed Agriculture Sector
Investment Project (ASIP) to address this issue should be considered].
* Arrangements for internal and external monitoring and impact evaluation activities should be
operationalized right from the start of the project, and quality of data collection and collation
(including establishment of a computerized data base) should be closely supervised.
e To the extent feasible, CTWs should be located on land jointly owned by FO members, and careful
analysis should be made whether all members will be able to receive CTWs water efficiently.
* Consideration should be given to developing rural micro-credit facilities to help small farmers pay up-
front their share of the cost of CTWs.
* Farmer training programs should be an integral part of the project design and should be initiated early
in the implementation phase.
* In future FOs should be registered under the SIDA Act to provide them with legal cover.
* Continuity of competent and motivated key project staff improves project implementation.
IV. NEXT STEPS AND ICR TIME TABLE
a.    Issuance of IDA management letter confirming the mission findings by December 15, 1997.
b.    Transmittal of draft ICR to GOP/GOPunjab/GOSindh for comment by February 15, 1998.



48
c.    Submission by GOPunjab and GOSindh of final versions of their own evaluation of the project
along with their comments on the draft ICR (if any) by March 15, 1998. (If the evaluation report
is more than ten pages long it should be accompanied by a summary).
d.    Preparation of the gray cover ICR and internal IDA clearances by April 15, 1998.
e.    Transmittal of the final version of gray cover ICR to GOP/GOPunjab/GOSindh by April 30,
1998.
f.    Submission of the ICR to IDA Board by May 31, 1998.
V. SUPERVISION ASPECTS
Actions Required Before Credit Closing Date
5.1    The PD PMC to ensure that the PIA consultants complete soil salinity survey of the project area,
and analysis of deep groundwater samples from critical areas, and submit their report by
December 15, 1997.
5.2   The PD PMC to ensure that the PIA consultants submit an environmental assessment report by
December 15, 1997.
5.3    The PD PMC to ensure that the impact evaluation consultants clean up the survey data base and
provide time series data (from baseline to Rabi 1996/97), including crop budgets for major crops,
cropping intensities, cropping patterns, yields, production, gross and net farm incomes by
November 20, 1997.
5.4   The PD PMC to provide final/actual estimates of project cost to IDA by November 30, 1997.
5.5   The PD PMC should complete the retrieval of the remaining STWs machinery from the bore-
holes by November 30, 1997.
5.6   The PD PMC should expedite completion of CTWs/PT1Ws and disburse the remaining tubewell
incentives by December 15, 1997. (Beyond this date it will be difficult to carry out field
verifications as the consultants will demobilize by December 31, 1997).
5.7    The PD PMC should submit a revised draft of borrower's evaluation report and maps of the
project area (updates of those included in the SAR) by November 30, 1997 (Annex 2 provides
some guidance on the format and content).
5.8    ADBP headquarters to provide IDA with information on loan recoveries achieved as of
December 31, 1997 by January 15, 1998.
5.9    The PD PMC to ensure that the PIA and impact evaluation consultants prepare inventories of all
significant documents and data bases in their possession by December 15, 1997. (User friendly
operating manuals/guidelines should be prepared for the groundwater model and the impact
evaluation data base to facilitate transfer to successor agencies).
5.10   The PDPMC to ensure that the PIA consultants review and refine the groundwater model; re-run



49
the model for various future scenarios; and train staff of the successor organization (DRIP,
University of Sindh or other entity) in using the model, by December 31, 1997. The refinements
to be made in the model should include:
*     improving calibration;
*     carrying out sensitivity analysis for various inputs/assumptions, including values for
canal recharge, tubewell operation factors, permeability, transmissivity, specific yields,
etc.
5.11   The PD PMC to prepare a PC-1 for implementation of the Post-Completion Operations Plan as a
sub-project under the NDP, by November 30, 1997 so that implementation could commence on
January 1, 1998.
5.12   The PD PMC to arrange for auditing of the FY96/97 accounts and ensure that audit reports are
submitted to IDA before March 31, 1998.
Annex 1
Second SCARP Transition North Rohri Pilot Project
Post Completion Operation Plan
(Both Punjab and Sindh prepared PCOPs during the ICR mission. They are included in the Borrowers
evaluation report)



50
Annex 2
Guidance on Borrower's Evaluaition of Project
a.            The Government's own final evaluation of the project is an important part of the ICR. It
is attached unedited to the ICR submitted to the IDA Board. It can be selective in coverage and should
address issues and lessons learned in project implementation, from the borrower's perspective. Topics
covered can be the same as in the ICR, including project preparation/design, appraisal, implementation
and project outcome/results. At each stage of the project the contribution should comment on the
performance of both IDA and the implementing agencies, with observations, where possible supported by
evidence or reasoned argument.
b.     For Project preparation/design the report should address such questions as the appropriateness
of project objectives, the size and scope of the investments proposed, ease (or difficulty) of
implementation, and effects on government institutions.
c.     For project appraisal the report should concentrate on any significant changes made during
appraisal in the project objectives, size, and scope as compared to those proposed in the preparation
report, and whether these were appropriate.
d.     Project implementation experience should be dividecd in to an assessment of IDA performance
in supporting and supervising the project and the performance of the implementing agencies.
Effectiveness of the relationship between the government and IDA should also be documented.
e.     Project Operation Experience should document the initial observations on the manner in which
project created facilities are being operated and maintained and the prospects of sustainability.
f     Project Results include both an assessment of direct physical benefits leading to financial and
economic and fiscal benefits (dis-benefits) arising from the proJject. Since financial and economic
analysis of the project will be carried out as part of the ICR, if government so wishes, its report could
more usefully comment on the effects of the project from its own perspective.
g.    Lessons learned should be based on the analysis in the foregoing sections.
f.     Current Status. The PDPMC has already prepared a first draft of the evaluation report. The
mission has provided the PDPMC with some suggestions for revising the fornat and structure of the
report. The above suggestions relate to the content and substance of the report.



51
Appendix B
BORROWER'S EVALUATION &
POST-COMPLETION OPERATIONAL PLAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
(IDA Credit No.2257-PAK)
1.    BACKGROUND
1.1   Salinity Control and Reclamation Programme (SCARP): Agriculture, is the main stay
of Pakistan's economy. About 90 percent of agricultural output which accounts for more
than a quarter of GDP, more than half of all employment and provides subsistence to the
rural population, forming 75 percent of the total, depends on irrigation. The vast canal
systems covering the Indus basin operating over a period of more than 50 years, without
adequate drainage of the irrigated areas, caused wide spread waterlogging and soil
salinity. By 1950s large areas of fertile land, mostly in Punjab was thrown out of
cultivation on this account. To control the twin menaces of waterlogging and salinity, the
Government of Pakistan embarked on the implementation a series of Salinity Control
and Reclamation Projects (SCARPs) in early 1960s. The said projects provided the
necessary sub-surface drainage relief by pumping out the groundwater through large
capacity tubewells. Discharge of SCARP Tubewells (STWs) operating in fresh
groundwater (FGW) areas provided supplementary irrigation water which used in
conjunction with available canal supplies enabled the farmers to increase cropped area.
Effluent of STWs operating in saline groundwater (SGW) areas, is disposed of into
nearby surface drains outfalling in a river. In Punjab province SCARP I was the first one
of such projects and went into operation during 1961-63, which covered a gross area of
1.21 million acres. In Sindh North Rohri SCARP, the second such project in Sindh
province, came into operation during 1978. It covered a gross area of 0.725 million
acres.
1.2   SCARP Transition Concept: The SCARPs have been meeting the drainage and salinity
control requirements to a very large extent but with passage of time the discharge of the
STWs has been decreasing and their performance became uneven due to frequent
breakdowns and their operation at times did not synchronize with the periods of keen
demand for crops. In order to maintain the level of agricultural development already
attained by them, the farmers were compelled to install their own tubewells to make up
the deficiency of groundwater. At the same time cost of O&M and replacement of aging
STWs, has been on the increase, proving it to be an unsustainable financial burden on
public exchequer. The Government therefore decided to transfer the responsibility of
development and management of groundwater in SCARP areas underlain with fresh
groundwater from public to private sector. This policy recognizes and enunciates the
concept of SCARP Transition.
1.3   SCARP Transition Projects: The area covered by SCARP I, was the first one selected
for the study of the feasibility of implementing the SCARP transition concept. Necessary
feasibility studies for this area were completed in 1984 and it was decided to implement
SCARP transition on a pilot basis over the area covered by Khanqah Dogran Scheme of
SCARP I. It was expected that the implementation experience gained in this area would
serve the basis for determining the feasibility of and most effective approach to replicate



52
SCARP transition in other SCARP areas. lmplementation of the SCARP Transition Pilot
Project was successfully completed by June 1992. Encouraged by the success of the
said Project, the government decided to take up the Second SCARP Transition
Project, in Punjab and Sindh, as a follow-up to the pilot project. In Punjab it covers a
gross area of 1.095 million acres essentially aims at terminating under a phased
programme the 1346 STWs operating in FGW areas of SCARP I less its Khanqah
Dogran Scheme and to induce the farmers to install their own tubewells. Govt. of Sindh
urged that there is difference in social set up as compared to Punjab and there is need to
run a pilot project in Sindh, therefor, Second SCARP Transition North Rohri Pilot Project
(SSTNRPP) in Sakrand and Moro units of SCARP North Rohri was initiated. It covered
an area of 0.326 million acres, terminating 382 STWs. Implementation of this project
started during July 1992 and completed by December 1997, on scheduled dates.
2.    BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT
2.1   Project Objectives: The SST Project aimed at implementing the "SCARP Transition"
policy of the Government, to achieve the following objectives:
(a)   Increased agricultural production of the Project area, through improved and
timely availability of supplementary irrigation water pumped by private tubewell,
on a financially sustainable basis.
(b)   Maintain groundwater table at appropriate levels, through pumpage by private
tubewells (PTWs) replacing the current SiWs which are poorly maintained and
expensive to operate and propose ways and means to ensure long-term
sustainability of groundwater extraction and balanced pumpage from the FGW
and SGW areas of the Project, so that intrusion of saline groundwater into FGW
areas is arrested.
(c)   (i) Elimination of future highly subsidized expenditure for the maintenance and
operation of STWs and their replacement as and when necessary. (ii) Enable the
Government to recover an appropriate portion of the investment and to utilize
elsewhere the electric load released due to the closure of STWs.
(d)   Based on experience on this project, prepare follow up projects for large scale
replacement of STWs in other SCARPs, in 1Punjab.
(e)   The SCARP Transition Project in Sindh aimed at testing the viability of SCARP
transition in that province and based upon the experience gained, prepare a
follow up programme for large scale transition of other SCARPs in Sindh.
2.2   Design:
Punjab
(i)   Terminate under a phased programme 13,46 STWs operating in FGW areas of
the Project and to induce the farmers to either take over an STW in good
condition or install jointly owned tubewells preferably along watercourses by such
groups of farmers as Water Users Associations (WUAs) and as a last option



53
installation of tubewells by individual farmers, giving priority to smaller land
holders. During MTR June/July 94, it was decided that the incentive in form of
subsidy will be extended to FOs only.
(ii)   Improvement of about 500 selected watercourses in FGW areas of the Project
area under the OFWM Programme to facilitate proper inter-farm distribution and
sharing of water pumped by PTWs.
Sindh
(iii)   Terminate under a phased programme 382 STWs operating in FGW areas of
Sakrand and Moro Units of SCARP North Rohri and to induce the farmers to
either take over an STW in good condition or install jointly owned tubewells
preferably along watercourses by such groups of farmers as Water Users
Associations (WUAs) and as a last option installation of tubewells by individual
farmers.
Punjab and Sindh
(iv)   Training of farmers and project staff in improved agricultural inputs and practices
and development and maintenance of tubewell works.
(v)   Provision of one time financial incentives and ADBP credit to farmers for
installation of PTWs and CTWs.
(vi)   Provision of consultants services to assist the Project Management Cell (PMC) in
project implementation, hydrogeological studies and impact evaluation studies
and preparation of future SCARP transition projects.
(vii)  Carrying out hydrogeological studies which include: (a) preparing action plans to
ensure long term sustainability of groundwater extraction in the project area, and
proposing ways and means to ensure balanced pumpage from FGW and SGW
areas of the project so that intrusion of saline groundwater in FGW areas is
arrested. (b) developing a computerized mathematical groundwater model for
ascertaining scenarios based on anticipated field operating conditions. (c)
assessing the impact of using marginal quantity groundwater on soil fertility, and
(d) environmental assessment of the impact of saline groundwater effluent
disposal and the build up of harmful chemicals in the soil by the use of marginal
quality water for irrigation.
(viii)  Carrying out studies for evaluation of the impact of transition of tubewell
ownership from public to private sector in respect of changes in the cropping
pattems, cropping intensities, crop yields, use of improved agricultural inputs, and
availability of groundwater especially to small farmers. Study includes evaluation
of the impact of transition on net farm income and its distribution, especially the
benefits accruing to small farmers and assessment of economic and financial
performance of farmers owning a tubewell and those not owning one.
(ix)   Reduction in O&M expenditure of STWs.



54
(x)   In order to induce the farmers to install their tubewell expeditiously, the provincial
governments, provided (a) additional cash incentives and (b) ensured timely
connection to new electric driven tubewells.
During the early stages of implementation of the Project, the farmers opted for
installation of individually owned tubewells only which did not ensure equitable
distribution of groundwater to all farmers as it was the position before closure of STWs.
During the Mid Term Review of the Project (July 1994) it was agreed that the farmers
should be allowed to install jointly owned i.e. Comrnunity Tubewells (CTWs) only and the
option of the farmers to install individually owned tubewells was withdrawn from the area
where remaining STWs were to be closed. In S'indh, however, in addition of CTWs,
option of allowing subsidy for private tubewells installation was continued in view of the
poor socio-economic conditions.
2.3  Implementation: The overall responsibility for the implementation of the project
management rested with Project Management Cell (PMC) which were headed by
Superintending Engineer of the respective SCARP Circles of the Irrigation and Power
Department of GO Punjab and Sindh, who for the purpose of this project was designated
as the Project Director. For implementation of the Project and hydrogeological studies,
the PMC was assisted by Consultants a Joint Venture of ACE, NESPAK and NDC in
Punjab and ACE, NESPAK, ZCL and Harza in Sindh project areas.  Studies for
evaluation of the Project impact have been carried out by M/s Multi Dimensional
Consultants (MDC) in Punjab and by M/s Sindh Development Studies Center (SDSC) in
Sindh. Improvement of watercourses of the Projeict area has been the responsibility of
the On Farm Water Management Organization of the Provincial Agriculture Department.
After the Mid Term Review, the said organization also undertook installation of some of
the CTWs through the Water Users Associations (WUAs) in Punjab. Other organizations
that remained associated with the Project implementation in connection with the following
activities relating to PTWs and CTWs installed uncler the Project, are:
Organization                         Activity
1. Chairman  Area  Electricity    Providing electric connection to
Boards                               PTWNsl CTWs proposed by the
of WAPDA                       farrners  to   be   operated
electrically.
2.   Regional  Managers  of    Providing  credit for tubewell
Agricultural                         insl:allation.
Development Banks falling in
the
project areas of Punjab and
Sindh
sub-projects.
3. Deputy Commissioners of the    Issuance of Agricultural Pass
concerned districts in both the  Books.
provinces.



55
Although the Development Credit Agreement for the Project was signed on July 31,
1991, its start up was delayed by almost one year due to delay in recruitment of Project
Implementation Assistance Consultants, which in turn delayed Credit effectiveness by
about nine months. The Project Impact Evaluation Consultants were appointed by the
end of year 1994, which delayed carrying out of base-line surveys. To begin with, the
farmers opted to install individually owned tubewells which did not ensures access to
groundwater by all beneficiaries on equitable basis, besides involving long and cQmplex
criteria and procedures for approval and disbursement of tubewell subsidy. All these
handicaps combined with adverse publicity of the operators of the Project STWs and
resistance by influential farmers to the closure of STWs, contributed to overall slow pace
of implementation of the Project upto mid-1994. Progress of transition process on the
Project, however improved considerably after the following decisions taken during the
Mid Term Review of the Project (July 1994).
(i)    Criteria and procedure for approval and disbursement of subsidy for installing
CTWs should be simplified and made more clear.
(ii)   The composition of the PIA Consultants team was made multi-disciplinary and
their office be shifted from Lahore to Sheikhupura in Punjab and from Hydrabad
to Sukarand in Sindh; within the Project area.
(iii)   The project targets for tubewells were adjusted taking into account the natural
growth of non-project supported tubewells and the change of allowing installation
of CTWs instead of individually owned PTWs.
Punjab
(iv)   Transition of the 703 STWs awaiting closure after July 1994, was carried out by
allowing installation of CTWs only by WUAs or properly formed Farmer
Organizations (FOs). The establishment of effective FOs was considered crucial
to the successful implementation of the said strategy as the project did not have
much experience nor expertise for establishing the required type of FOs, four
different models were tested by engaging; (a) Project Management Cell (PMC)
with the help of Social Organizers (SOs). The SOs, M.A or M.Sc. in Rural
Sociology, were engaged by the Project Implementation Assistance (PIA)
Consultants and were given intensive training for performing the proposed work,
by an expatriate specialist before they were fielded. The SOs were to report to
Social Organization Supervisors (SOSs) for coordination and supervision of the
activities of SOs. (b) A local service NGO, was engaged by the PIA Consultants
for utilizing its social organization skills. (c) Directorate of OFWM by utilizing the
experience of its Field Teams who were already working in the Project area for
the improvement of watercourses under the OFWM Programme. It was also
decided that only those watercourses should be taken up for improvement by the
OFWM staff on which the WUAs would agree to install a CTW. (d) Irrigation
Department, worked by utilizing the experience and intimate knowledge of its
local revenue staff, Patwaris, Zilladars, etc. about the activities of the farmers of
the area.
(v)   The project envisaged closure of 1346 STWs and insatalation of 4700



56
PTvVs/CTWs and improvement of 500 watercourses. Project exceeded targets by
closing 1478 STWs and by installing 4800 PTWsICTWs (2210 CTWsplus 2590
PTWs). Watercourses improved under the project were 540. Besides achieving
these physical targets, about 1500 FOs were given training for economic use of
TWs.
(vi)   A computerized groundwater mathematical model and different scenarios based
on anticipating field operating conditions were studied. The remote sensing study
was also carried out to access the condition of soil salinity and water logging.
(vii)  PMC maintained close coordination with all entities responsible or associated
with implementation of the various Project components and as a result the
implementation proceeded smoothly, particularly after the Mid Term Review of
the Project.
Sindh
(viii)  The Project envisaged installation of 1800 PTWs.   After an  updated
hydrogeological study and restructure of consultants team and in light of new
approach the water budget was revised. It was estimated that 719 PTWs of 1.0
cusecs capacity and 1070 of 0.5 cusecs capacity, a total of 1789 tubewells will
pump out the requisite groundwater surplus which otherwise would have been
pumped by STWs. In view of different socio-economic conditions in Sindh only
428 CTWs out of 477 targeted and 343 private tubewells of one cusec capacity
could be installed. Total tubewells of one cusec were proposed as 719.
(ix)   With the restructured team of consultants, a wide publicity program to promote
and develop participatory groups of farmers organization for installation of CTWs,
was carried out through newspapers, electronic media, distribution, pasting of
pamphlets at doorsteps of farmers and drum beating in town mandis resulting in
raising the implementation to 58% by 1995-96 and 96% by November 1997. The
balance has been completed before target date matching with credit closing date.
The services of an NGO though paid for, did not yield good results.
(x)   The installation of PTWs/CT\Ns further reveals that 16% of tubewells have been
installed in the head reaches, 32% in the middle and 52% in the tail reaches of
the channels. Inequitable distribution of water supply in channels appears to be
the reason. There is the least demand of PTWs in head reach where water is in
abundance and the most in the tail reach where water is scarce. The project
benefits on small, medium and large size farm basis are 60%, 10% and 7%
respectively.
(xi)  Seventeen training sessions were held in the project area on the locations of
CTWs installed, to disseminate the know how to farmers/ FOs on tubewell
technology and equipment, water management in conjunctive use of marginal
quality groundwater of tubewells, maximizing the benefits using cost effective
technique, and optimum utilization of TW water. Two indoor sessions were also
held on same pattern to impart training to the staff of Irrigation and Power
Department for guidance and actions to be taken according to Post Completion
Plan.



57
(xii)  Verification of land holdings of farmers to approve FOs/COs took more time than
anticipated as the relevant record was not upto-date.
2.4   Operation Experience: Introduction of the innovative approach to replace STWs by
CTWs to be installed by properly established FOs was new to the farmers who were
apprehensive of its success. Good deal of motivation had to be done before the farmers
started agreeing to implement the new concept and in due course of time their response
was found to be encouraging. Experience gained in this context shows that:
(i)   Farmers should not be allowed to install individually owned tubewells, in
replacement of STWs, because in the absence of dependable or properly
organized water markets, a farmer not owning a tubewell may not get his share of
supplementary groundwater at the time and in quantity it is needed for his crops
and at a reasonable price.
(ii)   STWs should be replaced only by CTWs, to be installed by FOs which should be
established with the help of properly qualified and duly trained Social Organizers.
(iii)   To ensure sustained and efficient functioning of FOs 'after-care' and training of
FOs should continue for at least one year after these have been established.
The said programme should aim at helping the FOs to resolve their
organizational and management problems, training in book-keeping, O&M of
CTW, pricing and distribution of its water and should include messages on
improved agricultural inputs.
(iv)   The CTW should be installed on land which is or is acquired as common property
of the CTW beneficiaries and a large majority of the members of the FO should
be small farmers. This will curb the tendency of an influential member or owner
of the land in which the CTW is installed, to monopolize its supply.
(v)   FOs installing a CTW  seldom  need credit for its construction if its cost is
substantially subsidized under the project.
(vi)   The progress for developing the concept of CTWs when compared to installation
of PTWs proved to be more popular mainly due to; (a) fresh and energetic
graduates of Rural Sociology were engaged as SOs to motivate farmers for
installation of CTWs; (b) good mobility of the SOs was ensured by providing them
brand-new motorcycles; (c) tempo of the SOs was extended with intensive
training and by conducting refresher courses; (d) their progress was also
vigilantly monitored by the PMC and by the PIA Consultants.
Experience gained on other activities of project implementation are:
(i)   To promote the confidence of the beneficiaries over the project implementing
agencies, it is very much essential that their participation should be encouraged
by extending all assistance at their door step.
ii)    Physical and environmental monitoring carried out as part of the hydrogeological



58
studies of the Project area, should be continued after the project implementation
is completed.
iii)   At present rate of pumpage from SGW areas of the Project is less than that of
FGW areas which can cause lateral intrusion of SGW into FGW. The said rate is
also less than the rate at which drainable surplus of SGW area should be
pumped which is responsible for current overall rise of groundwater table of the
Project area. Drainage plan prepared undler the Project aims at meeting the
surface drainage requirements of SGW areas of this Project and provides for
proper outfalls of surface drain which will ensure efficient evacuation of the saline
effluent from the project area in an environmentally safe manner. This plan has
been made part of the National Drainage Plan which has since been taken up for
implementation.
2.5   Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance:
(a)   During Project Preparation Phase
Performance of GO Pakistan during this phase has been generally satisfactory.
However, in Punjab surveys carried out during project implementation revealed,
that the number of private tubewells alreacly operating in the project area, may
have been under estimated during the feasibility studies of the project,
suggesting that supervision of project preparation by GO Pakistan was deficient.
GO Punjab's involvement during project preparation was limited to reviewing
reports prepared by consultants. No staff were specifically charged with the
responsibility of controlling quality of project preparation.
In Sindh, the technical as well as administrative approvals for project were made
available in advance. Appointment of PIA Consultants was made in time but
delayed a little in case of appointment of Consultants for impact evaluation
studies.
(b)   During Implementation Phase:
Performance of GO Provinces during project implementation has been generally
satisfactory. It provided unwavering support to the project objectives by,inter alia
ensuring timely release of funds; promptly approving the innovative changes
suggested during the MTR. In Punjab, the matter of the project covenant which
requires recovery of 30 percent of the coist of watercourse materials from the
beneficiaries, the amount actually collected remained below the required level.
The project was effectively implemented mainly because of regular review/
supervision of project by the World Bank Review Mission and financial assistance
and releases, disbursements and replenishrnent.
(c)   Lessons Learnt:
(i)   The Borrower should take timely ac:tion to appoint consultants according
to the project covenant.



59
(ii)   To avoid cash flow problems on the project, local funds required for the
project should be made available through one source only.
(iii) Success of projects based on social participation primarily depends upon:
(a) dedicated and trained team of Social Organizers/Sociologist; (b) wide
publicity followed by social gatherings and feed back of the project
concept according to local needs, and
(iv)   Routine observations and updating of records by the concerned
departments are essential for better technical studies and unhindered
delivery of incentives.
2.6   Evaluation of Bank's Performance (and Co-financiers):
(a)   Effectiveness of the relationship between the Borrower and the Bank:
The success of the project is mainly due to intensive and close supervision
extended by the Bank staff in general arid by the Task Manager in particular.
Valuable guidelines/ directions were available during implementation through
regular supervision missions of the Bank. MTR of the project was held well in
time and the changes made in project design were definitely called for, and
enabled the implementation agencies to complete the project in better interest of
beneficiaries.
An IDA Mission carried out the review of the Project during August 1992 and held
a workshop for launching the Project to facilitate effective start up of project
implementation which helped the staff of the Government and Consultants
responsible for implementation of the Project to understand more clearly the role
of each agency in project implementation and the actions required to be taken by
them to resolve the bottlenecks likely to arise during implementation.
Decisions taken during the Mid Term Review of the Project by IDA promoted
ownership of all stakeholders by stopping installation of individually owned
tubewells and this proved to be a turning point for the project.
In order to provide training to senior staff of the implementing agencies of the
Project the World Bank arranged for them a tour to Mexico, to study the
Participatory Organizations that have been successfully established there for the
management of irrigation schemes.
Supervision and review of the project was regularly carried out by the Bank
Missions which helped to resolve implementation problems effectively. The
relationship between the Borrower and the Bank during the evolution and the
implementation phases of the Project were effective and helpful.
There was no co-financier on the Project.
(b)   Lessons Learnt: While the lessons learned from the SCARP Transition Pilot
Project were no doubt incorporated in the project design, an explicit provision
was not made for social organizations and farmer outreach. Similarly, while the



60
criteria set out for award of project incentives were designed to promote equity by
giving preference to water user associations, farmer groups and small farmers,
initial implementation experience indicatecl that these criteria were somewhat
complex and cumbersome to implement.
2.7   Plan for Operation Phase of the Project
With a view to sustaining the facilities, studies and other activities undertaken during the
implementation of the project and accruing the intended benefits during the project's
operational period, a post completion plan (PCOP) is envisaged and presented
separately for Punjab and Sindh. The detailed PCOP is available separately, of which a
summary is given below:
Post Completion Operation Plan
Regarding post-completion operation plan of FOs, it is proposed that the proposed
project implementation Assistance Consultants (PIAC) will undertake an after care
training programme comprising of following:
o     Book keeping/accounting training
o     Advise on better agronomic practices to increase productivity
o     Advise on tubewell and soil/water management practices, and upkeep of
irrigation water delivery efficiencies
o     Curb monopolization of FOs by individuals, or large landholders/farmers, by the
identification of local activists, to resolve dispultes and maintain water distribution
equity at the CTWs by taking measures such ais transferring the CTW land in the
name the FO
o     Provide a legal cover to these FOs, by studying the possibility of
incorporation/registration of these FOs under the PIDA Acts.
Physical and Environmental Monitoring
o     Monitor key variables such as water table, water quality, and soil salinity, etc.
o     Continue operation and calibration of the Hydrogeological Model
o     Continue the Impact Assessment Studies at peariodic intervals (Rabi/Kharif) by
monitoring key indicators such as crop yields, cropping intensities, etc.
o     Program the implementation of the Drainage Improvement Plan, and the
relocation of the remaining SCARP staff.
Facilities Created and Studies Carried out under the Project: These are as under:
(a)   Facilities and Organizations Created
(i)   Private Tubewells (PTWs) installed by individual farmers.
(ii)   Farmer Organizations (FOs) established for installation and operation of
Community Tubewells (CTWs) and subsequent management and
distribution of tubewell water.
(iii)   CTWs installed and operated by WUJAs.
(iv)   Watercourses improved with the help of Water Users Associations
(WUAs) in Punjab sub project area in Punjab sub project area.
(b)   Studies Carried Out



61
(i)   Physical Monitoring of Hydrogeological Parameters including study of the
effect on soil fertility by using marginal quality groundwater.
(ii)   Impact and Environmental Monitoring.
(iii) Plan for Preventing Intrusion of SGW into FGW Areas.
2.8   Operational Experience To Date:
With this project's implementation, farmers have become familiar with the technology and
their management. Facilities that were earlier available only in major towns, i.e. tubewell
boring and availability of spare parts, trained mechanics, and POL have now becoming
increasingly available in the project area. The operational experience has been
discussed in details in PCOP regarding;
- installation of private and community tubewells
-  maintenance of improved watercourses, land leveling and demonstration plots in
Punjab
-     development and training of farmer organizations



62
Borrower's Comments on the ciraft ICR
No.         280             /DGA/OFWM/
DIRECTORATE GENERAL AGRICULTURE
(WATER MANAGEMENT), P U N J A B
Dated Lahore, the 18/5/1998
To
Mr. Usman Qamar
Task Team Leader
Second SCARP Transition Project,
World Bank Resident Mission.
Islamabad.
Subject:       SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT (CR. 2257-PAK) DRAFT.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICES
A copy of draft Implementation Completion Report of Second SCARP Transition
Project has been received through Ministry of Finance and Economic Aflfairs (Economic Affairs
Division). Islamabad This is found to be a very comprehensive document which focuses all
aspects of the project. Efforts of the team preparing it are, therefore, commendable.
The finding that FOs established under the project are in their infancy stage and need for continuation of
after-care and training programs is duly endorsed Assistance from the Bank will help to ensure their sustainability.
Continuation of project activities with enhanced scope under the IDA assisted Punjab Private Sector Groundwater
Development Project can support viability of the Farmer Institutions established under SSTP as well. After-
care/training support program of the former scheme should, therefore, adidress the needs for later project.
As regard the recovery of cost of construction material is concerned, it is being actively pursued. It is
anticipated that as the recovery plan, jointly prepared by OFWM and revenue staff, reaches to its final stages of
implementation, satisfactory recovery level would be achieved.
The key lessons learned during project implementation, as indicated in the ICR, like: ensuring quality
control with involvement of all stakeholders, effective social mobilization program along with multi-disciplinary
approach, training of = farmers, consideration for developing credit lines to help small farmers to pay up-front
contributions, internal and external monitoring impact evaluation right front the initiation of the project, continuity
of competent and motivated key project staff, etc. would help in better designing of future projects of this kind.
There are, however, no specific comments on the above said Implementation Completion Report.
Sd/-
DIRECTORATE GENERAL
AGRICULTURE (W M.)



63
From:         Shafqat Masood
Project Director
Second SCARP Transition Project
I&P Departnent, GO Punjab
Lahore.
To:           Mr. Usman Qamar
Projects Advisor
World Bank Resident Mission
Islamabad.
No:   983/T-61 Date 21-4-98
Subject: COMMENTS ON IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
- SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT (CREDIT 2257-PAK)
This is to inform you that ICR as received has been reviewed. It is a useful document which contains all necessary
information about the project. Some minor amendments were conveyed to you on telephone and we have no further
observations to offer.
-sd-
PROJECT DIRECTOR
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
2204281150 PDLTRS DOC/ma



64
NO: WR (W. W) 12 (P&D) 1/88
GOVERNMENT OF SINDH
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
(WATER & POWER SECTION)
KARACHI DATED 24THAPRIL. 1998.
To,
Mr. Usman Qamar,
Task Team Leader,
SSTP, World Bank Mission,
20-A, Ramna 5/1
Islamabad
SUBJECT :-SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT (CR. 2257-PAK):DRAFT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR).
I am directed to refer to your letter dated 31-3 -1998 or the subject cited above, and to state that this
department endorses the comments of the Project Director, SCARP North Rohri on the subject matter
which were Communicated to you vide their letter No.PD/SNR/DB/370 dated 10-4-1998 (copy is
enclosed for your ready reference). As regards, the status of implementation of the post completion
Operation plan(PC-I) it is stated that the I&P Department forwarded the PC-I for physical and
Environment
As regards, the status of implementation of the post-completion operation plan (PC- I) it is stated that, the
P&D Department for approval but some discrepancy were found in the PC-I after examination in light of
World bank's Aide-memoire (Nov: 1997). The cost was also on higher side therefore the same was
returned to I&P Department on 15-4-1998 for resubmission on realistic basis.
copy is forwarded to the:
1.    Secretary I&P Department, Govt. of Sindh w.r to their
letter No.10/255-SO(Dev)/90-Vol-II dt. 14-4-1998.
2.     The Provincial Coordinator - NDP, Deptt. Karachi.
3.    PS to ACS (Dev:) P&D Department.
ASSISTANT CHIEF (W&P)



65
NO:PDISNR/DB/ 370
Office of the Project Director
SCARP North fRohri,
Nausheroferoze, dated April 10, 1998.
To
The Chief Engineer, Irrigation Development in Sindh, Hyderabad.
Subject: SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT (CR.2257.PAK)
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR}
Reference:    World Bank letter dated March 31,1993.
The First Draft of the iCR of the above Project received from Mr. Usman Qamar Task Team Leader,
SSTP World Bank vide his letter referred to above addressed to me and others alongwith copy to you and
all concerned, have been reviewed and I offer my comments as under:
i) A consolidated Borrower's evaluation report 10-11 Pages covering both Punjab and Sindh Sub-Projects
including the post completion operational plan to be included in the implementation completion report
(ICR) prepared by Mr. Altaf lqbal, Consultant World Bank for ICR received vide his letter of April 01, 1998
addressed to me with copy to Mr. Usman Qamar World Bank and all others (copy attached) have been
reviewed and is found appropriate for inclusion as appendix B in the ICR with the following corrections:
Page l: in Para 1.1 in the last line the year 1968 may be Corrected as 1978 and figure of
grass area may be corrected as 0.725 million acres instead of '.326 million
acres.
Page 4: At She end of Para 2.2 after the world closed add the following "However in
addition of CTW's in Sindh option of allowing subsidy for private tubewells
installation was continued in view of the poor, socio-economic conditions.
Page 4: in line 13 of Para 2.3 after the world (WUAS) add word "in Punjab'.
Page 5: Under Para 2.3 (iii) last line may be corrected as "In view of the different socio
economic conditions in Sindh only 428 CTWs out of 477 targeted and 343 private
tubewells of 1 cusec capacity could be installed. Total tubewells of one cusec
was proposed as 719.
Page 6: in line 6 Para (iv) delete the worlds "expected to be".
ii) As regards the status of implementation of the post completion operation plan,
the PC I for covering out the different physical monitoring, impact evaluation and environmental
studies have been prepared and submitted to Planning and Development Deptt: Govt: of Sindh
by Irrigation & Power Deptt: in January 1998. The approval of the same is still awaited.
iii) The draft ICR is a complete, up to date and informative documents and needs no further comments
except that 8t Page V of She ICR in She first Para under heading introduction the floured. 280 STWs may
be corrected as 382 STWs.
This is for your kind Information and further necessary action for transmitting to
World bank and other concerned quarters.
(N. M. MATHRANI)
PROJECT director
SCARP NORTH ROHRI
NAUSHEROFEROZE, SINDH
Copy to:
Mr. Usman Qamar, Task Team Leader, SSTP, World Bank Missions Islamabadfor inform at ion.



66
Agricultural Development Bank
of Pakistan
Head Office 1, Faisal Avenue, P.O.Box No.1400 ISIAMABAD
Telex:5618 ADBP PK., Cable: "Agrifin"
No. TA/FAW/WB(17)11997-185                                      April 16,1998
FAX MESSAG!E
To; Mr. Usman Qamar,
Task Team Leader, SSTP,
The World Bank Islamabad Office,
20-A Ramna 5/1, Islamabad.
Fax No. 279648-9
From: Riaz Mehmood Qureshi
Director,
Technical Assistance Departnent,
ADBP Head Office, Islamabad,
Fax No. 202044
Subject: SECOND SCARP TRANSITION Project
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION R'EPORT
Dear Sir,
Kindly refer to your letter of March 31, 1998 regarding comments of ADBP on the Draft
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and to inform you that paras No. 13-18 and 22 of the
draft ICR pertaining to ADBP do not need any modification.
The ADBP do net endorse ICR views at para Nos 26 under the head Major Factors Effecting the
Projects The staff of ADBP tried their best to integrate the activities. Meetings were organized
from time to time to improve coordination between the project staff f of the agencies . MCO's and
other staff f of ADBP attended the designated meetings of project management cells and
extended all efforts for proper implementation of the Project. Some basic reasons for the weak
performance of the project nave been already elaborated in paras 13 and 22 of the ICR. The other
factors which adversely affected ADBP's performance were that (i) The project was confined to
specific villages (ii) The list of farmers provided by the local project coordinator covered ADBP
defaulters to whom ADBP was not able to finance (iii) Highest amount of subsidy given by
Government for tubewell installation,
Despite all these factors we are of the view that the tubewell installed under this project had
highly beneficial effect on expansion of agriculture in these areas and sharp increase in farm
production and income of rural people. Anyhow the above factors have provided lessons for us
for better completion of future projects.
Yours faithfully,
(RIAZ MEHMOOD QURESHI)
( Director T&D)
16/4/98



67
Appendix C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Second SCARP Transition Project
(Credit 2257-PAK)
Financial and Economic Analysis
A. Production Impact
1.           At appraisal, it was assumed that the project would increase agricultural
production through: (i) replacement of STWs with PTWs that would provide more timely and
reliable water supply; and (ii) improvements of watercourse and precision land leveling, that
would reduce water losses and increase irrigation efficiencies. It was also assumed that: the
project would result in a higher growth of PTWs; cropping intensities and crop yields will be
higher as compared to the without project situation; and farms not installing PTWs would have a
decline in cropping intensities and crop yields, as STWs become derelict.
2.     The table below shows that in Punjab the actual growth of PTWs not supported by the
project was much higher than projected at appraisal. In fact, there are reasons to believe that the
growth of PTWs in the project area would have been even higher without the project resulting in
over-investment. The CTWs serve an average of about 16 farners, have higher utilization
factors, and lower unit pumping costs (see Tables 3 and 4 ). The CTWs thus curbed the growth
of non-project PTWs. The situation in the Sindh project area is different. Only about 250 PTWs
were installed by farmers without project support during the 6 years of project implementation.
This suggests that the growth of PTWs would have been small without the project.
Description           Appraisal Estimate                     ICR 1/
Punjab           Sindh           Punjab            Sindh
Project PTWs by  13,000 PTWs      1,800 PTWs      2,210 CTWs         428 CTWs
Year-6 (Nos.)                                     2,688 PTWs        1,363 PTWs
Incremental No.       3,900             540            12,800            250
of PTWs without
project by year-6
I/ During the MTR, for Punjab the target of PTWs was reduced to 2,600, and provision was made for 2,100 CTWs.
For Sindh, the overall target for tubewells was not changed but a target of 475 CTWs was fixed.
Agricultural benefits
3.    Punjab. The overall cropping intensity in the Punjab project area increased from 141
percent in 1992/93 (baseline) to 159 percent in 1996/97. Overall yields of major crops increased
(wheat by 7.6 percent, rice by 8.6 percent, and sugarcane by 5.4 percent). Given the high natural
growth of PTWs (unsupported by the project) these increases in cropping intensities, and crop
yields are not attributable to the project interventions only. Since the monitoring and evaluation
studies could not identify appropriate control groups, the benefits of project interventions have



68
been estimated as follows:
*  Benefits from Watercourse improvement. The main agricultural benefits of the project
arise from water savings from watercourse improvements. Studies carried out as part of past
watercourse improvement projects and ICR mission's estimates are that watercourse
improvements result in increase of about 26 percent increase in on-farm water supplies,
which in turn increase cropping intensities by 1-17 percent and crop yield increases (9
percent for rice, 4-63 percent for wheat, 5 to 10 percent for cotton, and 14 to 21 percent for
sugarcane, 4 percent for fruit, and 6 to 46 percent for fo'dder. About 525 watercourses out of
the total 1,800 watercourses in the Punjab project area were improved under the project. A
conservative estimate is that these improvements resulted in about 3 percent increase in
cropping intensity as compared to the without project. Benefits of yield increases have not
been taken in to account because of lack of a suitable control group.
*  Benefits from Private and Community Tubewells. Monitoring and evaluation studies
carried out under the project indicate that the growth of non-project supported PTWs in the
Punjab project area was much higher than estimated at aLppraisal. During FY91/92 to 1997/98
about 12,800 PTWs were installed in the project area without project support. In view of this
situation, no incremental agricultural benefits due to project supported PTWs/CTWs have
been attributed to the project.
4.     Sindh. Impact evaluation studies indicate that the overall cropping intensity in the Sindh
project area increased from 130 percent in 1992/93 (baseline) to 147 percent in 1996/97. Overall
yields of major crops increased (wheat by 14 percent, rice by 12.6 percent, cotton by 33 percent
and sugarcane by 19 percent). As for Punjab, the monitoring and evaluation studies could not
identify appropriate control groups. The without project scenario has been synthesized from data
collected during the ICR mission for farms relying on canal[ water only and those using tubewell
water. The future cropping intensity with project is estimalted to be 5 to 10 percent higher than
without project. As for Punjab, no crop yield increases are attributed to the project because of
lack of a suitable control group. Declines in cropping intensities and crop yields of farms not
installing PTWs without project have also not been taken into account.
5.     Based on the above analysis the appraisal and ICR estimates for cropping intensities and
yields, and incremental production are summarized below:
Cropping Intensities and Yields
Description           Appraisal Estimate                       ICR
Punjab           Sindh            Punjab            Sindh
Increase in            6%               9%                3%              7.5%
cropping
intensity 1/
Increase in crop      9 to 12          7 to 10            nil              nil
yields (percent)
1/
1/ Difference between with and without project at full development.



69
Net Incremental Production in 000 tons
Crops                       Punjab                            Sindh
SAR             ICR              SAR              ICR
Rice Basmati           46               17
Cotton                                                   6                5
Wheat                  65               23               8                5
Fodder (kharif)        41               72               2               12
Fodder (rabi)          85              113               6               25
Sugarcane             502               80               6               16
B. Economic Rate of Return
6.    At appraisal ERRs were estimated at 24 percent for the Punjab subproject, 20 percent for
the Sindh subproject and 24 percent for the overall project. The following assumptions were used
in the analysis:
a)    About 13,000 farms in Punjab and 1,800 in Sindh were expected to invest in installation
of project supported tubewells. Over 80,000 farms families in Punjab and 4,600 in Sindh
were expected to benefit from the project as a result of joint PTWs ownership and sale of
tubewell water.
b)    Decline in yields without project due to deterioration of STWs was not taken into
account;
c)    Project life was assumed to be 20 years. Full development of benefits was assumed in the
tenth year. Replacement cost of PTWs investments was included in the tenth year;
d)    O&M of STWs and PTWs were taken into account in the analysis.
e)    All project investment costs net of taxes and duties, and incremental crop production
costs were taken into account.
f)    Economic farm gate prices for traded goods were valued at import parity for wheat,
maize, and fertilizer, and at export parity for rice, cotton, and sugar cane. Adjustments
were made for freight, handling, processing and quality differentials. Prices of non-traded
inputs and outputs and wage rate for labor were expressed in economic terms by applying
a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9.
7.    The economic analysis undertaken to re-estimate the ERRs is based on the
same assumptions as in the SAR except that:
i)    All cost and benefits have been expressed in June 1997 constant prices; actual
expenditures have been restated in FY97 constant prices by using the MUV indices.
Local costs and unskilled labor have been adjusted to economic prices by applying a SCF
of 0.9. Economic prices used in the analysis are given in Tables 1& Table-2.



70
ii)    In Punjab, without the project the STWs would gradually deteriorate and close by the
year 2001-02.
iii)   In Sindh, at start of the project-1992-93, 238 STWs out of 382 STWs were not in an
operational condition, therefore, closure under without project is assumed similar to as
with project.
iv)   It is assumed that without the project 2 to 3 PTWs wiould have been installed in place of
each CTW installed under the project.
v)    No increase in the groundwater supplies is attributed to the project.
Economic Benefits
8.    The economic benefits of the project include agricultural benefits, and benefits of STWs
replacement with PTWs and CTWs. These are summarized below for Punjab and Sindh.
9.    Agricultural Benefits.
Punjab.
* Benefits from Watercourse improvement: T;hree percent increase in cropping
intensity as compared to the without project (see para 3).
* Benefits from Private and community tubewells. No incremental agricultural
benefits due to project supported PTWs/CTWs have been attributed to the project
(see para 3).
Sindh
*  Cropping intensities 5 to 10 percent higher than without project (see para 4).
10.   Benefits of STWs Replacement with PTWs and CTWs.
Punjab and Sindh
* Replacement of STWs with PTWs yields subsitantial economic benefits because of
lower pumping costs of PTWs. The benefits are even higher if STWs are replaced
with CTWs, which have higher utilization rates and lower investment costs than
PTWs for equivalent pumpage (see Table 3 and 4). Without the project, STWs would
have been replaced with PTWs. Therefore, incremental benefits accrued as the
project supported CTWs, following the MTR.
I1.    The re-estimated ERRs are summarized below for the Project as originally designed as
well as after restructuring as completed:



71
Economic Rate of Return
Description                           Appraisal Estimate           ICR Estimate
.______________    _ERR %                      ERR %
A. Punjab sub project
-- Original Project design                  24                         23
(STWs replaced with PTWs)
-- Restructured project as                 NA                          33
completed (STWs replaced
with PTWs and CTWs)
B. Sindh sub-project
-- Original Project design                  20                         21
(STWs replaced with PTWs)
-- Restructured project as                 NA                          23
completed (STWs replaced
with PTWs and CTWs)
. Overall Project                         24                         29



72
Appendix C
Annex 1
Table 1 Financial & Economic Prices SSTP Punjab Sub Project
DESCRIPTION               UNIT                FINANCIAL  ECONOMIC
I YIELD
Maize                      Rs/Kg                        5.72           5.15
Rice (Paddy)               Rs/Kg                        6.00           7.44
Kharif Fodders             Rs/Kg                        0.24           0.22
Sugarcane                  Rs/Kg                        0.95           0.59
Kharif Vegetables (Others)   Rs/Kg                      4.11           3.70
Wheat                      Rs/Kg                        7.12            8.34
Gram/Oil Seeds             Rs/Kg                       10.69           9.62
Rabi Fodders               Rs/Kg                        0.38            0.34
Rabi Vegetables (Others)   Rs/Kg                        3.80            3.42
Orchards                                                3.92            3.53
2 SEED
Maize                      Rs/Kg                        7.15          6.435
Rice (Paddy)               Rs/Kg                        7.80            9.30
Kharif Fodders             Rs/Kg                        6.40            5.76
Sugarcane                  RsfKg                        0.80            0.74
Kharif Vegetables (Others)   Rs/Kg                      3.25            2.92
Wheat                      Rs/Kg                        8.55           10.43
Gram/Oil Seeds             Rs/Kg                       13.36           12.03
Rabi Fodders               Rs/Kg                       73.00          65.70
Rabi Vegetables (Others)   Rs/Kg                        7.60            6.84
Orchards                   Rs/Years (N.                  150            135
Plants)
3 FERTILIZER                 Rs/Nkg
Fertilizer (N)                                         15.35           16.96
Fertilizer (P)                                         10.07           11.02
Fertilizer (K)                                         13.52           15.48
4 Manual Labor               Rs/Day                        110             99
5 Bullock Labor              Rs/Pair Day                   300            270
6 Tractor Labor              Rs/Hour                       150            150
7 Farm Yard Manure            Rs/40 Kg                      60             54



73
Appendix C
Annex 1
Table 2: Financial & Economic Prices SSTP Sindh Sub Project
DESCRIPTION            UNIT                    FINANCIAL  ECONOMIC
1 YIELD
Cotton                  Rs/Kg                           12.00          14.34
Rice Irri (Paddy)       Rs/Kg                            5.38           6.37
Fodders                 Rs/Kg                            0.33           0.30
Sugarcane               Rs/Kg                            0.95           0.55
Vegetables              Rs/Kg                            2.74           2.47
Wheat                   Rs/Kg                            6.55           7.58
Spices (others)         Rs/Kg                            9.98           8.98
Orchards                Rs/Kg                            3.92           3.53
2 SEED
Cotton                  Rs/Kg                           15.00          13.50
Rice Irri (Paddy)       Rs/Kg                            6.99           7.97
Fodders                 Rs/Kg                            6.59           5.93
Sugarcane               Rs/Kg                            0.88           0.69
Vegetables              Rs/Kg                            3.43           3.08
Wheat                   Rs/Kg                            7.86           9.48
Spices (others)         Rs/Kg                           19.96          17.96
Orchards               Rs/Years                        150.00         135.00
(N.Plants)
3 FERTILIZER              Rs/Nkg
Fertilizer (N)                                          15.35          19.09
Fertilizer (P)                                          10.07          10.46
Fertilizer (K)                                          13.52          15.84
4 Manual Labor           Rs/Day                           90.00          81.00
5 BullockLabor           Rs/PairDay                      225.00         202.50
6 Tractor Labor          Rs/Hour                         135.00         135.00
7 Farm Yard Manure       Rs/40 Kg                         55.00          49.50



74
Appendix C
Annex 1
Table 3: Economic Operating Costs of Tubewells
I Electric                Diesel
Operating Parameters    Unit          Unit    3 Cs      1.5 Cs    1.5 Cs    1.0 Cs
cost   Public    CTW       CTW        PTW
________________________________ (STVW)
Motor Rating                 hp                         30        10        16        12
Utilization                  %                        36%       20%       20%       12%
Utilization                  hr/yr                   3.154      1752      1752      1051
Electricity Consumption      kwh/yr                 70,587    13,070
Diesel Consumption           lit/yr                                       1927       750
Engine Oil                   lit/yr                                         35        21
Operating Costs
Electricity
Long Run Marginal Cost
of electricity              Rs/kwh         3.47    244.9       45.4
Diesel                                       9.68                         18.7       7.3
Engine Oil                  Rs/lit        41.00                           1.4       0.9
Lubricant & Grease          sum/yr                    0A4       0.4       0.4       0.2
Cotton Waste, Other         sum/yr                    0.2       0.1       0.3       0.3
Repair & Maintenance        sum/yr                    5.2       2.8       2.8        1.4
Management & Supervision    sum/yr                   28.8       6.0       6.0       3.8
Total Costs                                          279.5      54.7      29.6       13.9
Capital Cost                                         270.0      62.2      58.1      52.1
Plant Amortization           sum/yr                     18       8.9       8.3       7.4
Unit Operating Costs
Quantity Pumped              AF                      780.0     216.7    216.7       86.6
Quantity Pumped              000m3                   962.1     267.2     267.2     106.9
Operating Cost of Water      Rs/AF                   358.3     252.0     136.6     160.4
Operating Cost of Water      Rs/000m3                290.5    204.3      110.8     130.1
Operating Cost of Water      Rs/hr                    88.6      31.2      16.9      13.2
Unit Amortization Costs
Quantity Pumped              AF                      780.0    216.7    216.7        86.6
Quantity Pumped              000m3                   962.1     267.2     267.2     106.9
Amortization Cost            Rs/AF                    23.1      41.0      38.3      85.9
Amortization Cost            Rs/OOOm3                 18.7      33.3      31.1      69.6
Amortization Cost            Rs/hr                     5.7       5.1       4.7       7.1
Total Unit cost of Pumpage   Rs/AF                   381.4    293.2      174.9    246.3
Total Unit cost of Pumpage   Rs/OOOm3                309.2    237.6      141.8     199.7
Total Unit cost of Pumpage   Rs/hr                    94.3      36.2      21.6      20.3



75
Appendix C
Annex 1
Table 4: Financial Operating Costs of Tubewells
Electric                Diesel
Operating Parameters       Unit      Unit    3 Cs      1.5 Cs    1.5 Cs    1.0 Cs
cost   Public    CTW       CTW       PTW
(STW)
Motor Rating                          hp               30        10        16        12
Utilization                           %              36%       20%       20%       12%
Utilization                         hr/yr           3,154     1,752     1,752     1,051
Electricity Consumption           kwh/yr           70,587    13,070
Diesel Consumption                 lit/yr                               1,927       750
Engine Oil                         lit/yr                                  35        21
Operating Costs
Electricity
Fixed Charges (pvt tws)         Rs/kw    41.0                 3.7
Variable Charges               Rs/kwh    3.31    233.6       43.3
Diesel                             Rs/lit  10.05                         19.4       7.5
Engine Oil                        Rs/lit  45.00                          1.4       0.9
Lubricant & Grease               sum/yr               0.4      0.4       0.4       0.2
Cotton Waste, Other              sum/yr               0.2      0.1       0.3       0.3
Repair & Maintenance             sum/yr               5.8      3.1       3.1        1.4
Management & Supervision         sum/yr              32.0       6.7      6.7        3.8
Total Costs                                          272.0      57.2      31.6      14.1
Capital Cost                        Sum              300.0      77.4      74.8      60.6
Plant Amortization                sum/yr              20.0      11.1      10.7       8.7
Unit Operating Costs
Quantity Pumped                      AF              780.0    216.7    216.7        86.6
Quantity Pumped                   000m3              962.1     267.2    267.2      106.9
Operating Cost of Water            Rs/AF             348.8    264.0      145.7     162.7
Operating Cost of Water         Rs/000m3             282.8    214.0      118.1     131.9
Operating Cost of Water             Rs/hr             86.3      32.6      18.0      13.4
Unit Amortization Costs
Quantity Pumped                      AF              780.0    216.7    216.7        86.6
Quantity Pumped                   000m3              962.1    267.2    267.2       106.9
Amortization Cost                  Rs/AF              25.6      51.1     49.3      100.0
Amortization Cost               Rs/000m3              20.8      41.4      40.0      81.1
Amortization Cost                   Rs/hr              6.3       6.3       6.1       8.2
Total Unit cost of Pumpage         Rs/AF             374.4    315.0      195.0    262.7
Total Unit cost of Pumpage      Rs/000rn3            303.6    255.4      158.1     213.0
Total Unit cost of Pumpage          Rs/hr             92.6      39.0      24.1      21.7



MAP SECTION



Nausharo
Feroze O                                                        PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
-                                                 NORTH ROHRI PILOT PROJECT
t  No Nousharo   .  X /o' t                               ~~~SIN DH SUB-PROJECT AREA
id -   W.g<,29tDEPTH OF WATER TABLE (APRIL 1997)
t . '  ,t,,>//,/t                           AND GROUNDWATER QUALITY
GROUNDWATER QUAITY ZONES:
//  /                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~USEABLE
[I] MARGINAL
HAZARDOUS
DIRECTION OF NATURAL GROUNDWATER MOVEMENT
---CANALS
-                                 I                              -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRIBUTARIES
PROJECT BOUNDARY
t \v. HIGHLY                                     .                      .'-, = UNIT BOUNDARIES
. ' . . al SALINE                   s                                .o0 CMES AND TOWNS
, \ . ,5 WATER                                                       rQ jV I I RAILROADS
WATER TABLE DEPTH       AREA IN THOUSANDS
APRIL 1997:              OF ACRES
[  Les then 5feet              8.8             2.7
5 - D o feet              219.3          67.28
Th      D .  Sfeet                56.3          17-27
<  Gop  dmrGreater th.. 15 feet   41.6          12 75
I          -            I         -             IIC
J~~~~~~
/
Nawabshch
0   2        ~~        ~~~4  6
MILES-



IBRD 22530
P AK I S TA  N
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
PUNJAB SUB-PROJECT AREA
DEPTH OF WATER TABLE (APRIL 1 989)
AND GROUNDWATER QUALITY
GROUNDWATER QUALITY:
mSafe water qualfity zones
IZMarginal water quality zones
ZZHazardous wafer quaility zones
WATER TABLE DEPTH (ft.) OCTOBER 1988:
-TILess than 5 feet
m 5-0O feet
IIGreater than 1 0 feet
RECLAMATION SCHEME AREAS
1 Pindi Bhatfion   7 Zafarwal
2 Chichoki Mallian  8 Hofizabad
3 Chuharkana       9 Khanqah Dogran
4 Jaranwala        10 Sangla Hill
5 Shahkot          11 Beranwola
6 Shadman          12 Horse Sheikh
Direction of natural
groundwater movement
Cainals
District Boundaries
- Unit Boundaries
0   Cities and towns
---Railroads
0  2    4   6
MILES
~~~ TWd~~~~i            W.I B-- h 
-y 1~dg_ f - A. I,. .~  -yI.,,!Mry., -y   ~,-,t.-  f  h b-d.6-JANUARY 1991



Nausharo
Feroze
0
P A K I S T A N
To Nausharo  ,                                      SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
SINDH SUB-PROJECT AREA
DEPTH OF WATER TABLE (APRIL 1989)
AND GROUNDWATER QUALITY
GROUNDWATER QUALITY:
II k  <   Safe water quality zones
I      1 <  m   Safe to marginal water quality zones
II  , \A.Marginal water quality zones
II ,     ; -Marginal to hazardous water quality zones
.<II ,  = Hazardous water quality zones
HIGHLY X |   \    WATER                               [=No information available
WATER/                                    WATER TABLE DEPTH (ft.)          AREAS IN
THAR                   OCTOBER 1988:            THOUSAND ACRES:                .
DESERi F1
:i EX         ;Less than 5 feet     7.72           2.37
\L I 5- 10 feet                  80.44           24.70
B tt   Daulatpur            t~t            ~      B'                         1  10 - 15 feet                73.17           22.40
LI    \t   Greater than 15 feet  164.43           50.47
l ( \    &   ) \4             \                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOTAL  325.76    100.00
0    2    4    6 t             y<- -- Direction of natural groundwater movement
Canals
MILES
Al exclusiwly2for the nwnien p oh5'=   Depth to water table
A-A Cross sections
;  En=nceCmporohon.Project boundary
G or pv edommUnit boundaries
0    Cities and towns
--+R  ailroads
To Khairpur
Sakran,
~ ffen    o us si,rhe Wo rld R Bn k od!s    stff N
F5 - 5f9CO9 -O   Th. rhd,,.m,-,o:-n  -d and h'0
f<th,Wold Bank -d IO  reubo&Tnc Coprr,                                                                                                    N
'0



- ~~~~~[ROD 225280
ISLAMIC                                              SECOND                              ~~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN
REP.~        ~              ~ ~ ECN  SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
(  \w                                                  ~~~~~~SUB-PROJECT AREAS
OF  IRAN               - /              \ 
50    100   150    200    250   300    350   AOOD KILOMETERS
N                     IA                                                                                   5          25IL5/TAJIKISTAN
A F G H A N I S T,A  N                                               ~                                    N
/7'                                                           pikh(Nkhtrl                                                                                                                      _A
Kh.                                                                                                            T..';d. --  1.-        ir>
-AN  'PRO'VIN                                                                                           N  17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0%,'
BAtOCH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5T~~~~ 
jyrbot    - .                                         *Kolot                                                                                            eKoKh-dlR -Ipirdo
.0                                                                                                                                                     boMb                  0,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KH
20  0  7  BA! OCHISTAN    PROVINCE               .  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w   Zbob   /                       / Barroge, (~~~~~~~~~  ADOCkN                         ,--'      GiI~~~~~~kiM
/          0              DodI,~i~    004a%.Hodaorn,                                         Cha,hna'  ,o--
{a  0                                                                             ,'a.-v                    ISAd
~~~~Q,  D- Gh..; Kh.,       PROVIaCE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~
KhzX                                                                                                                       R- ,'1   AS*        /'
00                                        -0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00~~~~~~~~~6h,
IN DN
Ka-hi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DoaGoz                                                                MVJh4C,
~~J ~~~~~Hy4q ab.q,' ~ ~ ~                                   (hn~aogaa.0    R,o
Booro 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Borrogo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
RFzoaF~~~~~~ongw4r Mote.  Jhcng                1.~~~~~~~~~, B~k
@Korocl,b  P    Nowo solo'                                                                                                           /          NDRINS.PROINCE-BONDARIE
baOrsK   N-                                                                                                                                                                  CHINAorf    ow'
Ohotto  iHyd4obo /  9.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           Bohowoloagor ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   Pang Dan,~MY 99



IBRD 29539
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
PUNJAB SUB-PROJECT AREA
DEPTH OF WATER TABLE (JUNE 1997)
AND GROUNDWATER QUALITY
GROUNDWATER QUALITY ZONES
M&ARGINAL
USAEARDOUS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
~~~~~~~~~~~~6   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~=UNIT BOUNDARIES
0  ITIES AND TOWNS
-.-.-RAILROADS
WATER TABLE DEPTH
JUNE 1997:
F\Less than 5 feet
4                                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51-IOfeet~
1rae hnI0 feet
RECLAMATION SCHEME AREAS:
@~ Pidi Bhottion
(39 )Chicheki MaIlion
Sheikcupr  0        <                                        Chuherk.ne
() Shkot
(69Shodmos
-               Q~~~~C) Zoforwl
I X                                                                                                                                 C9-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)39 Khonqoh Dogron
QL-J Sang1e Hill
~jIHorseSheiksh
drnnhs,adrI2n ah$mafllernomaeo                                                                                                                                                               IE
MlAY 1998



