Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C=iZ~~ ZZ- 7-8
Report No. 9184-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
May 9, 1991
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Countvy Department I
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Rupees (Rs)
US$1                     Rs 22.5
Rs 1               -     US$0.044
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Imperial Units                      Metric Units
1 inch (in)                  =      25.4 millimeters (mm)
1 foot (ft)                  =      30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                  =      0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                  -      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                  =      0.405 hectares (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)        -      259 hectares
1 pound (lb)                 -      0.454 kilograms (kg)
I long ton (lg ton)          c      1.016 metric tons (t)
1 cubic foot/second (cfs)   =       0.0283 cubic meters/second
(m3/sec)
-     28.32 liters/second (1/sec)
1,233.5 cubic meters ('3)
Pakistani Units       Imperial Units                    Metric Units
1 maund         =    82.3 lbs (0.0367 lg ton)   =    37.32 kg
26.8 maunds     =    2,205 lbs                     =    1.0 t
27.2 maunds     =    1.0 lg ton (2,240 lbs)        =    1,016 kg
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



ROR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AD8P        -Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
ACS            Additional Chief Secretary
AEB         - Area Electricity Board
AO             Agricultural Officer
APB         - Agricultural Pass Boo;
CCA         - Culturable Command Area
DC          - Deputy Commissioner
DGAE        - Director General Agricultural Extension
DCOFWM      - Directorate General of On-Farm Water Management
ECNEC       - Executive Comuittee of the National Economic Council
ERR         .Economic Rate of Return
FGW         -Fresh Groundwater
FMCO           Functional Mobile Credit Officer
GOP         - Government of Pakistan
GOPunjab      CGovernment of Punjab Province
GOSindh     - Government of Sindh Province
ICB         -  International Competitive Bidding
IIMI        -  International Irrigation Management Institute
IPM            Integrated Pest Management
ISR         - Irrigation System Rehabilitation
KV          - Kilovolt
LCB         * Local Competitive Bidding
M           - Million
MCO         - Mobile Credit Officer
NPV         -Net Present Value
NRP         - North Rohri Project
O&M         - Operation and Maintenance
OFHM        -On-Farm Water Management
PACC        -  Project Area Coordination Committee
PAD         - Provincial Agricultural Department
PASSCO      - Pakistan Agricultural Storage and Services Corporation
PC-1        -  Planning Commission Proforma-l
PIA         - Project Implementation Assistance
PPC         -Provincial Policy Committee
PD          - Project Director
PID         -Provincial Irrigation Department
PFU         - Project Field Unit
PMC         - Project Management Cell
PTW         -Private Tubewell
RAP         * Revised Action Program
REP         -Rural Electrification Project
SCARP       -Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SCF         - Standard Conversion Factor
SDO         -Sub-Divisional Officer
SE          -Superintending Engineer
SGW         - Saline Ground Water
SNR         - SCARP North Rohri
SOE         - Statement of Expenditure
STPP        -SCARP Transition Pilot Project
SSTP        -Second SCARP Transition Project
STW         - SCARP Tubewell
TW          -Tubewell
WAPDA       - Water and Power Development Authority
WUA         - Water User Association
XEN         - Executive Engineer
GIDSARY
Command     - Area receiving irrigation water
Watercourse - Irrigation distribution system at -!n farm level offtaking
from a canal
Kharif      -  Sumer crop (mid-April to mid-Octobert
Rabi        - Winter crop (mid-October to mid-April)
Chak        -Term used in Punjab for the lowest order of irrigation command
Deh         -Term used in Sindh for the lowest order of irrigation command
Doab        - Lasnd between rivers
Pucca       -  Permanent (a term used for masonry structures)
Katcha      - Temporary
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only 'I the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wo.,u Bank authorization.



PAIISTAN
SECOND SCARE TRANSITION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pairs No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...........................       i-iti
I. BACKGROUND.                                                     1
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT.                                               4
A. Agriculture.                                                4
B. Water Resource Development and Management                   5
C. Groundwater Potential and Development                       5
D. Government Policy and Bank Group Strategy                   5
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement.                              6
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                               7
A. The Punjab Subproject Area.                                 7
B. The Sindh Subproject Area.                                  8
IV. THE PROJECT ..........................................         10
A. Project Objectives .10
B. Project Description .11
C. Project Cost ...............     ........     ....         20
D. Project Financing .21
E. Procurement .23
F. Disbursement .24
G. Project Accounts and Audit .25
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .25
A. Roles of Implementing Agencies .25
B. Project Coordination and Implementation                    28
VI. PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES. FARM INCOME.
COST RECOVERY   ..30
A. Production .30
B. Marketing and Prices .32
C. Farm Income Analysis .34
D. Cost Recovery.                                             35



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
VII.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT.
AND  RISKS   ............................................    37
A. Production Impact ....................                    37
B.    Economic  Analysis   ................................  37
C.    Sensitivity  Analysis  .............................   39
D.    Environmental  Impact  .............................   39
E.    Project  Risks   ....................................  40
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........            41
AENNEXES
1. Meteorological Data
2.  Cost Savings on O&M Budget of SCARP Tubewells Due to the Project
3. Terms of Reference for Project Implementation Assistance Consultants
4. Terms of Reference for Hydrogeological Studies Consultants
5. Terms of Reference for Monitoring and Impact Evaluation Studies
Consultants
6.  Detailed Cost Tables
7.  Financing Plan
8.  Disbursements
9.  Financial and Economic Prices
10.  Distribution of Farm Sizes
11.  Farm Budget Analysis
12.  Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
Charts
1. Project Organization and Coordination - Punjab Subproject
2.  Project Organization and Coordination - Sindh Subproject
3.  Project Implementation Schedule
Maps
IBRD 22528
IBRD 22529
IBRD 22530
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Pakistan in June 1990. The mission comprised Messrs. J. Mohamadi, P. Aklilu,
U. Qamar, Ms. H. Lee and Mr. M. Awan (IDA), and Messrs. L. Drury, S. Solomon
and Anwar ul Haq (consultants). Mr. H. Thavaraj (IDA) was task manager for
the preparation of the report.



PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROWCT SUMMARY
Borrower      : Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries : About 85,000 farm families in Punjab and Sindh Provinces
Amount           IDA Credit: SDR 14.8 million  (US$20 M equivalent)
Terms         : Standard, with 35 years maturity
-n- lending
terms    : The Government would on-lend US$8.6 million equivalent to
Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) for 15 years
including a three year grace period, with interest at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate. Subloans to farmers
would be for 8 years including two years grace period, at a
positive real rate of return (under the Islamic banking
system). The Government would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Description   : The proposed six year project (FY92-97) is designed to
support the Government's comprehensive SCARP (salinity
control and reclamation project) transition program to
replace Government operated SCARP tubewells (STWs) pumping
fresh groundwater in Pakistan with private tubewells (PTWs).
The proposed project is a follow up of the SCARP Transition
Pilot Project (STPP) being successfully implemented in a
pilot area within the usable groundwater areas of SCARP-I in
Punjab. The proposed project comprises two sub-projects, one
in Punjab and one in Sindh. The main objectives of the
project are to: (a) increase agricultural production through
improved and timely availability of supplementary irrigation;
(b) maintain an appropriate groundwater table to prevent
waterlogging and salinity; (c) remove the budgetary burden of
operation and maintenance (O&M) and replacement expenditures
on STWs by replacing them with PTWs; (d) test the viability
of SCARP transition in Sindh; and (e) prepare a follow-up
project for larger scale replacement of STWs. To achieve
these objectives, the project would comprise: (i) replacement
of 1,346 STWs in Punjab and 380 STWs in Sindh, through
installation of 14,800 PTWs by farmers in both provinces;
(ii) improvement of about 500 watercourses in Punjab to
facilitate interfarm distribution and sharing of pumped
groundwater by PTWs jointly owned by small farmers; (iii)
provision of consultants to assist project implementation, in
the preparation of hydrogeological and impact tvaluation
studies, and future SCARP transition projects; and (iv)
training.



ii -
B$pks         : Unless the PTWs are in place at the time the Government stops
operating the STWs, productior. losses, waterlogging and
salinity could occur. Farmers' response to SCARP transition
tested under the STPP has been very encouraging. However,
experience under STPP has been mainly with electric PTWs
which were provided with costly infrastructure and highly
subsidized electric connections, whereas under the proposed
project, mostl'y diesel PTWs are envisaged. Since diesel
tubewell technology is widely known in Pakistan, the risk of
farmers not investing in diesel PTWs is not high. Moreover,
the provision of financial incentives and credit facilities
(also available for electric PTWs) would accelerate adoption
of diesel PTWs. However, since the financial incentives are
only 54X of those under STPP, close monitoring of farmer
response is necessary. Therefore, an annual review of the
tubewell incentives would be carried out. A second risk
comes from adoption of programs tested in Punjab to the
different socioeconomic conditions of Sindh, which is why
this component is a pilot operation. To avert the risk of
possible failure in project coordination resulting in late
deliveries of incentives and services to farmers, strong
organizational setups have been proposed with consultants to
assist with project implementation and monitoring. These
organizations have the mechanism to closely monitor progress
in implementation and to intervene when problems are
encountered. A provision for a mid-term review provides a
mechanism Eor adjusting project design based upon initial
experience.
Estimated Cost:
Project Cost Summary
LOCAl     Eo_reig     Total
--------- (US$ N) ---------
Private Tubewells
(including installation)      7.74       18.39      26.13
Watercourse Improvement        8.27       0.65       8.92
Froject Implementation         1.43       -          1.43
Groundwater & Future
SCARP Transition Studies       1.16       0.29       1.45
Project Impact Evaluation      0.28       0.05       0.33
Project Management             0.80       -          0.80
Tralning                       0.04       -          0.04
Equ:,pant & Vehicles           0.71 .0,13            0.84
Base Cost                  20.43       19.51      39.94
'Physical contingencies     0.38        0.04       0.42
Price contingencies         41                     LI1
Sub-total                   4.50        4.02       8.52
Total project cost                       23.3       iLd



- lli -
FinancinaPl:
Local     Foreign    .Tota
------ (US$ M) --------
Governuent                   1".32        2.37      13.69
ADBP (credit)                 2.14        -          2.14
Farmers - Cash                1.14        8.89      10.03
- Labor               2.60        -          2.60
IDA                          10,22        2.78      20.00
Total                     &LE        ,2.0        484
Estimated Disbursement:
EX: 22        2X    94    2X    96        X
- ------------  (US$ M) ---------------
Annual           0.4   3.1   3.5   4.5   4.1   4.0   0.4
Cumulative       0.4   3.5   7.0  11.5  15.6  19.6  20.0
Rate of RetuA2 :     24X



PAK=STAN
SECQND SCARP TRANSITIONPROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Salinlty control and reclamation grogram.  Expansion of the
irrigation system of the Indus Basin without adequate drainage facilities has
led to widespread waterlogging and salinity, threatening the agricultural
potential of irrigated areas. By the 1950s, large areas in the Indus basin
became waterlogged and soil salinity increased, adversely affecting
productivity of fertile lands. To control the "twin menaces" of waterlogging
and salinity, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) embarked on a series of
Salinity Control and Roclamation Projects (SCARPs) in the late 1950s. The
projects aimed at lowering the groundwater table by providing "vertical
drainage" through large capacity, deep (60-140 liters per second capacities
and of depths of 40-120 m) tubewells. A total of 36 SCARP projects have been
implemented so far, covering a gross irrigated area of about 3.7 million ha.
Under these projects, about 11,000 SCARP tubewells (STWs) have been installed
in fresh groundwater (FGW) areas, and 2,000 in saline groundwater (SGW) areas.
In SGW areas, th.e STWs provide subsurface drainage relief, whereas in FGW
areas they also provide supplementary irrigation water for conjunctive use
with canal water. Farmers in the tail reaches of canals receive less canal
supplies and consequently would be more dependent on supplemental irrigation
from groundwater. SIWs in both FGW and SGW areas are owned and operated by
the Provincial Governments. Bank involvement in this program has been limited
to the SCARP Mardan Project (Cr. 0877-PAK) involving subsurface (tile)
drainage instead of tubewells and the SCARP VI Project (Cr. 0754-PAK), with
STWs in saline groundwater areas only.
1.02      Performance of the SCARPs. While the SCARPs have generally been
successful in meeting their objective of maintaining the groundwater table at
appropriate levels and providing a supplementary source of irrigation for
conjunctive use with canal supplies, their performance has declined over time.
The main causes of this declining performance include poor management,
inappropriate designs and construction materials, and inadequate availability
of funds for operation and maintenance (O&M). These factors have resulted in
frequent breakdowns and poor performance of the STWs, which in turn have led
to reduced pumpage (which in Punjab, is about 50X of the original design
discharge) and rising groundwater tables. The O&M costs of the STWs have
increased manyfold over the years due to rapidly increasing power tariff and
maintenance and replacement requirements. Currently, the STWs absorb about
55X of the total O&M expenditure in the irrigation sector, but account for
only 0l of the irrigation water supplies, compared to 29% from private
tubewells (PTWs) and 612 from canals. In FY90, total O&M expenditures on STWs
in Punjab and Sindh were Rs 170 million (M) and Rs 105 M respectively; this is
about 20Z of what would be required for adequate O&M, i.e. about Rs 100,000
per STW. Furthermore, with the increase in the O&M expenditures, the gap
between expenditures and recoveries from irrigation water charges has widened
because the provincial governments have found it difficult to increase water
charges in pace with rising O&M costs. The fiscal burden of the SCARPs has
thus become unsustainable.



- 2 -
1.03      Emergence of Rrivate tubewells.  While the performance of the SCARPs
has declined over time, their demonstration effect coupled with the
introduction of low cost PTW technology has induced farmers to install PTWs.
To date, over 250,000 PTWs have been installed in the country. These
tubewells (TWs) are low capacity (7-28 liters per second) and pump from depths
of 6-10 m. The growth of PTWs in FGW areas has partially compensated for the
deterioration of STWs, and has helped to maintain the groundwater table at
appropriate depths while providing su )plementary water for conjunctive use
with canal water. PTWs have three advantages over STWs: (i) the qua'lty of
maintenance and care of PTWs are better under private operation; (ii) since
the quality of groundwater in general is better in the higher aquifer used by
PTWs, the buildup of salts in the soil would be reduced (para 7.09); and (iii)
farmers have complete control over the timing and use of supplemental
irrigation water.
1.04      The concept of SCARP transition.  In view of the increasing fiscal
burden of the STWs and encouraging growth of PTWs, in 1979, the Revised Action
Program for Irrigated Agriculture (RAP') (study financed by UNDP and executed
by the Bank) recommended transfer of responsibility for future groundwater
development in FGW areas to the private sector, and replacement by PTWs of
existing STWs - in general terms called "SCARP Transition". The Government
endorsed the RAP recommendations, and in 1980, as part of its revised National
Agricultural Policy (NAP), announced that future development of TWs in FGW
areas would be entrusted to the private sector, and carried out studies to
replace STWs in FGW areas by small capacity PTWs. However, since farmers have
no direct interest in installing PTWs in areas where groundwater is unsuitable
for irrigation, the Government decided to retain the responsibility for
installing STWs or tile (pipe) drainage, as well as operating and maintaining
STWs for provision of subsurface drainage relief in waterlogged SGW areas.
This policy was reiterated in the Sixth Five Year Plan (FY84-FY88), and in
1986, a SCARP Transition Pilot Project (STPP) (Cr. 1693-PAK)lI was initiated
with the Bank's assistance to phase out and reple   some 213 STWs with about
1,500 small capacity PTWs in the FGW areas of SCARP-I area in Punjab. The
current Credit closing date for this project is December 31, 1991.
1.05      Experience under the STPP.  Farmers' response to a package of
incentives, provided under the STPP to facilitate replacement of STWs by small
capacity PTWs, has exceeded initial expectations. The pilot project has
largely achieved its objectives of privatizing groundwater pumpage while
maintaining the water table at the desired levels. Available information
indicates that aggregate discharges from PTWs are approximating the
corresponding pumpage from the STWs and resulting in higher cropping
intensities and a shift toward higher value crops. Field observations in
areas installed with PTWs show an active water market, facilitating
availability of groundwater to non-tubewell owners.
1.06      Encouraged by the success of the pilot project, the Government
agreed, under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2986-PAK) and the
1/   This project was identified in the Bank's subsector report entitled
"Pakistan's Public and Private Tubewell Performance: Issues and Options,"
South Asia Irrigation I Division, June 1983.



-3-
Second IrrigaLion Systems Rehabilitation (ISR-II) Project (Cr. 1888-PAK) on a
program, to replace all STWs in FGW aroas by 1997 (except those currently
being installed under two ongoing projects financed by another donor). The
proposed Second SCARP Transition Project (SSTP) was identified as a follow-up
to the pilot project in Punjab to replace the xemaining STWs with PTWs in the
FGW areas of SCARP-I through three modes of replacement (para 4.03) and to
initiate a pilot project in the SCARP North Rohri area in Sindh. Detailed
feasibility studies were financed utilizing project preparation funds provided
under the ISR-II project, which served as the basis for IDA appraisal carried
out in June 1990. In most areas, STWs would be closed completely or their
bore holes would be sold at salvage value for use by PTWs. In a few areas
where existing STWs have x .t deteriorated too badly, Water User Associations
(WbAs) or groups of farmer4 may choose to purchase (at salvage value) and
operate such STWs for their remaining economic life.
1.07      Lessons learned from STPP.   The outcome of the pilot project has
conclusively demonstrated that the adopted "transition" mode of STWs is not
financially replicable on a national scale. The average unit cost of
replacement has been prohibitively high (about US$57,000 per STW), primarily
because of the high cost of electrical infrastructure required for providing
connections to PTWs. While the SSTP would follow the overall concept and
approach already tested under the pilot project, it seeks to develop a more
cost effective and replicable model for SCARP Transition by adopting a mode
without additional investment on electrical networks (the highest cost
component under the STPP). However, farmers would have free choice between
diesel and electric TWs, with the farmers paying the full cost of the electric
connection, utilizing capacity released by the closure of STWs. Most farmers
close to the power grid are expected to select electric pumps, but some may
still prefer diesel to avoid the problems of frequent load shedding,
especially during the peak irrigation season. The main difference in this
regard from the STPP is that farmers are paying the full cost of the
connection and that the project is not financing expansion of the power grid.
Since the life of the pump is limited (average life of 10 years), the
replacement can be easily shifted, if se required, from diesel to electric if
the grid has expanded meanwhile. It is estimated that about 25X of the PTWs
would be electric and the balance diesel operated. Without any infrastructure
investment, the proposed project is essentially designed as a management
oriented operation for replacement of STWs by PTWs (about US$17,000 per STW
replaced with PTWs).
1.08      Lessons learned from other relevant grojects.  As important issues
for the future of On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) program, the completion
report on OFWM I Project (Project Completion Report, No. 7309, June 24, 1988)
listed the need for a more systematic approach to watercourse renovation
covering entire command areas of minor or distributary canals; the need for
greater farmer involvement in the financing of OFWM works; and the need for
adequate watercourse repair and maintenance with active involvement of WUAs.
The lessons learned from OFWM I have guided the design of the watercourse
improvement component of the proposed project (paras 4.15 and 4.16).
Regarding agricultural credit, the Bank's Operations and Evaluation Department



-4-
(OED) findingsl1 are that rapid expansion of agricultural lending in an
orderly manner and without negative effects on portfolio quality is possible
through a well managed and affordable supervised credit system. Prerequisites
are staff training and motivation, mobility of field staff, and the transfer
of credit packages to the farmer with adequate technology and an investment-
related extension service.  These findings have been incorporated in the
proposed project design.
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. A4ricult3aIr
2.01      Despite its declining share in the overall economy, agriculture Ls
still the mainstay of Pakistan's economy, accounting for 24% of GDP, engaging
about 52X of the labor force, and generating 552 of export earnings. In 1987-
88 the total cultivated area was estimated at about 21 M ha with an overall
cropping intensity of 101%. Of the total cropped area, 11.6 M ha (55%) was
under food grains. Cotton and sugarcane, the major cash crops, covered 2.6 M
ha (12.4%) and 0.8 M ha (4%) respectively. Fodder, horticultural crops and
minor crops accounted for the remaining 6 M ha (28.6%).
2.02      During the past decade, the agricultural sector has undergone a
technological and policy transformation. By introducing technological
changes, offering adequate production incentives and increasing the
availability of water, fertilizer, and credit, Pakistan has attained near
self-sufficiency in wheat and generated an exportable surplus in rice and
cotton since the late 1980's. Today, Pakistan is a leading exporter of raw
cotton in the world and dominates the export market for high quality rice,
particularly Basmati rice.
2.03      Gains in agricultural production in Pakistan have mainly been the
result of expansion of cultivable area and, more recently, during the Sixth
Five Year Plan, the introduction of new technology. Because the availability
of cultivable area is now limited, future increases in agricultural output
must be derived from increases in productivity. However, continuing
constraints such as poor management and inefficient use of water resources,
inefficient agricultural support services and lack of small farmers' access to
credit and agricultural inputs still affect productivity, and the rate of
growth in agricultural output has been declining in recent years. The removal
of these constraints is particularly critical to small farmers (owning less
than 5 ha) who constitute 74% of the farming population. More important, the
future development potential of the agricultur&l sector would depend on the
joint efforts of the public and the private sectors. The initiatives of the
private sector in water resource development, including development of PTWs,
distribution of inputs, and marketing of agricultural products are encouraging
signs for the future development of the sector. The recent agreement among
the Provinces on the allocation of the Indus river waters is also a major
development which should significantly assist in the sector's development.
1/   OED's Project Performance Audit Report on the Pakistan Fifth Agricultural
Development Bank Project (Credit 1380-PAK/Loan 2305-PAK), October 1990.



B. Water Resource DevelopDent and hanaggmeit
2.04      A.bout 90% of Pakistan's agricultural production comes from 16.2 M ha
of land, most of which receives irrigation water from the Indus irrigation
system. The Indus irrigation system comprises the Indus river and its major
tributaries, three major storage reservoirs, 19 barrages/headworks, 12 link
canals, 43 canal commands and some 95,000 chaks/dehs. It is the largest
contiguous irrigation system in the world. Surface water accounts for 61X of
the irrigation water utilized, while groundwater contributes the remaining
39%. The existing PTWs account for 75% of the groundwater pumpage for
irrigation use while the balance co.wes from large capacity 11,000 STWs.
C. Groundwater Potential and Development
2.05      The Indus basin is underlain with a vast aquifer of varying quality
groundwater covering an area of about 6 M ha. The alluvial complex of sand
sediment with minor silt and clay layers is reported to be in excess of 450
meters thick in Punjab and upper Sindh, decreasing to around 60 meters east of
Hyderabad (in Sindh) where it is layered with silty and heavy deltaic
sediment. The hydrogeological characteristics of the aquifer are generally
favorable for the development of TWs for irrigation supplias. The remaining
groundwater potential in FGW areas is estimated to be about 14,000 M m 
annually. The total dissolved solids in the groundwater in the FGW areas are
less than 1,000 parts per million which is suitable for irrigation.
2.06      Large scale groundwater abstraction for irrigation in the Indus
Plain started in the early 1960s with the SCARP projects. A total of 36 SCARP
projects have since been developed in Pakistan, comprising some 13,000 STWs
(in SGW and FGW areas) yielding 10,500 M m3 annually. As locally manufactured
Grilling rigs, pumps and diesel and electric motors became available, and
rural electrification network expanded, the number of PTWs grew rapidly. By
1990, there were over 250,000 PTWs installed for irrigation purposes, of which
about 80% are located in the Punjab Province.  The PTWs yield 45,000 M ss of
irrigation water annually. The current PTW distribution by farm size is as
follows: large farms (more than 10 ha) - 47%, medium farms (5-10 ha) - 26%,
small farms (less than 5 ha) - 27%.
D. Government Policy and Bank Group Strategv
2.07      Government policies and programs in the agricultural sector over the
past decade have been guided by the National Agricultural Policy (NAP)
announced in 1980. The NAP emphasized: (a) rationalization of agricultural
input and output prices with a view to aligning them to international price
trends; (b) provision of incentives and gradual transfer to the private sector
the responsibility for distribution and marketing of key inputs, processing of
grain, and development of fresh groundwater; and (c) reorientation of
investment priorities toward optimizing the use of existing irrigation
facilities by rehabilitating irrigation infrastructure, renovating
watercourses, and improving research and extension services. During the Sixth
Five Year Plan, agriculture grew at 3.8% annually against a plan target of
4.9% per year. Under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (FY89-FY93), a growth rate of
4.71 is envisaged in agriculture. The Government continues to accord high



- 6 -
priority to increasing productivity, and diversifying into higher value crops
by improving agricultural research and extension, increasing oil seed
production, and introducing an improved support price system. Land
reclamation, irrigation systems rehabilitation, and on-farm water management
constitute a major part of the water sector's investment program during the
Plan period. The private sector is expected to bear 17% of the total
investment envisaged for the agriculture sector.
2.08      The Bank has helped the Government to accelerate agricultural
development by encouraging it to: (a) formulate a balanced investment strategy
that would ensure select-ion of priority programs and allocation of adequate
resources to increase agricultural productivity; (b) improve its formulation
and implementation of agricultural pricing policies; and (c) mobilize
additional resources to help finance high-priority investment programs/
projects. The Government's sector strategy and programs have grown out of a
strengthened technical and policy dialogue with the Bank. The Bank is
supporting GOP's improved investment strategy, which is oriented toward low
cost quick yielding investments and selected infrastructure development by
financing a number of projects in water management, irrigation system
rehabilitation, salinity control and reclamation (e.g. Left Bank Outfall
Drain, SCARP Transition), research and extension, and credit.
2.09      A number of policy initiatives were supported by the Bank under the
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2986-PAK), including: (i) preparation
of a core investment program in the agriculture/water sector; (ii) reduction
in fertilizer subsidies to help mobilize resources for development; (iii)
preparation of short and medium term action plans for improving assessment and
collection of water charges to enhance recovery of O&M expenditures; (iv)
preparation of action plans for improving the operation of the Rice and Cotton
Export Corporations of Pakistan; and (v) preparation of feasibility studies
for the SSTP. The above objectives have largely been met. For example, the
Government has maintained adequate budgetary allocations ft.r the core
investment program despite overall budget constraints; the subsidy for
phosphatic and potash fertilizers has, to a large extent, been reduced
according to thle agreed targets; short and medium term plans have been
prepared and are being implemented for enhancing recovery of water charges;
action plans have been prepared for improving the operation of the rice and
cotton corporations; and feasibility studies have been prepared for the
proposed SSTP.
2.10      More recently, a Water Sector Investment Planning Study, financed by
UNDP and with the Bank as the executing agency, has been completed to support
the Government's effort to establish a long-term priority investment program
and to strengthen the provincial water sector planning institutions.
E. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.11      The Bank continues to be instrumental in the promotion of private
sector involvement and beneficiary participation in water sector investments
in Pakistan. The ongoing On-Farm Water Management (OFWM) program and the
Private Tubewell Development Project (Cr. 2004-PAK) are examples of the Bank's
support in this area. Under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and the
ISR-II Project, the Bank received assurances from GOP that it would cease



- 7 -
operation of the remaining STWs in FGW areas by 1997. Given the importance of
successful and timely implementation of the SCARP Transition Program and the
Bank's unIque experience in the STPP, its continued involvement in this
program would be necessary. Furthermore, it would be incumbent upon the Bank
to help the Government in evolving cost effective and innovative project
designs for future SCARP Transition projects. No other donor has similar
experience in Pakistan. Successful implementation of this program would be
instrumental in GOP's compliance with the above covenant, and would strengthen
the Bank's continuing dialogue with GOP on policy issues in the water sector.
III. THE PROJECT ARE
A. The Punjab Subiro4ect Area
3.01      The Punjab subproject area comprises the SCARP-1 area, excluding the
Khanqah Dogran unit which is covered under the STPP. It is located in the
center of Rechna Doab, Punjab Province, with river Chenab to its Northwest and
Ravi to its Southeast (see IBRD Map 22528). The subproject area is under the
administrative jurisdiction of Sheikhupura, Gujranwala, Faisalabad and Jhang
districts. It has a gross area of 0.45 H ha, and a canal command area (CCA)
of 0.42 M ha. Of the 1,870 STWs in the subproject area, 1,346 are in FGW
areas and these will be replaced with PTWs under the project. Another 333
STWs yield marginal quality water which is usable for irrigation, after mixing
with canal water, and these will continue pumping into the existing surface
irrigation system. The remaining 191 are drainage TWs yielding water
unsuitable for irrigation.
3.02      Climate and soils.  The area is semi-arid with hot summers and mild
winters. The mean daily average temperature ranges from a maximum of 46°C in
summer to a minimum of 5°C in winters. The annual rainfall varies from 440 mm
to 716 mm and 70% of it falls during the monsoon period (June to September).
The potential annual evaporation is about 1,800 mm (see Annex 1, Table 1).
The soils in the project area are of moderate'ly coarse to medium texture in
about 80% of the area, the remainder being fine textured. All soils in the
project area have favorable internal drainage characteristics, and are rich in
plant nutrients and generally suitable for irrigated agriculture.
3.03      Geologv.  The subproject area is underlain by a thick,
unconsolidated, alluvial deposit, except in a limited area with hard rock out
crops. The thickness of alluvium varies from 120-500 m, except near rock
outcrops. The alluvium consists predominantly of sand with subordinate,
discontinuous lenses of silt and clay. The sand has horizontal and vertical
continuity.
3.04      Surface water resources.  Surface irrigation water is supplied by
the Lower Chenab Canal system. The annual water supply is about 1,600 M m3 at
the canal outlets.
3.05      Groundvater potential.  Alluvial sand forms a unified, relatively
heterogeneous, highly permeable and unconfined aquifer in the project area.
The aquifer derives water from irrigation channels, field losses. The upper
30 m of the aquifer is suitable for low cost installation of PTWs with



-8-
satisfactory draw down and yield relationship (high specific yield). It is
estimated that the supplementary source of irrigation from the aquifer
provides on average about 40% of total usage. There are currently 1,631
operational STWs (out of a total 1,870 STWs in FGW and SGW areas) and an
estimated 8,990 small capacity/shallow PTWs in the subproject area discharging
2,600 M m3/year. The water table depth has gradually declined from the pre-
SCARP waterlogging conditions and stabilized approximately to a steady state
mode. In the western part of the project area (30% of the total area), the
water table is less than 3 m from the surface and the remainder between 3-6 m
(see IBRD Map 22530). Except for the western area (Shahkot, Sangla Hill,
Beranwala and Jaranwala reclamation areas) STW water is of usable to marginal
irrigation quality. Moderate quality and unsuitable water is intercepted in
333 STWs and 191 STWs, respectively, in the western section. Although the
overall salinity of the moderate quality water is low, its residual sodium
carbonate (RSC) is high which binds the soil structure and reduces water
infiltration to the root zone. The quality of the shallow PTW groundwater is
inadequately documented but is expected to be marginally better than the
deeper STWs water with minor spatia'l variations. Groundwater recharge from
surface canals, fields and rainfall is estimated to be 2,470 M m3/year which
approximates the groundwater abstraction of 2,600 M m3/year. The balance
between abstraction and groundwater recharge is reflected in the near steady-
state condition of the water table. To avoid lateral movement of saline and
marginal quality water into FGW areas, the current level of abstraction should
not be exceeded. Given the limited depth of the PTWs this potential problem
would be self-limiting under the proposed project design (see para 4.06).
3.06      Cropging patterns.  The project area falls in the wheat-rice
agroclimatic zone. Wheat covers 43%, rice 16%, Rabi (winter crop) fodders
15.5%, Kharif (summer crop) fodders 11.7%, maize 7.4%, and sugarcane 6.1% of
the culturable area. The average annual cropping intensity is about 120%,
with 69% in Rabi and 51% in Kharif. Crop yields in the project area are
consistent with the averages for Punjab, which are higher than Sindh, but
below those in other countries in the region.
3.07      Farm size.  The overall average farm size is about 4 ha.  Small
farms (less than 5 ha) represent about 76% of the total farms and occupy about
42% of the total farm area. The medium (5 to 10 ha) and large farms (above 10
ha), which constitute 17% and 7% of the total farms occupy 28% and 30% of the
total farm area, respectively.
3.08      Electric Rower suDplv.  The power transmission and distribution
lines in the subproject area were designed as a dedicated system to serve the
STWs only. Distribution lines of 11 KV were installed to connect STWs through
11/0.4 KV transformers. Over time, however, the distribution system has been
extended to serve other consumers. Since the transmission lines have not been
upgraded to meet the additional load requirement, the system is now generally
overextended and overloaded with minimal spare capacity for further electric
loads.
B. The Sindh Subvroject Area
3.09      The subproject area consists of the Moro and Sakrand units of the
SCARP North Rohri (SNR) project, located on the left bank of the River Indus



-9-
(see IBRD Map 22528). Its northern boundary starts about 32 km South of
Sukkur and the area stretches Southward in a strip 152 km long up to the town
of Sakrand.   The subproject area falls within the administrative jurisdiction
of the districts of Nawab Shah and Nausharo Feroze. The gross area is 132,000
ha of which 126,000 ha are commanded by the Rohri Canal. Of the 454 STWs in
the subproject area, 380 supply usable to marginal irrigation quality
groundwater while the remaining 74 discharge saline water into the surface
irrigation system.
3.10      Climate and soils.  The subproject area is semi-arid with large
diurnal and seasonal temperature fluctuations. The mean monthly minimum and
maximum temperatures are 28°c to 400c in summers and 10°c to 25°c in winters.
The average annual precipitation ranges from 130 mm to 250 mm, 80X of which
falls during summer. The potential annual evaporation exceeds 2,000 mm (see
Annex 1, Table 2). The soils are composed of mixed alluvium, and are
calcareous in nature. The soils are medium to coarse textured and are massive
and structureless. The majority of the soils in the subproject have good
production potential.
3.11      Geolog .  The alluvial plain is underlain by a thick,
unconsolidated, alluvial sand deposit interspersed with silty and clayey
deltaic sediment. The thickness of the alluvium is unknown but probably
exceeds 500 m. The lithological sequence is as follows: typically clay (0-6
m); underlain by an upper, fine to course grained sand layer up to 90-110 m;
discontinuous deltaic clay lenses (110-120 m); and then a series of sand and
clay layers up to bedrock.
3.12      Surface water resources.  The Rohri Canal supplies irrigation water
to the subproject area through its Dad and Thul Branches. The annual total
canal water supply to the project area is about 1200 M e3 per annum.
3.13      Groundwater potential.  The subproject area has a unified and highly
permeable aquifer system. Due to the presence of an overlying clay layer of
variable thickness the aquifer exists under both confined and unconfined
conditions. In the Moro unit, the groundwater level has been rising at the
rate of about 2.5 cm per year during the last 21 years. On the other hand, in
the Sakrand unit, there has been an average decline of about 8cm per year.
Under these conditions, the subproject area has approached near steady state
equilibrium conditions and aquifer recharge and discharge are closely
balanced. The water table is below 1.5 m in 98X of the subproject area (see
IBRD Map 22529). Unlike the Punjab area there is no significant residual
sodium carbonate concenti 'ion. Groundwater salinity is the main determinant
of water suitability for    igation.  Most of the STWs (190 in Moro and 190 in
Sakrand units) yield usable to marginal quality groundwater. The remaining 74
STWs pump saline groundwater into the surface irrigation canals, for use after
dilution. SGW total dissolved solids of 20,000 parts per million is known to
occur immediately to the East of the project area in the Thar Desert and in
the deeper sand aquifers beneath the subproject area. The extent of saline
groundwater within and outside the project area is, however, poorly
documented. To avoid lateral and/or upward movement of saline groundwater,
Government policy limits the abstractiow  cro  the deep STWs in fresh
groundwater areas so as not to exceed the cuicent levels.



- 10 -
3.14      Cropping patterns.  The project area falls in the cotton-wheat
agroclimatic zone. Currently, wheat occupies 411, cotton 23X, sugar cane 8
and rice 51 of the CCA. The average cropping intensity is 106X, with 48X in
Kharif and 58X in Rabi.
3.15      Farm size.  The subproject area has predominantly large size farms.
The average farm size is about 20 ha. Small farms (below 5 ha) constitute
37X, medium farms (5 to 10 ha) 281, and large farms (above 10 ha) 35X of the
number of farms. However, small farms cover 8.61, medium farms 10.8X, and
large farms 82.41 of the total subproject area.
3.16      Electric power supply.  The project area is served by four grid
stations namely, Sakrand, Kazi Ahmad, Daulatpur, and Moro through 132 KV and
66 KV lines. Eleven KV distribution lines supply power to the industrial,
domestic, and agricultural consumers throughout the subproject area.
Currently, the grid stations as well as the main feeder lines in the
subproject area have ample spare capacity for providing connections to PTWs if
required by farmers.
IV. foLYROJEcT
A. Project Obiectives
4.01      The main objectives of the project are to:
(a) increase agricultural production through improved and timely
availability of supplementary irrigation-Y on a financially
sustainable basis;
(b) maintain an appropriate groundwater table through PTWs, replacing
the current STWs which are expensive to operate and are poorly
maintained;
(c) test the viability of SCARP Transition in Sindh; and
(d) prepare a follow-up project for larger scale replacement of STWs,
based upon experience under this project.
To help meet the above objectives a coordinated package of incentives is
envisaged under the project, including a PTW installation incentive, provision
of credit, watercourse improvement for promoting installation of jointly owned
PTW by small farmers, and technical assistance for implementation supervision,
hydrogeological studies, preparation of future SCARP transition projects, and
monitoring and evaluation.
1/   PTWs would pump supplementary irrigation water from fresh groundwater
areas for conjunctive use with canal water. The timing and quantity of
supplementary irrigation would be entirely within the control of those
operating PTWs.



- 11 -
B. Project Descrigtion
4.02      The proposed six-year project (FY92-97) would implement the
government policy of replacement of STWs with PTWs in FGW areas. It comprises
two subprojects, one in Punjab and one in Sindh. The Punjab subproject would
replace about 1,346 STWs with PTWs in the FGW areas of the remaining part of
the SCARP-I area, not covered under the STPP. The Sindh subproject would be a
pilot effort to test the viability of SCARP transition in the somewhat
different socio-economic conditions of Sindh. It would replace about 380 STWs
with PTWs in the FGW areas of the Moro and Sakrand units of SCARP North Rohri
(SNR) Project. The project components are described below.
Replacement of STWs
4.03      Three "modes of transition" are envisaged for the replacement of all
STWs in FGW areas under the project: (i) termination and replacement mode
(TRM) -- this would be the main mode of transition and would involve closure
of STWs and their replacement by small capacity new PTWs of equivalent total
capacity, taking into account observed utilization factors for STWs and PTWs;
(ii) conversion/transfer mode (CTM) -- under this mode, farmers would
purchase, at salvage value, bore holes (with pumps and turbines removed)3] of
STWs and utilize them for installing PTWs; and (iii) direct transfer mode
(DTM) -- in a few cases, farmer groups (WUAs or subgroups) or individual
farmers would purchase, at salvage value, STWs that are in good condition for
continued operation. The number of STWs to be "transitioned" under each mode
will be determined after the TW-to-TW survey. A total of 1726 STWs will be
replaced under TRM and CTM modes with about 14,800 PTWs under the project.
4.04      In the Punjab suboroject. a total of 1,346 STWs, which pump usable
groundwater, would be replaced with about 13,000 diesel and electric PTWs.
About, 1,010 STWs would be closed and replaced under the TRM. Under the CTM,
bore holes of 336 STWs would be transferred to interested farmers, on whose
land the STWs are located, against a fixed salvage cost of Rs 2,000 per bore
hole.
4.05      In the Sindh subgroiect, a total of 380 STWs, which pump usable
groundwater would be replaced with about 1,800 diesel and electric PTWs.
About 280 STWs would be replaced under the TRM. Under the CTM, bore holes of
100 STWs would be transferred to interested farmers against a fixed salvage
cost of Rs 2,000 per bore hole.
4.06      In both subprojects, during the TW to TW survey, WUAs or farmer
subgroup& would be encouraged to take over complete STWs that are in good
working condition under the direct transfer mode. Also, in both subprojects,
STWs in SGW areas (524 in Punjab and 74 in Sindh) would continue to be
operated by the Provincial Irrigation Departments (PIDs), as farmers would not
be interested in taking them over or in installing replacement PTWs in SGW
areas. The projected distribution of diesel and electric TWs in the two
subprojects is given in Table 4.1.
1/   In most cases farmers would not wish to take over STW operation because
of poor condition of the pumps and motors and the high cost of their
operation.



- 12 -
Table 4.1: Projected Number of Private Tubewells
Capacity
I cfs       0.5 cfs             Total
-------- (no. of tubewells) --------
Type of Drive
PunJab
Diesel             2,500         7,500            10,000
Electric           1.600         1.400            _3000
Subtotal           4,100         8,900            13,000
Sindh
Diesel               300           770              1,070
Electric             400           330                730
Subtotal             700         1,100              1,800
Total           4,800        10,000            14,800
The above numbers of PTWs are based on estimates of groundwater balance,
taking into account differences in capacity utilization and irrigation
efficiencies of PTWs and STWs. The proposed proportion of small capacity PTWs
has been kept high to provide small farmers an equitable share. The mix of
diesel and electric PTWs is based on a preliminary survey of farmers in the
project area and the proximity of farms to electrical networks; the precise
numbers would be determined by farmers' choice during implementation. It is
expected that ground water abstraction by the PTWs would not deviate
substantially from the corresponding pumpage of the STWs prior to the
transition. This would be ensured by monitoring of groundwater levels (para
4.21). A reduction in groundwater abstraction is unlikely because farmers
would tend to maintain their cropping intensities at least at the pre-
transition levels, which would require abstraction of an equivalent amount of
water as currently pumped by the STWs. On the other hand over abstraction, if
it occurs, would be self limiting. Because groundwater levels would be
gradually lowered the volume of water pumped by PTWs would decrease until the
balance between discharge and recharge of the aquifer is established.Y In
any case, the project provides for close monitoring of groundwater levels to
provide timely warning for taking corrective measures should any adverse
trends be observed (para 4.21).
4.07     Electrical connections to PTWs would be provided without subsidy to
farmers on a first-come first basis, without upgrading the existing network
under the project. Connections would be provided to PTWs located close to the
STWs and 11 KV lines utilizing the capacity released by the closure of STWs.
GOP. GOPuniab and GOSindh have given assurances that after the closure of the
STWs: (a) the capacity to be released by closing a STW would be reserved for
1/ PTWs would be based on centrifugal type pumps which can pump to a maximum
depth of about 6 meters.



- 13 -
farmers in that chak/deh; and (b) connections, including 11 KV T-offs, to such
PTWs would be provided without delay.
Project Com onents
4.08     Installation of Private Tubewells (Base Cost USS26,13 N). Following
the closure of the STWs, some 14,800 new PTWs would need to be installed in
the two subproject areas to replace the pumpage of the STWs during the project
implementation period. Farmers would purchase TWsV through normal commercial
channels. Although there has been a natural growth of PTWs in Pakistan in the
past, the growth rate envisaged under the project is unprecedented. For
example, over 2,000 PTWs would need to be installed each year in the Punjab
subproject area against the historical growth rate of about 500 PTWs per year.
The procedure used would be similar to that of the STPP. Farmers would be
informed at least 9-12 months prior to an irrigation season that specific
number of STWs in a particular irrigation compartment would be closed, so that
farmers would have sufficient time to make arrangements for installing TWs for
supplemental irrigation, although canal supplies would still be available.
Unless PTWs are in place at the time Government stops operating STWs, there is
a danger of economic loss and ecological damage due to loss of supplemental
irrigation water and rising water table levels causing waterlogging and
salinity. To avert the possibility, of slow or delayed installation of PTWs,
a crash program for the replacement of STWs has been envisaged. The following
incentives would be provided to ensure timely installation of PTWs, including:
(a) a cash incentive from the Provincial Governments of Rs 16,000 (US$750
equivalent) per TW toward the cost of each new electric or diesel PTW in line
with the existing incentive provided in Punjab for diesel operated PTWs; (b)
provision of credit from the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP)
for PTW installation cost including electric connection cost; and (c) timely
provision of electric connections to new PTWs for those who wish to install
electric TWs. In addition, the existing provision of remission of drainage
chargesV would also apply. The proposed cash incentive of Rs 16,00C
represents 25X to 64X of the average installed cost of a 28 liters per second
(one cusec) capacity electric and diesel PTW, respectively.
4.09     The financial incentive is justified since; (i) the PTW operations
have substantial externalities, lowering the water table and preventing
waterlogging and salinity for farms neighboring the PTW user; (ii) replacement
of STWs by PTWs would be accelerated to avoid waterlogging and salinity and
loss of supplementary irrigation when STWs are shut down; and (iii) takeover
of responsibilities from Government for maintaining the water table would
produce substantial budgetary savings from elimination of requirements for O&M
and replacement of STWs (Annex 2). The total amount of incentive would be
1/ In Punjab, the average installed cost of electric and diesel PTW is
US$2,500 and US$1,200 equivalent respectively. In Sindh, the average
installed cost is US$3,000 and US$1,800 respectively. The cost of
electric connection is included in the price of electric PTWs.
2/ These charges, called "double water charges" in Punjab and "drainage
cess" in Sindh are for O&  of STWs for maintaining the water table at
safe levels.



- 14 -
equivalent to about one and a half year's Government O&M cost of STWs to be
replaced. Under the STPP, substantial incentive measures, equivalent to
US$1,400 per PTW were adopted. Given the current binding fiscal constraints,
it is recommended to maintain a reduced financial incentive, which would be
46X lower than the amount provided under STPP. The total financial incentive
would amount to about US$11.66M (including physical contingencies) over a six-
year project implementation period.
4.10     Demand for PTWs would be determined through tubewell to tubewell (TW
to TW) surveys of the STWs. The total amount of cash incentive would,
however, be limited to the number of PTWs appropriate for each chak/deh on the
basis of ground water balance. An appropriate procedure satisfactory to IDA
would be developed for the disbursement of incentives against actual
installation of PTWs. The procedure would r.eed to be simple, equitable, and
designed to ensure that cash incentive funds are indeed used for PTWs
installation.
4.11     Criteria for allocation of cash incentives.  In those chaks/dehs,
where demand for PTWs exceeds technically appropriate number, priority would
be given to small farmers. Since some of the very small farmers would be
unable to afford independent PTWs despite the cash incentive, the project
would encourage installation of jointly owned PTWs to help such farmers. To
meet these objectives, the following criteria would be applied for allocation
of cash incentives:
(a) first priority would be given to WUAs applying for installing PTWs
jointly;
(b) second priority would be given to groups of small farmers applying
for installing PTWs jointly (between competing groups in this
category of applicants, preference would be given to groups with the
largest number of farmers);
(c) cash incentives not utilized by joint applicants in any chak/deh
would be available to individual farmers, with priority given to
farmers with the smallest land holdings; and
(d) if the number of joint applicants and/or individual farmers meeting
the above criteria in any chakL/de exceeds allocated funds, cash
incentives would be made available on a "first come first served"
basis.
Assurances were obtained from GOPunjab and GOSindh that PTW incentives would
be offered to farmers with effect from July 1. 1991 and thereafter annually
review the operation of the incentive package. to assess its effectiveness and
availabilily of funds. consult with IDA on its findings and obtain IDA's
concurrence on any recommendation.
4.12     Credit for Private Tubevells.  The success of the project relies,
inter alia, on the timely availability of credit for PTW purchase and
installation. Experience under the STPP has shown that ADBP processed only a
fraction of the loans that were expected for the project. Some farmers in
that area have complained of having to borrow from non-institutional sources



- 15 -
of credit. Lack of information to farmers on ADBP lending facilities, the
bureaucratic process of obtaining Agricultural Passbooks (APBs), and the lack
of a "project approach" toward PTW lending, all contributed to the low use of
credit. In order to provide for the specialized credit services required to
support a crash program for PTW installation, assurances were obtained from
ADBP that it would: (i) post a team of Functional Mobile Credit Officers
(FMCOs) in each of the two subgroject areas who would be esoecially trained in
rW lending oRerations and trained in TW technology at the Niazbeg training
institute or other approRriate training centers and who would receive on-the-
job traininz from the project consultants (para -.-65: and (ii) facilitate
availability of blank APBs to farmers.
4.13     The credit line of US$8.6 million equivalent would adopt the same
on-lending terms and conditions agreed under the Agricultural Credit Project
(Ln. 3226-PAK). The credit to individual farmers could cover 75% to 90%
(depending on farm size) of the total cash investment cost of installing a PTW
(including the cost of electric connection) not covered by the cash incentive.
In line with current practice, loans would have a two year grace period and
six years repayment period. The rate of return charged by ADBP (under the
Islamic banking system), currently 12.5%, would be adjusted from time to time
as needed to meet the criteria specified in para 4.30. Since the closing date
of the Agricultural Credit Project is December 31, 1995 and funds for TW
credit are likely to be fully disbursed before that date, inclusion of credit
for PTWs in this project would assure that funds are available after that date
for PTW credit requirements through the full project period. PTW credit under
this proposed operation would be under a specific program designed to peumit
intensive operations to ensure installation of PTWs before the STWs are closed
down. To avoid double financing, PTW loans financed under the SSTP project
would be excluded from financing under the Agricultural Credit Project. ADBP
would provide loans to farmers in the project area for installation of diesel
and electric PTWs including cost of electric connections from the distribution
transformers or from 11 KV lines. It is estimated that about 60% of the
farmers (or WUA/subgroups) would opt for institittional credit provided under
the project to finance part of PTW cost.
4.14     According to ADBP requirements for profitable performance of a TW,
the development area recommended for considering loans for different TW
capacities is 1.2-10 ha for 7 liters per second (0.25 cusec), 10-20 ha for 14
liters per second (0.5 cusec), and 20-40 ha for 28.3 liters per second (1
cusec). Even though these requirements may appear as a constraint for small
farmers (less than 1.2 ha), it has been observed in the past that ADBP
provides loans to these farmers on the assumptions that the:' sell water to
make their investment viable.  Farmers with land holding of 1.2 ha and above
are eligible to borrow for PTWs. ADBP requires equity contributions from
farmers in accordance with the size of their holdings as follows: 10% for
farmers with holdings of 5 ha or less, 15% for holdings of 5-10 ha, and 25%
for holdings of more than 20 ha. Loans may be secured first against land,
building or any other tangible security. In case of shortfall in security the
TW installed out of the loan may also be hypothecated by a chattel mortgage to
the extent of 50% of its appraised value. The criteria and terms described
above are satisfactory. In order to ensure that pressures to support project
requirements for PTW finance do not lead to a weakening of ADBP's appraisal
standards and that acceptable banking approaches are maintained, joint



- 16 -
ADBP/IDA reviews of appraisal and lending procedures and standards applied for
PTW loans would be carried out annually.
Watercourse Iwmrovement in Puniab (Base Cost USS8.92 M)
4.15     Watercourses generally command between 75 and 200 ha and serve 25 to
50 farms. The communal watercourse represents about 20X of the watercourse
length from the intake with the remaining 80X being farmer branches and field
ditches. To assist small farmers who cannot afford their own individual PTWs
after the closure of the STWs, the project provides for the renovation of some
500 watercourses in FGW areas of the Punjab subproject. This will provide an
incentive for farmers to cooperate for joint PTW ownership and also will
provide a compensating source of water for some small farmers who would
otherwise be worse off with the closure of STWs. The communal watercourse,
which conveys a large portion of the irrigation water from a minor (canal),
would be realigned and rebuilt with clean compacted soil and lined to improve
performance and reduce seepage. Jointly owned PTWs could pump groundwater
into these watercourses for distribution among PTW owners.   Assurance was
obtained from GOPunjab that priority for watercourse renovation would be given
to those watercQurses where WUAs/farmer groups assume responsibility for
pumping water from existing STWs or cooperate to install jointly owned PTWs.
WUAs and farmer groups would have the option of: (a) purchasing the STW at a
nominal cost, or (b) utilizing only STW bore holes for installing PTWs.
Watercourses of such WUAs or farmer groups would also be eligible for a higher
percentage of lining where farmers have rehabilitated farm branches and
ditches and/or where less costly technology has been selected by WUAs. Except
for these requirements specifically designed for distribution of PTW water for
small farmers, this project component would be carried out in full conformity
with all the specifications and criteria for civil works and stipulations for
recovery of cost of materials made under the proposed Third On-Farm Water
Management (OFWM-III) Project. Those not benefitting from watercourse
improvement will still benefit from canal system rehabilitation (para 4.27).
4.16     In addition to providing the benefits of water savings and improved
water management, the watercourse improvement component would complement the
project objectives in three ways: (i) it would encourage small farmers to
cooperate and install jointly owned PTWs, thus providing them access to
groundwater; (ii) even in those watercourqes where farmers do not install
jointly owned PTWs, water savings result'i-g from lining of watercourses would,
at least partly, mitigate the water shortage faced by small farmers who are
unable to install own PTWs or to buy water on reasonable terms following the
closure of the STWs; and (iii) lined watercourses would facilitate de"reloDment
of a water market by facilitating inter-farm distribution of PTW water, and
thereby improve small farmers' access to groundwater. Where required, off
channel village buffalo baths would be provided close to villages. Since TW
water would be reasonably clean, laundry places would be provided close to
villages as required.
4.17     This project component would not duplicate the watercourse
improvements to be financed through the Fourth Drainage Project (Cr. 1375-
PAK), and those under the recently appraised OFWM-III project; both of those
projects assign priority to SGW areas, whereas under this project, the
watercourse improvement component would be implemented exclusively in FGW



- 17 -
areas to encourage installation and utilization of jointly owned PTWs by small
farmers.
4.18     In the Sindh subproject, a watercourse improvement component would
not be funded under the project because the existing land tenure and socio-
economic structure there would make it difficult to target the intended
benefits of this component at small farmers. However, this pilot scale
subproject will be monitored closely during early stages of project
implementation to develop feasible approaches for assisting small farmers in
the future.
Proiect Implementation Assistance Consultants (Base Cost USS1.43 M)
4.19     To facilitate project implementation and minimize need for posting
incremental staff the project would procure consultants' services for
providing project implementation assistance (PIA). These consultants would
assist the implementing agencies in: carrying out TW to TW surveys of the STWs
to encourage farmers to install PTWs; preparing overall annual work plans for
the project; advising farmers on selection of cost effective and efficient
technology and equipment for pump sets (see para 4.24), and TW water
management in conjunction with canal supplies; assisting farmers in securing
electric connections for TWs, Agricultural Passbooks from the district
administration offices, and TW loans from ADBP; supervising construction and
maintaining quality control of the watercourse improvement civil works;
monitoring of key physical and financial key indicators; and assisting the
project management cells (PMCs) (para 5.02) in disbursing cash incentives for
PTW installation, maintaining project accounts, preparing withdrawal
applications and preparing progress reports and the project completion report.
Terms of reference for the PIA consultants are given in Annex 3. Appointment
of PIA consultants would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Hvdrogeological Studies (Base Cost USS1.12 M)
4.20     Currently, many STWs in the SGW areas in the two subproject areas
are either closed down or pumping at low capacities. Furthermore, many of
these STWs, which are pumping water unfit for irrigation, do not have
appropriate outfalls. Since operation and maintenance of STWs in SGW areas
would continue to remain the responsibility of the PIDs, it would be incumbent
upon them to ensure optimum performance of such STWs, improved disposal of
saline effluent, prevent waterlogging and salinization of soils, and intrusion
of SGW into the adjoining FGW areas and/or other environmental damage. The
reduction of O&M expenditures in FGW areas achieved through SCARP "transition"
should make it easier for the Provincial Governments to budget adequate funds
for O&K of the STWs in SGW areas. Assurances were obtained from GOPunjab and
GOSindh that adeguate budget allocations would be made for the oDeration and
maintenance of STWs in SGU areas according to the targets agreed under the
covenants of the ISR-II Project (Cr. 1888-PAK).  Even in FGW areas, there is a
possibility of build up of salts in the soil due to the recirculation of
groundwater, which may require leaching and disposal by surface drains.
4.21     In view of the above, hydrogeological studies would be carried out
by consultants in the two subproject areas to determine the most cost
effective way of: (i) preventing intrusion of SGW into FGw areas; (ii)



- 18 -
preventing development of waterlogging conditions in the SGWs areas; (-Li)
safely disposing of saline effluent based on an environmental assessment; and
(iv) prevention of salts in the soil in FGW areas. As part of these Ptudies
the consultants would develop and calibrate appropriate groundwater models to
Lelp monitor the groundwater regime and quality in the project area and
propose remedial measures to halt any possible adverse trends. The
consultants would also collect data on shallow water chemistry in all areas
proposed for PTWs and submit these data to the PIA consultants, at least three
months before PTWs are installed in any particular irrigation compartment.
The consultants would also collect similar data in areas where the STWs pump
saline or marginal water to explore the viability of replacing marginal STWs
with PTWs. The consultants will closely liaise with WAPDA's SCARP Monitoring
Organization and International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) during
the above studies. In order to reduce overhead costs and ensure better
coordination, the hydrogeological studies would also be entrusted to the same
consulting firm selected for supplying the PIA team. The firm would, however,
be expected to employ international specialist in designated fields. Terms of
reference for the hydrogeological studies are given in Annex 4. Assurances
were obtained from GOP. GOPunjab and GOSindh that hydrogeological consultants
would be recruited and a2orooriate action would be taken on the findings of
the above studies. Appointment of hydrogeological consultants would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
Future SCARP Transition Studies (Base Cost USSO.33 U!.
4.22     Under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and the Second
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1888-PAK), the Government has
agreed to replace all STWs in FGW areas by 1997 with PTWs, (except those
currently being installed under two ongoing projects financed by other
donors). In order to meet this schedule, funds would be provided under the
project to initiate surveys of the remaining SCARPs and prepare feasibility
studies for future SCARP Transition projects in Punjab and Sindh.
Reconnaissance surveys were carried out during the preparation of this project
to prioritize the remaining SCARPs for transition. These surveys would be
reviewed and detailed project preparation started. In view of the large
number of STWs that remain to be "transitioned' in the future, consideration
would be given to developing a program or sector approach for future
transition projects. Assurances were obtained from GOQunJab and GOSindh that
consultants would be recruited to carry out future SCARP Transition studies.
Project Impact Evaluation (Base Cost US80.33 M}
4.23     Consultants or an independent organization would be engaged
according to IDA guidelines to carry out project impact evaluation studies.
Limited input from expatriate specialists would also be provided. The
evaluation studies would focus on the following main areas: impact on
agricultural production; effect of replacement of STWs with PTWs on
groundwater table; impact on small farmers; reduction in budgetary burden of
O&M expenditures; appropriateness of the incentives package provided under the
project; and lessons learned for improved design of fucure SCARP Transition
projects. In order to initiate baseline surveys in the two project areas
prior to the closure of the STWs, consultants would be recruited. Terms of
reference for the impact evaluation studies are given in Annex 5. Agssmr&ngs



- 19 -
were obtained from GOPunjab and GOSindh that consultants would be reenlted
prior to Credit effectiveness to carry out project impact evaluation s=tu-J&
Baseline surveys will be completed within one year of appointment of
consultants.
Training (Base Cost USSo004 M)
4.24     To help farmers in selecting appropriate PTW technology and
equipment and to maximize the benefits of PTW water, the project would
establish demonstration centers and provide training as follows: (i)
agriculture officers (AOs) and field assistants of the Agriculture Extension
Department would be trained at the Niaz Beg Training Institute of the
Directorate General of OFWM, in PTW water management and soil and water
management under conditions involving marginal quality groundwater, and
appropriate 'extension packages" would be developed; (ii) under the guidance
of the PIA consultants, the agriculture extension and OFWM staff would jointly
establish 10 demonstration plots of about 10 ha each to train farmers in cost
effective techniques for inter-farm distribution and optimum utilization of
PTWs water; and (iii) FMCOs of ADBP as described in para 5.06. Inputs for the
demonstration centers would be provided through the PMCs. AssurAnces were
obtained from GOPunjab. GOSindh and ADBP that they would iointly prepare and
submit a comprehensive training program for the project through the PMC. for
IDA's review bX December 31. 1991.
Equipment and Velhicles (Base Cost US$J;4.M
4.25     To facilitate the proposed studies and the TW to TW surveys,
equipment for soil and water testing, gioundwater monitoring, computers, air
conditioners, and other office equipwat would be provided under the project.
Vehicles would also be provided to pxoact staff and consultants responsible
for TW to TW surveys of the STWs and otMer studies.
Proiect Nagaemen,  (Base Gost USSO.80 MA
4.26     In Punjab, the project would p;^evide incremental salaries,
allowances and adminlistrative and operatiLg expenses for the Project
Management Cell (PMC). However, in Sindt, since the existing staffing in the
office of the Project Director, SCARP Not'h Rohri is adequate, the project
would only provide incremental operating .zpenses for the PMC (excluding
salaries).
4.27     Rehabilitation gf irrigation/draiteize saXtems (Not finanged under
the pro1ecgt. In some FGW areas of the project, irrigation water supplied by
STWs to supplement canal water is relatively high compared to total irrigation
utilized. Closure of STWs in these areas could adversely affect some farmers
unless canal supplies are improved. For those sbaks/dehs which have been
depending on STWs as main source of irrigation, measures should be taken to
ensure more reliable and efficient canal supplies. In SGW areas, possible
infiltration of drainage effluent pumped by STUs into drains may infiltrate
into the aquifer. This potential infiltration should be minimized to prevent
rise in saline groundwater levels which may result in salinity and
waterlogging. Assurances were obtained from GOPunlab and GOSindh that PIDs
would car"y out reguired rehabilitation and remodelling works in the two



20 -
subgroject areas under the ongoing ISR-II Project (Cr. 1888-PAK).  Priority
would be iven to: (i) improving surface water deliveries in those chaks/dehs
xbere the STWs are currently the main source of irrigation: and (ii) improvinx
the surface drainage facilities for eUfluent disRosal from STWs that are
oumping SGW for subsurface drainage.
C. Project Cost
4.28  . The project cost including physical and price contingencies is
estimated at US$48.46 M with a foreign exchange component of US$23.53 M. The
cost estimate includes customs duties on imported equipment and taxes on
project components, estimated at US$5.6 M. The project cost summary is
presented in Table 4.2. Detailed project costs are given in Annex 6,
Tables 1-7.
Table 4.2: Project Cost Summary
Local    Forei     Total       Local  Foreign  Total
- (Rs M) ---------              ------- (US$ M) -----
PTWs (including
installation)                174.05   413.72    587.77       7.74   18.39   26.13
Watercourse Improvement       186.10    14.60    200.70       8.27    0.65    8.92
Project Implementation
Assistance                    32.19      -        32.19      1.43    -        1.43
Groundwater/Future SCARP
Transition Studies            26.10     6.51      32.61      1.16    0.29    1.45
Project Impact Evaluation       6.39     1.12       7.51      0.28    0.05    0.33
Project Management             17.90     -         17.90      0.80    -        0.80
Training                        1.01     -          1.01      0.04    -        0.04
Equipment & Vehicles          Q16.03     2.92      18.93      0.71    0.13   0.Q84
Base Cost                  459.77   438.85    898.62      20.43   19.51   39.94
Physical Contingencies       8.63     0.94       9.57      0.38    0.04    0.42
Price Contingen_ies        164.0Q   160.73    324.75       4.12    3.98 .0J
Subtotal                172.65   161.67    334.32       4.50    4.02    8.52
Total Project Cost         622       0.52         .       2
4.29      The base cost estimates are based on unit rates quoted by suppliers
for equipment, materials and works under ongoing projects. Physical
contingencies of 10  were appl'ed to all project component base costs, except
for the PTWs and watercourse improvement component. Annual price
contingencies are based on the inflation rates estimated by the Bank and are
shown below.



- 21 -
Inflatlon Rates (X)
FY91        FY92       PY93    ri2 9                FY9
Local               12.0       9.0        6.0        6.0       6.0        6.0
Foreign              7.9       6.4        2.3        1.5       2.3        3.0
D.  Project Financing
4.30      All project components would be eligible for IDA financing except
PTW incentives and vehicles, which would be financed by GOPunjab and GOSindh.
The proposed IDA credit of US$20 M equivalent would finance 41X of the total
project cost. The GOP would make available to GOPunjab and GOSindh, the
proceeds of the credit to finance the watercourse improvement, equipment,
project implementation assistance, hydrogeological study, impact evaluation,
and project management components of the project. For the PTWs component, GOP
would on-lend US$8.6 M equivalent from the credit proceeds to ADBP for a term
of fifteen years including three years of grace, with interest at the IBRD
variable lending rate. Such funds would be on-lent to farmers at terms
identical to those agreed under the Agricultural Credit Project and to be
incorporated into a subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and ADBP. The
signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOP and ADBP would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness. The terms of the subsidiary loan agreement
would require that ADBP would charge rates of retuni which would be positive
in real terms and would be sufficient to: (i) cover all its operating
expenditures including interest payments and returns on borrowing; (ii) make
provisions for bad debts and maintain these provisions at a rat.o to total
overdues of at least 40X but in any case not below the level prescribed by the
State Bank of Pakistan; and (iii) accumulate reserves adequate to ensure, in
conjunction with GOP's contribution to its paid-up capital that its ratio of
debt to equity is not greater than 7:1. GOP would also bear the foreign
exchange risk. Considering that GOP will be receiving an IDA credit at
standard terms, the exchange risk would be adequately covered. Approval of
the project (PC-l)  by the Executive Council of the National Economic
Committee (ECNEC) would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The proposed
financing plan is shown in Table 4.3. Details are given in Annex 7.
1/ PC-I stands for Planning Commission Proforma-I. It is a proforma on
which salient features of development projects are submitted for GOP's
approval.



- 22 -
Table 4.3: ProDosed Project Pinancing Plan ZI
(US$ M)
Total        OZ       Am           Farmers           DA
Cosit     Province              Cssh    Labor
Private tubewells       31.50      11.66/2   2.14/3   9.10       -         8.60LI
(installed)                       (37.0)    (6.8)   (28.9)               (27.3)
Watercourse             10.70       0.80      -        0.93      2.60       6.37
improvement                       (7.5)              (8.7)   (24.3)    (59.5)
Project                  1.88       0.18      -        -         -          1.70
implementation                   (10.0)                                 (90.0)
Groundwater/future
SCARP transition        1.90       0.24      -        -         -          1.66
studies                          (12.4)                                  (87.6)
Project impact           0.40       0.05      -        -         -         0.35
evaluation                       (11.9)                                  (88.1)
Project management       1.05       0.12      -        -         -          0.93
(11.7)                                 (88.3)
Training                 0.05       0.01      -        -         -          0.04
(20.0)                                 (80.0)
Engineering,
office equipment       0.98        0.63      -        -         -         0.35
& vehicles                       (64.3)                                  (35.7)
Total             48.46       13.69      2.14    10.03      2.60     20.00
(28.3)    (4.4)   (20.7)    (5.3)    (41.3)
LI Differences from Table 4.2 are due to inclusion of contingencies in cost
estimates
La PTW incentives provided by GOPunjab and GOSindh
LI IDA would finance 80X of eligible PTW loans, with remaining 20X financed by ADBP
resources. The ADBP/IDA credit to farmers is based on the estimate that 601 of
total PTWs are purchased on credit.
Ngj: Figures in parentheses are percentage shares of item cost financed by each
source.



- 23 -
E. Procurement
4.31     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.4 below:
Table 4.4: Zrocurement
(US$ K)
Procurement Method          Total Cost
ICB  LCB      ~Other
Private tubewells                                   31.50L        31.50
(including installation)                            (8.60)        (8.60)
Watercourse improvement                  10.70'                  10.70
(6.37)                   (6.37)
Project Implementation                               1.88"S        1.88
(1.70)       (1.70)
Groundwater/future                                   1.90A2        1.90
SCARP studies                                      (1.66)        (1.66)
Impact evaluation study                              0.401S        0.40
(0.35)       (0.35)
Project management                                   1.051         1.05
(0.93)       (0.93)
Training                                             0.05k         0.05
(0.04)       (0.04)
Engineering and                          0.49L9                   0.49
office equipment                        (0.35)                   (0.35)
Vehicles                                             0.491         0.49
Total                              11.19       37.27        48.46
(6.72)    (13.28)       (20.00)
,La ICB is not appropriate.
/b Farmers would procure PTWs through normal commercial channels.  Amount in
parentheses is for PTW credit.
/c Consultants would be recruited according to World Bank guidelines.
d  Payments of incremental project staff salaries.
a   Provincial procedures.
Lf Reserved procurement to be financed by the government.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Farmers would procure PTW equipment from normal commercial channels comprising
local vendors and drilling contractors. There are a variety of equipment in



- 24
the market at reasonable prices. For the improvement of about 500
watercourses in Punjab, farmars would supply all unskilled and skilled labor.
Procurement for civil works would comprise miscellaneous materials which
include brick, sand, gravel, precast concrete structures (npucca nuccas"), and
slabs which would be procured on the basis of LCB from various sources close
to work sites. Cement would be procured following usual procedures in Punjab.
Reinforcement steel bars, PVC, and concrete pipes would be procured by local
shopping. Due to the large number of sites and small civil works (averaging
US$5,100 equivalent), international competitive bidding (ICB) would not be
practicable. Therefore materials would be procured through local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures. The total number of contracts is estimated to be
about 70-90, averaging US$130,000 equivalent each. Procurement documents for
contracts for watercourse materials estimated to cost more than US$0.2 M would
be subject to prior review by IDA. Office equipment and project monitoring
equipment consisting of relatively small and unrelated packages that would not
attract foreign bidders would be procured following LCB or local shopping,
with local shopping limited to items costing not more than US$500 equivalent
each and an aggregate amount not to exceed US$100,000 equivalent. As reserved
procurement, vehicles would be purchased according to Government procedures.
All consultants financed from the credit would be selected following IDA
guidelines for use of consultants.
F. Disbursement
4.32      Proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against the following
expenditure categories:
(a) 80% of ADBP's credit amount for PTW credit;
(b) 100% of cif for foreign expenditures, 100% of ex-factory price for
locally manufactured equipment (excluding vehicles) and materials,
and 70% for off-the-shelf costs for office and monitoring equipment;
(c) 80% (tax being 20%) of the cost of internationally recruited, and
90% of the cost of locally recruited consultants;
(d) 90% of the cost of training;
(e) 89% of the cost of materials for watercourses and demonstration
centers;
(f) 92% of salaries and (non travel) allowances for incremental PMCs
staff ' OFWM field team salaries; and
(g) 85% of incremental operating costs of PMCs, including O&M of
vehicles and office expenses.
4.33      Total disbursement would be equivalent to about 85% of costs
excluding the YTW incentives, vehicles (reserved procurement), farmers'
contributions (cash and labor), PTW costs of farmers not requiring credit, and
taxes and duties. Except for contracts exceeding US$100,000, disbursements
for all categories in para 4.32 above, including those to ADBP for PTW credit,
would be made against certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). Full



- 25 -
documentation would be retained by ADBP, PMC, and Directorate General On-Farm
Water Management (DGOFWM) Punjab for review by supervision missions and would
be subject to audit by independent auditors. Disbursements for contracts
exceeding US$100,000 would require full documentation. To facilitate payment
for eligible expenditures, one Special Account each in the National Bank of
Pakistan would be established by GOPunjab and GOSindh with initial deposits of
US$0.7 and US$0.2 M, respectively, for watercourse improvement (Punjab only),
equipment, PIA, hydrogeological study, impact evaluation, training, and
incremental staff salaries. The credit proceeds would be disbursed over six
and a half years. The disbursement profile is based on the experience gained
under the STPP and the profile for agricultural projects in Pakistan. The
estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 8. The credit closing date
would be December 31, 1997.
G. Proiect Accounts and Audit
4.34      Separate project accounts would be maintained by the PMCs, the
DGOFWM Punjab, and ADBP for the project. To ensure appropriate financial
reporting to IDA, agreements were obtained from GOPunjab. GOSindh. and ADBP
that: (a) the seRarate project accounts. including SRecial Accounts. would be
audited by an indeRendent auditor acceptable to IDA: (b) coRies of the audit
report would be sent to IDA no later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year: and (c) the audit reRort would include a seDarate oRinion on
SOEs    The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during
the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal
applications.
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Roles of Implementing A2encies
5.01      The project would be implemented by the PIDs of Punjab and Sindh,
and farmers in collaboration with ADBP, WAPDA, the Provincial Agricultural
Departments (PADs), and the District Administrations (DAs). The proposed
organization of the project is shown in Charts I and II, and the roles of
various implementing agencies are described below.
5.02      The Proiect Management Cells (PMCs).  The Punjab and Sindh PIDs
would assign overall project management and coordination responsibility to
designated PMCs. In Punjab, the office of the SCARP-I Circle at Lahore would
be the PMC. The Superintending Engineer (SE) SCARP-I would be the Project
Director (PD) and head of the PMC. He would report to the Chief Engineer at
Faisalabad and act as the secretary to the Provincial Policy Committee
(PPC)(para 5.14) . He would be assisted by existing and some incremental
staff of the SCARP-I circle, and consultants. Initially, the PMC staff would
continue to hold responsibility for SCARP-I operations in addition to their
project implementation duties. However, as project implementation proceeds
and STWs are closed, the staff would devote full time to project activities.
Upon the completion of the SCARP Transition Pilot Project (STPP), its staff
would be transferred to the proposed project.



- 26 -
5.03      In Sindh, the office of the Project Director (PD) SCARP North Rohri
Project (SNRP) at Naushero Feroze would be designated as the PMC. The PD SNRP
would be head of the PMC. He would report to the Chief Engineer Development
Hyderabad and act as the secretary of the PPC. He would be assisted by the
existing staff of SNRP and consultants.
5.04      Both Punjab and Sindh PIDs have appointed their PDs.  GOPuniab and
GOSindh would establish the PMCs before Credit effectiveness. The PMCs would
be responsible for:
(a)  conducting TW to TW surveys through the project field units (PFUs);
(b) maintaining close coordination with all implementing agencies,
monitoring progress, facilitating implementation, and acting as the
secretariat to the PPC;
(c) recruiting project consultants, and coordinating training programs;
(d) carrying out ground water modelling and soil/water management
studies;
(e) delivering the incentives envisaged under the project to farmers
installing PTWs through project field units (para 5.05);
(f) preparing and submitting for IDA's review, annual work plans by
September 30, each year, and consolidated quarterly progress reports
for all project components (para 5.17);
(g) maintaining project accounts and preparing withdrawal applications;
and
(h) carrying out impact evaluation studies.
5.05      Proiect field units (PFUs).  The PNCs would assign project
implementation responsibility at the field level to PFUs. Both Punjab and
Sindh PIDs would establish the PFUs before Credit effectiveness.   In the
Punjab subproject, currently there are two divisions under the SE SCARP-I
Circle, headed by executive engineers (XENs). One more XEN would be
transferred to the project from the STPP upon its completion. These three
XENs would be the heads of the PFUs to be stationed at Sheikhupura, Nankana
Sahib, and Hafizabad. In the Sindh subproject, there would be one PFU headed
by the XEN responsible for the Moro and Sakrand units of SNRP. The PFUs would
be assisted by existing divisional staff and consultants. The PFUs' main
responsibilities would include:
(a) carrying out TW to TW surveys to promote installation of PTWs by
farmers;
(b) facilitating issuance of APBs to farmers by maintaining close
liaison with the district administration offices (DAOs);
(c) helping farmers in obtaining credit from ADBP;



- 27 -
(d)  helping farmers in securing electric connections for PTWs from
WAPDA;
(e)  advising farmers on appropriate TW technology, including selection
of appropriate equipment and location of PTWs;
(f)  maintaining liaison with agriculture extension and OFWM staff for
establishment of demonstration plots and implementation of training
programs;
(g)  monitoring groundwater table and quality and recommending any
required remedial measures to PMCs; and
(h)  reporting progress to their respective PMCs and acting as the
secretariat of the Project Area Coordination Committees (PACCs)
(para 5.09).
In addition to these project specific services, participating farmers would
also benefit from the agricultural advice provided normally by the Provincial
extension services.
5.06      Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADEP) would be
responsible for timely delivery of credit to farmers for installation of PTWs.
It is estimated that about 60X of farmers would apply for PTW credit. The
Punjab subproject area falls in the jurisdiction of Regional Managers for the
districts of (a) Sheikhupura (5980 PTWs); (b) Gujranwala (3880 PTWs); (c)
Faisalabad (2950 PTWs); and (d) Jhang (190 PTWs). The Sindh subproject area
is under the Regional Managers for Nawab Shah (900 PTWs) and Naushero Feroze
Districts (900 PTWs). All project districts in the Punjab and Sindh
subproject areas are adequately staffed, and there are sufficient number of
branch offices to meet the project requirements for credit processing. The
MCOs/FMCOs in the project area would work in close collaboration with the PFUs
during the TW to TW surveys to identify farmers' credit requirements and
ensure expeditious processing of applications. ADBP staff would also
facilitate availability of blank APBs forms to farmers and liaise with the
district administration staff (patwaris) to expedite verification of farmers'
land records. Assurances have been obtained from ADBP that: FMCOs posted in
the project area would be trained in TW technology at the Niaz Beg Training
Institute or other appropriate training center; and additional FMCOs would be
posted, if necessary.
5.07      Water and Power Development Authority (VAPDA) would provide electric
connections to farmers who are close to electric supply and who decide to
install electric PTWs. The Punjab subproject area lies in the jurisdiction of
the Area Electricity Boards (AEBs) of Gujranwala and Faisalabad, and the Sindh
subproject area in that of the AEB Hyderabad. Assurances have been obtained
from WAPDA that it would provide adequate quantities of electrification
materials to its regional stores in the above AEBs to meet the project's
requirements for providing connections at cost to PTWs in a timely manner.
The PFUs in the two subproject areas would assist farmers in completing
formalities necessary for securing connections. They would maintain close
liaison with the AEBs in this regard.



- 8 -
5.08      The Directorate General of On-Farm Water Development (DGOFWM) of
Punjab PAD would be responsible for the improvement of some 500 watercourses
in their respective subproject areas. Improvement of watercourses will be
carried out in close consultation with the Punjab PMC to ensure formation of
WUAs will be coordinated with watercourse improvement and PTW development.
Currently, two OFWM field teams are posted in the area. To help meet the
project targets, additional three teams would be posted. The field teams
would work in close cooperation with PFUs during the TW to TW surveys to
encourage Water Users Associations (WUAs) and farmer subgroups to either take
over existing STWs or to install PTWs jointly. Priority would be given to
watercourses which meet this criterion. The renovation of watercourses would
be undertaken after the associated STWs have been "transitioned".
Watercourses would be designed for canal and PTW discharges only.
5.09      The DGOFWM of Punjab would organize training courses for the
extension Field Assistants and Agricultural Officers (AOs) posted in the
project areas in TW water management, and soil and water management techniq'tev
under conditions of marginal quality water. Appropriate "extension packages'
would be developed for delivery to farmers in the project area. Training
curricula developed under the STPP would be utilized and further developed.
The DGOFWM and the Directorate General of Agricultural Extension (DGAE) would
jointly establish demonstration plots on farmers' land to demonstrate TW water
management and cost effective inter-farm water distribution techniques. The
project would provide for inputs required for the demonstration plots.
5.10      The Provincial Irrigation Departments would carry out required
rehabilitation and remodelling works in the project area under the ongoing
Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation (ISR-II) Project (CR 1888-PAK)(para
4.27).
5.11      The District Administrations in the project area would be assigned
the responsibility for timely issuance of APBs to farmers. The Provincial
Policy Committee (PPC) (para 5.14) would issue special directives to the
Deputy Commissioners (DCs) of the project districts to undertake district-
wide campaigns in the project area to issue APBs to farmers. The PFUs and the
ADBP FMCOs/MCOs would provide lists of farmers desirous of obtaining APBs to
the DCs.
B. Project Coordination and Implementation
5.12      At the field level, the existing Proiect Area Coordination
Committees (PACC) in the two subproject areas would be responsible for
ensuring coordination among various agencies and facilitating project
imp!--r.sntation. In the Punjab subproject area, the existing PACC, established
und- che STPP, is headed by the Chief Engineer PID Faisalabad.  Members of
the PACC would include PD of PMC, XENs of PFUs, SEs of PIDs responsible for
canal water distribution, SEs of WAPDA's AEBs at Gujranwala, and Faisalabad,
Regional Managers of ADBP in the project area, Deputy Director of Agriculture,
the Area Coordinator of OFWM, farmers' representatives (e.g., Chairmen of
selected WUAs -- by special invitation), and representatives from the office
of the concerned DCs. One of the XENs of the PFUs would act as secretary to
the PACC. The PACC would meet at least once every quarter.



- 29
5.13      In the Sindh subproject, the existing PACC headed by the Chief
Engineer Hyderabad would perform the same functions as the Punjab PACC. Its
members would include PD SNR project, XENs of PFUs, SE of PID responsible for
canal water supplies in the project area, SE of WAPDA's AEB Hyderabad, ADBP's
Regional Managers for the Nawab Shah and Naushero Feroze districts, Deputy
Director Agriculture, the area coordinator of OFWM project, farmers'
representatives (e.g. Chairmen of WUA's -- by special invitation) and
representatives of the concerned DCs. The XEN of the PFU Moro/Sakrand units
would be the secretary of the PACC. The PACC would meet at least once every
quarter.
5.14      The existing Provincial Policy Committees (PPCs), established under
the STPP and Command Water Management Projects, would provide policy guidance
and steer project implementation by providing inter-agency coordination at the
highest level. The PPC's would be headed by the Provincial Planning &
Development Departments and their members would include Secretaries of
Irrigation, Agriculture, and Finance Departments, General Manager/Executive
Directors ADBP, General Managers (Operations) or Chief Engineers AEBs of
WAPDA, and representatives of the DCs. The PDs of the PMCs would be the
secretaries of their respective PPCs.
5.15      Proiect Implementation.   The project would be implemented over a
period of six years. To ensure that the project would start up on time, the
PMCs and PIA consultants should be appointed and be in place as early as
possible for the project to get off to a quick start (paras 4.19 and 5.04).
Since the installation of PTWs by farmers will depend on the early delivery of
project inputs particularly of PTW cash incentives and credit, the PIA
consultant's initial tasks would be to carry out detailed surveys and prepare
work plans in order to provide technical assistance and project inputs to
farmers. The PIA consultants would also assist the PMCs to monitor key
physical and financial indicators and take corrective action when rAquired.
The hydrogeological consultants would assist the PMCs to monitor groundwater
and hydrologic parameters and make reports on the status of these parameters
(Annex 4). The impact evaluation of the project would be carried cnLoughout
the project implementation period (para 4.23 and Annex 5). The project
implementation schedule is given in Chart 3.
5.16      Mid-Term Review.  In view of: (i) the pilot characteristics of the
project; (ii) its intended future expansion nationwide; (iii) the need to
evaluate the success of the incentives package and ability of small farmers to
ptrchase water on reasonable terms, a mid-term review will be undertaken
durinf the third year of imRlementation. but not later than December 31. 1993.
This review would be carried out jointly by GOPunjab, GOSindh and IDA
according to terms of reference that will be drawn up by GOPunjab and GOSindh
and which shall be approved by IDA before December 31, 1992. This mid-term
review would allow opportunity to effect any changes in policy which may be
desirable based upon experience under the initial operation of this project
and will contribute to improving this project and the design of repeater
projects.
5.17      Project Reporting.  The PMCs would submit to IDA quarterly progress
reports which would update and assess implementation of project components
during the previous three months. The reports would list key physical and



- 30 -
financial implementation indicators and give details concerning closure of
STWs and development of PTWs and progress of incentive package. The PMCs and
IDA would agree on the report format by end-July, 1991 and the PMCs would
forward the reports to IDA within 45 days after each quarter, beginning with
the quarter ending December 31, 1991. Within six months of the Credit closing
date, GOPunjab and GOSindh would prepare and forward to IDA its input for a
project completion report which would summarize project performance and
evaluate the project's successes and problems.
VI.  PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES. FRM INCOME. AND COST RECOVERY
A. Production
6.01      The project is expected to increase agricultural production over
about 415,000 ha in Punjab and 126,000 ha in Sindh project areas by providing
more reliable and timely supply of irrigation water. These supplies would be
made possible by replacing STWs with PTWs through the SCARP transition
process. In Punjab, the improvement of watercourses and lining of minor
canals would further improve the supply and distribution of both surface and
groundwater. As a result of the project, cropping intensities, crop yields,
and net farm incomes of both subproject areas are expected to rise over the
existing relatively low levels.
6.02      Under the 'present' situation, cropping intensities range from 120-
136X for small farms, and 106-122X for large farms in Punjab; in Sindh,
intensities for small and large farms are 96-111 and 94-104X, respectively.
In the absence of the project in Punjab, cropping intensities are expected to
decrease by about 21 for both small and large farms due to reduced irrigation
supplies caused by the gradual deterioration of STWs. As a result. basmati
rice, currently the largest cultivated and the most water consuming crop in
the project area, is expected to decrease in cropped area. However, without
the project, cropping patterns in the Sindh project area are expected to
remain essentially unchanged.
6.03      Under the project, the installation of PTWs and improvement in
availability of supplementary groundwater supplies are expected to increase
overall irrigation efficiency. Based on field observations and trends in the
STPP, increases in cropping intensities are estimated to be about 6-91 due to
optimum utilization of irrigation water supplies. Cropping intensities that
are anticipated to be attained under different modes of irrigation under the
proposed project are shown in Table 6.1.



- 31 -
Table 6.1:  Crop2n- Intensity *X)
Source of Irritation                    Puntab              Sindh
&mULl    Large     Small    Large
A.  Eresent Z
Canal water                         120      106         96       94
Canal & purchased PTW water         132      116         96       94
Canal & PTW water                   136      122        111      104
B.  Without Project &
Canal water                         118      104         96       92
Canal & purchased PTW water         132      116         96       94
Canal & PTW water                   134      120        115      106
C.  With Prolect
Canal water                         116      102         96       92
Canal & purchased PTW water         134      120         96       96
Canal & PTW water                   142      130        120      112
,   Currently all farmers are receiving SCARP TW water.
b  Existing SCARP TWs are expected to be phased out due to ageing and
breakdown over a period of 15 years.
6.04      In the Punjab subproject area, the major crops grown are basmati
rice and wheat. Basmati rice is cultivated on 321 of the kharif cropped area,
whereas wheat is planted on 62X of the rabi cropped area. In Sindh, the
principal crops grown are cotton and wheat. Cotton occupies about 46X of the
Kharif cropped area, while wheat takes up 711 of the rabi cropped area.
Fodder (berseem), sugarcane, and citrus are other main crops grown in both
project areas. Under the project, changes in cropping patterns in each
subproject area are expected. The major trends for the changes are: (a) in
Punjab, the acreage for major cash crops such as basmati rice and wheat would
increase by 131 and 10, respectively, and; (b) in Sindh, cotton and wheat
acreage would have the highest increases, where the environment is more
suitable for their cultivation. The acreage of cotton and wheat are expected
to increase by 12X and 61, respectively.
6.05      Among different groups of farmers, PTW owners are expected to
realize the highest crop yields: in Sindh, PTW installation would increase
crop yields by about 7-10, while the combined effect of PTW development and
watercourse improvement in Punjab would increase crop yields by 9-121. For
farmers purchasing water, no change in cropping pattern and moderate
increases (about 51) in crop yields are anticipated. For non-participating
farmers (22X of the total farmers, most of whom are in SGW areas), who are
currently relying on canal and STW irrigation water supplies only, both
cropping intensities and crop yields are expected to fall slightly due to the
elimination of supplemental irrigation water formerly pumped by STWs from FGW



- 32
areas. However these farmers will benefit from improvement to canal supplies,
especially targeted to this group (para 4.27).
6.06      At full project development, as a result of the expected increases
in cropping intensity and crop yields, annual gross value of production in the
Punjab subproject area would reach Rs 5.9 billion compared to Rs 5.0 billion
without the proj ct situation; in Sindh, annual gross value of production is
expected to increase from Rs 915 M to Rs 1 billion. Most of the increased
production from the project would be through higher yields of the major crops
(i.e. basmati rice, wheat, cotton, and sugarcane). In Punjab, basmati rice
production would be 46,000 tons higher than without the project situation; the
production of wheat and sugarcane would reach 395,000 tons and 2,714,000 tons,
respectively -- about 20% and 23% increases. In Sindh, cotton and wheat
production would be about 40,000 tons and 103,000 tons with the project, which
are about 6,000 tons and 8,000 tons higher than without the project situation.
The total 'without' and 'with' project and the incremental production of main
crops in the subprojects are summarized in Table 6.2 below.
Table 6.2: Projected Annual Production
('000 tons)
Punjab                            Sindh
Without    With  Incremental      Without  With  Incremental
Basmati               137      183       46              -        -       -
Cotton                  -        -         -            34      40        6
Wheat                 330      395       65             95     103        8
Fodder (kharif)       535      576       41             34      36        2
Fodder (rabi)      1,119    l,k04        85            144     150        6
Sugarcane          2,212    2,714       502            896     958       62
Orchards              156      170       14             47       50       3
Others (oilseeds       31       34         3            11       13       2
and pulses)
B. Marketing and Prices
6.07      Current marketing, processing, and pricing arrangements of food
grains and industrtal products are handled by both public and private sectors.
Increasingly, how. oer, marketing and processing activities are carried out by
the private sector, while government procurement is limited to certain food
and exports items (rice, wheat, cotton, and sugarcane). Public sector
procurement is handled by the Provincial Food Directorates and the Pakistan
Agricultural Supply and Services Corporation (PASSCO) which buys from
producers and private traders at prices established by the Agricultural Price
Commission. The PASSCO, Rice Export Corporation (RECP), local grain
merchants, cotton ginneries, and sugar refineries have established a marketing
network in the project areas. Among many marketing centers in the Punjab
project area, Sheikhupura, Faisalabad, and Chiniot cities are nearby,
including metropolitan Lahore which is only 30 km away. Hyderabad city, a big
market for agricultural produce, is situated at distance of about 100 km from
the Sindh project area. All these marketing centcrs are linked by rail or
roads and adequate transportation facilities are available for transporting



- 33 -
agricultural produce and inputs. Therefore, present marketing and processing
facilities are adequate to handle the project's projected incremental inputs
and outputs.
6.08      Considering that the population is growing at a rate of 3X per
annum, the greater part of expected annual agricultural production would be
sold in domestic markets. Currently, about 60X of wheat consumption is
consumed on the farm, and the rest is marketed through the public and private
sectors. While the production of oilseeds barely meets 301 of domestic
consumption, fodder are essentially used on the farm. Both cotton and
sugarcane are absorbed by the domestic market or exports.
6.09      Cotton and sugarcane are sold, either directly or through an
intermediary, to ginneries and sugar mills. In the Punjab project area, sugar
mills are located at Sangla Hill, Jaranwala, and Faisalabad, and at Sakrand in
the Sindh project area. In the areas, where there is no sugar mill, sugarcane
is usually processed into 'gur'(raw sugar) for local consumption. Ginned
cotton is consumed domestically as well as exported by the state owned Cotton
Export Corporation. Cotton (raw cotton) exports reached about 840,000 tons
(US$930 M equivalent) in FY89. Since Pakistan is a low cost producer of
cotton and the recent deregulation of cotton export trade has induced the
private sector to compete directly with the public sector, there are good
prospects for improving the production and marketing of cotton. Relatively
small quantities of cotton are produced in the Punjab subproject area and
marketing of this commodity would not be a problem.
6.10      Producers sell most of their paddy to private rice mills.
Currently, except for Basmati rice which fetches a better market price, about
501 or less of total rice production is consumed on the farm while most of the
marketable surplus is exported.  In FY89, over 850,000 tons (US$304 H
equivalent) of rice was exported, recording the second among agricultural
exports.
6.11      Until the early 1980s, the agricultural pricing policy of Pakistan
was aimed at providing stable income to producers and availing cheap food to
the urban population. Thus, agricultural prices in Pakistan are influenced to
varying degrees by GOP policy intervent'ons through import/export controls,
taxes, subsidies of inputs (fertilizer, pesticides, irrigation water) and
outputs, and procurement/support prices for major crops.
6.12      Since the launching of the Seventh Five Year Plan, however, the
Government has adjusted the support price for wheat by 311 compared to 29%
increase during the entire Sixth Year Plan period, which ended in June 1998.
Moreover, as part of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2986-PAk)
underway since 1988, the Government has been consistently reducing economic
subsidies on phosphate and potash fertilizers while eliminating the subsidy on
nitrogenous fertilizer. Furthermore, the subsidy on pesticides has been
removed and privatization of pesticide import and distribution has been
established. While no adJustment has been made to irrigation water charges in
the past years, the Government has launched a program to improve the system of
assessment and collection of water charges in all four provinces.



- 34 -
6.13      Despite the significant input/output price adjustments made during
the recent years, agricultural prices in Pakistan still remain below
international prices equivalent, with the exception of Basmati rice for which
Pakistan has a virtual monopoly market in the Middle East. In 1988/89,
support prices for wheat and rice were about 20X below the border price
equivalents. However, the Government is expected to continue its efforts to
align domestic and world market prices. Further, the Government's recent
liberalization of domestic trade has enabled producers to sell their
marketable surplus at competitive prices. The private sector is responding
aggressively and its share accounted for about 40X of total cotton export in
1989. The farmgate prices used in the farm budget analysis, which shows
sufficient price incentives for the project participation, are presented in
Annex 9.
C. Farm Income Analysis
6.14      For the analysis of the proposed project, six representative farm
budget models have been developed according to two different farm sizes and
three available sources of irrigation (PTW ownership, purchase of water, canal
water): in Punjab, three models of 2 ha, representing the average size of
small farms (761 of the farmers owning 421 of the project area), and three
models of 10 ha, representing the average of medium (5-10 ha) and large farm
(above 10 ha) sizes (24X of the farmers owning 581 of the area); in Sindh,
similarly, three of small (3.6 ha) and large (30 ha) farm models, representing
71 and 931 of the total project area, have been formulated. The average size
of small farms in Sindh is less than 5 ha, and above 10 ha for large farms.
For the farm budget analyses for PTW owners (jointly or individually),
additional income was derived from the sale of water to neighboring farmers
without PTWs. Currently, sale and purchase of water are not a common practice
in the Sindh subproject area where large farms (above 30 ha) cover more than
901 of the project area. However, with the closure of STWs, it is expected
that some farmers would be willing to purchase PTW water from neighboring
farmers. The details of farm distribution are presented in Annex 11.
6.15      Under the project, in Punjab, about 25,700 of the farm families are
expected to jointly or individually invest in PTWs, and about 54,100 farms are
expected to benefit through purchase of water from these PTW owners. It is
also expected that most small farmers would install 14 liters per second (0.5
cusec) TWs, and large farmers would install 28 liters per second (1 cusec)
TW8. Farmers, who would rely on canal supplies only due to the closure of
STWs, would benefit from the watercourse improvement. Out of 6,200 farm
families in Sindh, about 2,400 farmers would invest in PTWs and about 2,200
farm families would purchase water from neighboring PTW owners. Non-
participating farmers who would have to rely on canal supplies only, most of
whom are in SGW areas, would still benefit from saline groundwater STWs
pumping marginal quality water mixed with canal supplies. The remaining non-
participating farmers would be in the head reaches of canals with more
reliable surface supplies. The annual farm income of non-participating
farmers (about 21 of total farmers) will be lower by about 0.41-5.52.
6.16      The results of the farm budget analysis indicate that the net farm
income of participating farmers in the project area will increase. However,
such benefits in farm income are not likely to be distributed uniformly among



- 35 -
all farm groups. In both subproject areas, farmers owning PTWs (jointly or
individually) will realize the highest increase in net farm income. In
Punjab, the per capita farm family income per annum for small PTW owners would
increase from Rs 24,400 to about Rs 29,900 in 1990 prices with an increase of
23X, while the income of large farmers would rise from Rs 100,100 to Rs
107,500 with 71 increase. The larger percentage benefit for small farmers
reflects the fact that many larger farmers already own PTWs and that small
farmers use available supplies more intensively. Similarly, small farmers
owning PTWs in Sindh would also realize the highest increases in net farm
income followed by large farmers ownir.g PTWs: the annual incomes for small and
large farmers are Rs 23,000 (191 increase) and Rs 105,200 (61 increase),
respectively. The higher income for PTW owners is attributed to higher crop
yields, reflecting adequate and timely water availability, which cannot be
assumed for farmers who have to buy irrigation water (those buying water would
pay about Rs 134 per ha or 41 of the cost of inputs). Thus, these projected
increases in farm income should offer incentives for all farmers to
participate in installing PTWs. Those farmers who will rely on purchasing TW
water from neighboring farmers, are also expected to achieve some incremental
net farm incomes. Their annual net incomes for small and large farmers in
Punjab would be Rs 23,100 (4.51 increase) and Rs 97,300 (41 increase),
respectively; while the farm incomes for such small and large farmers in Sindh
are Rs 14,600 (3.51 increase) and Rs 84,700 (2X increase). The results of
farm budget analysis are given in Table 6.3, and details are in Annex 11.
Table 6.3: Summarv of Farm Budget Analysis
Small                        Large
Without  K4Ih  Incrmental    ithout   Wi    Incremental
--- ( Rs ) ----------   ---------- ( Rs ) ---------
Source of Irrigation:
I. Purchase of PTW Water
Punjab        22,100   23,100    1,000      93,400    97,300      3,900
Sindh         14,100   14,600       500     83,000    84,700      1,700
II. PTW Water
Punjab        24,400   29,900    5,500    100,100   107,500       7,400
Sindh         19,300   23,000    3,700      99,300   105,200      5,900
D.  Cost Reeove
6.17      Cost recovery for irrigation and drainage systems has been a key
issue in the Bank's ongoing dialogue with GOP and the Provincial Governments.
Although the provincial 06M costs for irrigation and drainage systems have
averaged about 91 of the annual provincial budgets over the last five years,
the condition of irrigation and drainage systems are far from satisfactory.
The situation is further exacerbated with the large O&M expenditure (about 551
of total irrigation and drainage O&f expenditure) required for STWs, the
performance of which has rapidly deteriorated. Recoveries from water charges



- 36 -
for STWs represents only about 20X of the O&M costs as compared to 80X for the
surface irrigation systems. The gap between recoveries and O&M costs is
primarily due to the low level of water charges but under-assessment and
collection leakages also contribute to this gap. Therefore, closure of STWs
in the project area will elimiL,ate the fiscal burden of operating,
maintaining, and replacing STWs in FGW areas covered under the project and
will greatly improve the overall ratios of irrigation cost recovery in these
areas.
6.18      The annual O&H expenditures for all STWs in the Provinces of Punjab
and Sindh in FY90 were Rs 170 M and Rs 105 M, respectively; this is about 20X
of what would be required for adequate O&M, i.e. about Rs 100,000 (US$4,651
equivalent) per STW. In terms of present value, closure of the 1,726 STWs in
the project area under the proposed project would result in O&M savings of Rs
391 M (US$18.2 M equivalent). In the future, closure of a'll of the estimated
11,000 STWs in FGW areas in Pakistani would result in estimated net budgetary
savings of about Rs 2.49 billion (US$116 M equivalent). For the project, even
after discounting the financial incentive to farmers provided by GOPunjab and
GOSindh, there will be a net saving of Rs 224 H (US$10.4 M equivalent)V.
This is in addition to the US$38 M net benefit of the project. The Government
is also taking other measures to improve irrigation cost recovery. Under the
ASAL (Ln. 2986-PAK) and ISRP-II (Cr. 1888-PAK) the Government has developed
both short and long term plans to improve assessment and collection of water
charges, which are being implemented.
6.19      The cost of the proposed project would be shared by the
beneficiaries. Assuming that 601 of PTWs are purchased on credit, farmers
would pay an average 241 of the cost of PTWs as cash contribution and repay
the ADBP loan of 29X of cost of PTWs, or a total of 531 of PTW costs. Farmers
also will pay full costs of PTW O&M. For watercourse improvement component,
cost recovery requirements will be the same as those for the proposed Third
On-Farm Water Management Project, in which beneficiaries would contribute
unskilled labor and hired masons (24X of cost) toward the improvement of
watercourses, and would repay 301 of the cost of materials within three years
with no grace period. All O&H of improved watercourses will be carried out by
WUAs. OFWM staff will emphasize the obligation of continued O&M of
watercourses b, members of WUAs when establishing the WUAs. Reconfirmation of
existing cost recovery commitment for OFWM was obtained from GOPunjab during
appraisal. Assurances were obtained from GOPunjab that 30X of the cost of
construction materials provided to farmers for renovation of watercourses
would-,be recovered from farmers. in six eaual six-monthly installments over a
period of three years with io grace  erxiod.
6.20      For PTW electrical connection charges, the Bank has reached an
understanding with the Government under the Rural Electrification Project
(REP) (Ln.3148-PAK) on full cost recovery, without any subsidy. Similar
arrangements would also apply for the proposed project. To those farmers
wishing to install electric PTWs, WAPDA would provide the connections at cost
and ADBP would lend the required amounts as part of the PTW loan to cover the
cost of connection from the TW to the transformer.
)/ Gross savings less recovery of water charges at current rates.



- 37 -
VII. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND RISKS
A. Production Impact
7.01      The project would increase agricultural production by providing more
reliable and timely deliveries of water using PTWs, particularly during the
Rabi (winter) season, and savings in water losses resulting from canal and
watercourse improvements. These would enable farmers to alter their cropping
practices while increasing cropping intensity as well as crop yields. As a
result of the project, the net incremental value of production (in FY91
prices) in the Punjab subproject area would be about Rs 806 million, of which
Basmati rice, wheat, fodder (kharif) and sugarcane contribute about 91X of the
total. In Sindh, the incremental value of production would be about Rs 81
million. Of the total, cotton, wheat, and sugarcane account for about 861.
7.02      In Punjab area, the project would directly benefit approximately
80,000 farm families of predominantly small farm holdings with less than 5 ha.
As a result of the expected increases in production, total labor requirement
is estimated to increase from 28 M work-days to 33 M work-days (181 increase).
The annual per capita income from project activities of smallholders (average
of 2 ha) who comprise about 76% of the total farms is expected to be about
US$225 equivalent, as compared to be about US$185 without the project. These
incomes are substantially below per capita GNP of US$370 (1989 World Bank
estimate). In Sindh area, about 4,600 farm families would benefit from the
project with an increase in total labor requirement from 8.4 M work-days to
about 9 M work-days; an increase of 71 over the present situation. The annual
per capita income of smallholders (average of 5 ha), accounting for 241 of the
total farms, would increase from US$175 to US$210.
7.03      Employment of women labor force would be increased, especially with
the improved cotton production envisaged in the project area. Since provision
of laundry places and buffalo baths on renovated watercourses would be
provided, women's working conditions would be improved. Women would also
benefit from PTW development on their farms due to their closer access to
water (although they may prefer canal water since it is less likely to be hard
water).
B. Economic Analysis
7.04      The estimated economic rates of return (ERRs) for the project is 241
(241 for Punjab and 201 for Sindh). The ERRs and the Net Present Values
(NPVs) for each subproject and total project are shown in Table 7.1 below:
Table 7.1: Economic Rates of Return and Net Present Values
ERR (X)         NPVs (Rs M)
Punjab                       24                660
Sindh                        20                 93
Total project                24                753



- 38 -
7.05      The ERR of the Punjab subproject is higher than in Sindh due to the
higher cropping intensities and crop yields assumed under the project because
of the larger amount of irrigation water availability and the improved water
management practices. At a discount rate of 10, the assumed opportunity cost
of capital in Pakistan, the estimated NPV of the project is about Rs 753 M
(US$33.5 M). Annex 12 presents the benefit and cost streams for the two
subprojects and the total project.
7.06      The underlying assumptions and the treatment of key variables in the
derivation of the ERRs are as follows:
(a) Project Darticipati2n. The number of farm families likely to invest
in PTWs during the project implementation period of six years has
been set at 12,956 and 1,800 in Punjab and Sindh, respectively.
However, because of joint ownership and sale of water, a total of
80,000 farm families in Punjab and 4,600 farm families in Sindh
would benefit from the proposed project.
(b) Ajricultural Production. Projected crop yields for 'with project'
case were conservatively estimated over the existing relatively low
levels although the project would provide more "reliable" and
"timely" deliveries of water using PTWs. Moreover, since the rate
of declining quantum of water caused by the deterioration of STWs
have not been documented, the assumptions made for the 'without
project' case did not take into account the decline in yields caused
by reduced reliability of STW water supply.
(c) Proi2ct life. A project life of twenty years is assumed for the
economic analysis. However, the PTWs are assumed to last for an
average of ten years; therefore, replacement cost of PTWs has been
added to the investment cost stream.
(d) Investment costs. The investment components of the project are:
PTWs installation, watercourse improvement, project implementation
assistance, groundwater and future SCARP transition studies, project
impact evaluation, project management, equipment, vehicles, and
replacement cost of PTWs.
(e) Prices. Farmgate prices for internationally traded goods are
derived from the latest World Bank commodity price forecasts, while
those for non-traded goods are based on domestic financial prices
(Annex 9). To reflect the economic impact of the project in terms
of forgone benefits and costs, all traded commodities and inputs are
valued at either import (wheat, maize, and fertilizer) or export
parity (rice, cotton, and sugarcane) prices. Appropriate
adjustments were made for freight, handling, processing and quality
differentials. Non-traded outputs and inputs as well as market wage
for labor were expressed in border rupees through application of a
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9.
(f) Operation and Maintenance. O&M of STWs and PTWs have been taken
into account in the analysis as recurrent costs.



- 39 -
7.07      It should be emphasized that the ERR provides only a very partial
indicator of project benefits. As mentioned in earlier paragraphs, a
principal project benefit is the reduction in the budgetary and management
burden on government that will result in transferring responsibilities for
groundwater delivery from the public sector to the private farmers who use the
water.
C. Sensitivity Analysis
7.08      Various sensitivity tests were carried out to show the robustness of
the project's viability. For the ERR of the project to drop to 101, either
the production cost would have to increase by 21X; the investment costs to
rise by 116X, or; the project's benefits decline by about 15X. The economic
viability of the project is more sensitive to changes in the project's
benefits than to production costs. However, given the assumptions for the
'with' and 'without' project situations (para 7.06(b)), a decline in the ERR
to 101 is unlikely to happen in reality. The project is also "time sensitive"
to the transfer of TW management to the private sector, and thus, the closure
of STWs must be simultaneously matched by PTW development to compensate for
loss of STW pumpage (paras 4.08 and 4.09). A failure in coordination of
project implementation and/or delay in replacement of SCARP TW pumpage by
farmers would jeopardize the projected benefits of the project. In order to
minimize this risk, participating farmers have been provided with financial
incentives to purchase private TWs, including cash assistance and credit, and
an effective project implementation mechanism has been put in place.
D. Environmental ImRact
7.09      The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening
category B under the provisions of Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A and
will not require the preparation of an environmental assessment. The project
would significantly improve the environment by preventing the deterioration of
productive agricultural land through waterlogging and salinity caused by poor
performance of STWs in FGW areas. Since there is a demand for supplemental
water for irrigation, it is expected that groundwater abstraction would
balance recharge of the aquifer and maintain present steady state levels. Any
over abstraction would be self limiting because PTW pump efficiencies would
rapidly diminish at levels below 6 meters (para 4.06). Under such conditions,
the project should not create any detrimental groundwater problems, such as
waterlogging, soil salinization or groundwater mining. Privatization would
lead to groundwater abstraction from the shallower aquifer which is generally
of better water quality. This would significantly reduce the potential of
salt accumulation in the soil due to recirculation. The potential for such
build up of salts in the soil and pesticides in the system would be studied
under the hydrogeological component (Annex 4).
7.10      The build up of nitrate levels in the groundwater due to excessive
use of nitrogenous fertilizers has not been observed so far. Cropping
intensities are expected to increase by about 6-91. However, due to
relatively low application of fertilizers in the project area, it is unlikely
that there would be future build up of nitrate levels in the groundwater.
Similarly, with respect to pesticide usage, no harmful effects are likely to
occur to the environment. Farmers in the project area usually apply only one



- 40 -
spray instead of the recommended doses of 2-3 sprays for the major crops of
rice and sugarcane. Moreover, the Government is actively encouraging
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) measures, which should reduce pesticide use
over time. The National Agricultural Commission (1988) has recommended that
the extended use of pesticides should be replaced with IPM techniques for all
major crops by 1992/93 and for other crops by 1995. The farmers in the
proje"  area have already started using such techniques.  For example, farmers
are destroying rice stubble immediately after harvest to control rice borers.
Similarly, sugarcane borers are being controlled by a combination of cultural,
biological, and chemical techniques.
7.11      In the western part of Punjab subproject area, the aquifer is highly
saline and groundwater from this aquifer is presently being pumped by drainage
STWs into surface drains. Government would continue to operate these STWs
since the private sector is unlikely to take over this function. However, due
to poor maintenance of the effluent disposal drains and outfalls, some
localized waterlogging and salinity has been observed. Moreover, due to the
poor performance of drainage STWs in these areas, saline intrusion into FGW
areas is likely to occur in the long run (of the order of 10-15 years), unless
preventive measures are taken. A comprehensive study, including environmental
assessment (Annex 4), would be carried out under the hydrogeological component
of the project to recommend improvements to the drainage STWs and surface
drainage systems. The study would also include measures to reduce possible
build up of salts in the soil, even in areas using usable groundwater, in
order to ensure long term sustainability of agriculture in the project area.
The terms of reference of the consultants would require that the environmental
assessment be linked with the sectoral environmental assessment of the
national drainage program, which would also need to address similar
environmental issues. In Sindh, highly saline water occurs at depth beneath
the fresh groundwater zone and at a shallow depth outside the project
periphery. By maintaining the present drainage STW groundwater withdrawal,
salt water encroachment, either laterally or vertically should be avoided. To
ensure long term sustainability of FGW abstr&ction in Sindh, a hydrogeological
study component similar to that for Punjab has been included.
E. Proiect Risks
7.12      Unless the PTWs are in place at the time the Government stops
operating the STWs, production losses, waterlogging and salinity could occut.
The successful implementation of the STPP, which is nearing completion, shows
that farmers' response to replacement of STWs has been positive. However,
experience under STPP has been mainly with electric PTWs which were provided
with highly subsidized electric connections, whereas under the proposed
project, mostly diesel PTWs are envisaged. Since diesel TW technology is
widely known in Pakistan where the majority (66%) of the existing PTWs are
diesel operated, the risk of farmers not investing in diesel PTWs is not high.
Adoption of diesel PTWs by farmers within the project areas would be
accelerated through the provision of financial incentives and credit
facilities that would be made available to them. However, since the financial
incentive contemplated is only 54% of the incentive under STPP, close
monitoring of farmers' response is necessary. A second risk comes from
adoption of programs tested in Punjab to the different socio-economic
conditions of Sindh, which is the reason this component is a pilot operation.



- 41 -
Under the STPP the farmers not purchasing PTWs were able to purchase water at
reasonable terms from neighboring farmers at reasonable prices. The
relatively small farm sizes in Punjab led to an active water market. This may
not occur in Sindh. A third risk would be that farmers in saline areas
currently obtaining water pumped by fresh groundwater STWs through canals
would be worse off with the closing of STWs if the canal rehabilitation and
remodelling work financed under the on-going ISR-II project (CR. 1888-PAK)
should be delayed. The assurances described in para 4.27 addressed this
issue, and would be followed up during supervision. Another risk facing the
project is a possible failure in coordination of project implementation.
Farmers would be frustrated if PTW loans are not provided on time. To avert
this risk, the project's organizational setup has a mechanism to closely
monitor project implementation, identify causes for delays, and initiate
appropriate remedial action. A provision for a mid-term review (para 5.16)
provides a mechanism for adjusting project design based upon initial
experience.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOP, GOPunjab, GOSindh and ADBP,
as appropriate, that:
(a) GOP would cause WAPDA to ensure that following the closure of the
STWs: (i) the capacity to be released by closing a STW would be
reserved for farmers in that chak/deh; and (ii) connections,
including 11 KV T-offs to such PTWs would be provided against
payment of full cost without delay (para 4.07);
(b) ADBP would: (i) post a team of Functional Mobile Credit Officers
(FMCOs) in each of the two subproject areas who would be especially
trained in TW lending operations and trained in TW technology at the
Niazbeg training institute or other appropriate training centers and
who would receive on-the-job training from the project consultants;
and (ii) facilitate availability of blank APBs to farmers (paras
5.06 and 4.12);
(c) GOPunjab and GOSindh would offer PTW incentives to farmers with
effect from July 1, 1991 and thereafter annually review the
operation of incentive package to assess its effectiveness and
availability of funds, consult with IDA on its findings and obtain
IDA's concurrence on any recommendation (para 4.11).
(d) GOPunjab would give priority to those watercourses for improvement
under the project where WUAs assume responsibility for operation of
STWs or WUAs/farmer groups cooperate to install PTWs jointly (para
4.15);
(e) GOPunjab and GOSindh would recruit consultants following IDA
guidelines: (i) to provide project implementation assistance (para
4.19); (ii) to carry out various hydrogoelogical studies and take
appropriate action to implement the studies' recommendations (para
4.21); (iii) to prepare feasibility studies for future SCARP



- 42 -
transition projects in Punjab and Sindh (para 4.22); and (iv) to
carry out project impact evaluation studies (para 4.23);
(f) GOPunjab and GOSindh would make timely and adequate budgetary
allocations for meeting the agreed targets under ISRP II for the
operation and maintenance of STWs in SGW areas (para 4.20);
(g) the Punjab and Sindh Irrigation Departments would carry out required
irrigation system rehabilitation works in their respective
subproject areas, giving priority to (i) improving surface
deliveries in chaks/dehs where STWs are currently the main source of
irrigation; and (ii) improving the surface drainage facilities for
saline effluent disposal from saline STWs (4.27);
(h) PMCs, ADBP and DGOFWM (Punjab) would jointly prepare and submit a
comprehensive training program for IDA's review by December 31, 1991
(4.24).
(i) ADBP, DGOFWM, and PMC would maintain separate accounts for the
project, which would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and would submit to IDA copies of audit reports
including separate opinions on reimbursements claimed on the basis
of SOEs, and on the operation of Special Accounts (para 4.34);
(j) the PACC and PPC would be maintained with agreed responsibilities
for coordinating project implementation (paras 5.12-5.14);
(k) a mid-term review, the terms of reference of which should be sent to
IDA for its concurrence before December 31, 1992, would be
undertaken jointly by GOPunjab, GOSindh and GOP and IDA during the
third year of project implementation, but not later than December
31, 1993 (para 5.16).
(1) GOPunjab would recover from farmers in six equal six-monthly
installments over a period of three years with no grace period, 301
of the cost of construction materials provided to them for
renovation of watercourses (6.19).
8.02      The following would be conditions of Credit effectiveness: (i)
appointment of PIA, hydrogeological and impact evaluation consultants (paras
4.19, 4.21 and 4.23); (ii) signing of subsidiary loan agreement between GOP
and ADBP (para 4.30); (iii) approval of the ECNEC for the project PC-I (para
4.30); (iv) establishment of PMCs and PFUs (paras 5.04 and 5.05); and (v)
agreement between Provinces and WAPDA for implementing measures referred to in
para 8.01 (a).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 14.8 M (US$20 M equivalent) on standard
terms with 35 years maturity. The Borrower would be the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan.



Meteorological Data for the Puniab Suboroject Area L
Station                 Jan.  Feb.  Mar:  Apr,  May   June  July  Aug.  Sep.  Oct. Nov. Dec,   Annual
Temperature (IC)
Lahore                  13.1  15.6  20.2  26.8  31.4  33.3  31.0  30.7  29.7  25.7  19.9  14.8         24.3
Faisalabad              11.6  14.2  19.0  25.7  30.7  33.4  31.7  31.1  29.4  24.9  18.5  13.4         23.6
Rainfall (mm)
Lahore                    28    28    52    25    26    48   222   183    68    20        6    10       716
Faisalabad                13    19    34    22    17    30   146    98    43        9     4     5       440
Relative humidity (X)
Lahore                    67    61    55    40    34    40    67    70    61    58    64    68         57.1
Faisalabad                67    62    58    45    37    42    62    66    60    54    64    68         57.1
Sunshine (hr/day)
Lahore                   7.1   7.0   7.8   9.1   9.9   8.9   7.0   7.6   8.7   8.7   8.4   7.0          8.1
Faisalabad               6.6   6.5   7.4   8.6   9.6   8.7   8.0   8.2   8.7   8.7   7.6   6.6          7.9
Wind sueed (km/day)
Lahore                    58    89   120   124   120   133   124   107    80    49    36    36         89.7
Faisalabad                67   111   129   132   147   169   173   132   111    75    49    53    112.3
Potential Evaoo-
transDiration (mm)Pk
Lahore                    61    82   141   201   247   244   190   179   164   125    77    55    1,766
Faisalabad                58    81   134   192   253   257   222   196   172   132    75    54    1,826
/a  Average climatic data for 1975-1989 from Pakistan Meteorological Department, Lahore.
b  Calculated by modified Penman method.



Meteorological Data for the Sindh Subproject Area L
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May  June  July   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec   Annual
Temperature (IC)          15.5  17.8  23.8  28.4  33.3  35.2  34.0  32.5  31.0  27.6  21.9  16.4    28.9
Rainfall (mm)                 -     -     -      3     2     5    53    54      9      6     2      3     140
Relative humidity (v )      59    55    52    28    46    55    64    68    65    58    60    43           59
Sunshine (hr/day)          8.3   8.4   8.3   9.1   9.8  10.5   7.8   6.7   9.5   9.6   9.1   8.1          9.8
Wind speed (km/day)        165   160   173   213   257   378   342   293   222   147   125   125          238
Potential Evapotrans-
piration (mm)L'            83   100   147   214   245   263   221   201   178   148   101    96   1,997
_a Average climatic data for 1961-1987 at Pakistan Meteorological Station, Nawab Shah.
ah  Calculated by modified Penman method.
METEORAM
M 
Xo1-



- 45 -                           EX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCAR? TRANSITION PROJECT
Cost Savings on O&K Budget of SCARP Tubewells Due to the Project
1.        In the 1950s, the government had embarked upon a series of salinity
control and drainage projects to counter the problems of waterlogging and
salinity caused by the expansion of irrigated agriculture in the project area.
In fresh groundwater areas, the government had installed 11,000 SCARP
tubewells (STWs), operating conjunctival for supplementary irrigation and
drainage. In the saline zone, about 2,000 STWs are serving as drainage wells
only, discharging effluent into drains. The performance of the STWs in the
fresh groundwater areas declined after a period of noticeable effect on
lowering the water table. This decline in performance is attributable to poor
management which resulted in frequent breakdowns of the STWs which reduced the
pumpage and led to rising water tables. Continuation of such operation has
significantly increased the O&N expenditures on the STWs, reaching US$80
million in 1988/89, and has become fiscally unsustainable.
2.        The 1979 Revised Action Program for Irrigated Agriculture (RAP),
financed by UNDP and executed by the Bank, recommended that future development
of fresh groundwater areas should be undertaken by the private sector, and
endorsed the transfer of STWs located in fresh groundwater areas to the
private sector. This policy was prompted by the recognition of the private
sector's encouraging response to public sector initiatives to facilitate
groundwater resource development. Private tubewell development was also
viewed as an effective vehicle for improving the conjunctive use of canal and
groundwater resources. Expenditure on O&N of STWs absorb 551 of total O&M
outlays on irrigation systems, but account for only 101 of the total
irrigation water supplies, compared with 29Z from PTWs, and the baLauce of 611
from surface water.  The annual O&  expenditures for all STWs in the Provinces
of Punjab and Sindh alone, in FY90 were Rs 170 M and Rs 105 M, respectively;
this is about 20X of what would be required for adequate O&M, i.e. about Rs
100,000 (US$4,651 equivalent) per STW. Without SCARP transition, and assuming
that the government will not replace any more STWs other than provide O&M
services to those STWs that are operating, one could expect a period of
approximately 15 years for all STWs to be out of commission and be replaced by
PTWs.
3.        Under the proposed projact, a total of 1346 STWs in Punjab and 380
STWs in Sindh will be "transitioned" and be replaced by PTWs. From the 1,346
STWs in Punjab, 1,010 STWs will be closed and 336 STWs transferred to private
sector operation. In Sindh, out of the 380 STWs, 280 STWs will be closed and
100 STWs cransferred to the private sector. It is assumed that transition
will be completed in six years in both Punjab and Sindh provinces according to
the schedule shown in Tables 1 and 2. Without the project, however, STWs will
continue to operate and the provincial governments will continue to provide
O&M services but will not be replacing any STW that are beyond economic



- 46 -                            _NN]Z2
Pagw 2
repair.  It is estimated that the  attrition of existing STWs due to aging
will be linear and take about 15 years. It is further assumed that private
tubewells will fill the gap in pumpage that would be created as STWs go out of
existence.
4.        Without the project and the assumptions given above, the present
value (discounted at 10) of the O&M cost to the government will be Rs 594
million as compared to Rs 294 million with the project conditions for Punjab
province. For Sindh province, the O&H expenditure without the project is
shown to be Rs 152.67 million compared to Rs 61.55 million under project
conditions. However, with the project, in order to attract farmers to switch
to the use of PTWs, the government will be spending Rs 16,000 per PTW in the
form of incentives which will amount to a total spending of Rs 147 million and
Rs 20.47 million for Punjab and Sindh, respectively. The provincial
governments of Punjab and Sindh will still realize net savings in O&f
expenditures amounting to Rs 153 million and Rs 70.66 million, respectively,
over and above what they have given out in the form of incentives. However,
such benefits will be realized only when a concerted effort is made on the
part of the government to enable farmers to install their own PTWs and make
transition smooth and fast. The package of incentives provided by government
to farmers wishing to install their own private tubewells under the project
(Rs 16,000 per private tubewell) is expected to hasten the rate of transition
without adversely affecting the net farm income position of farmers,
especially those with small landholdings.



PUNJAS
COWPARISON OF oe8 SAVINGS WITHOUT PROJECT AND WITH THE PROJECT USING SUBSIDY
MRs.Nittions)
YEAR
ITEN          BENCH MARK                    1              2              3              4               5              6              7              8              9             10             11             12             13              14             15
.,............ .........................._. .. . ...... ...............  ....  ................... ............................ ........................................................... ..................................... ....
PUNJAB PROVINCE
===,==== 3====
WITHOUT
PROJECT
6 OF STWS              1346            1256           1166            1076            986             896            806            716            626            536             446            356            266             176             86               0
01K COST              134.6    125.6    116.6    107.6                               98.6           89.6           80.6           71.6           62.6            53.6           44.6           35.6           26.6            17.6            8.6                0
PV OF COST                      594.0514
........... ... ...... .... ......... ..... .. ...... . ................................................ .... .... ,........... ,... ...... ...................
WITN
PROJECT
6 OF STWS              1346            1211           1009             740            471             202
o01  COST             134.6    121.1    100.9                            74          47.1           20.2
PV OF COST                      293.7891
................... .........................................  _...  ...... . ................... ....
PV OF 01K COST SAVINGS                         300.2622
INCENTIVES
20.74    31.12    41.44    41.44    41.44    31.12
PV OF INCENTIVES                               147.3095
NET SAVINGS TO PUNJAS                          152.9527
========
===========3========  ===============================================================3J
ii



SINDH
COMPARISON OF O&N SAVINGS WITHOUT PROJECT AND WITH THE PROJECT USING SUBSIDY
(Rs.Nittions)
ITEN            BENCH NARK                       1                2                3                4                 5                6                7                8                9               10               11                12               13               14               15
. ...... ........ ...... .... ...... ...... ........... .. .. .................... .......................................... ............. ............................ .. ........ .
SINDH PROVINCE
WITHOUT
PROJECT
8 OF STiS                   380              355               330              305              280               255              230              205               180              155              130              105                80               55               30                 5
O&S  COST                 34.2    31.95                      29.7    27.45                      25.2    22.95                     20.7    18.45                      16.2    13.95                     11.7             9.45               7.2            4.95                2.7            0.45
PV OF COST                          152.6722
WITH
PROJECT
J OF STWS                   380              342               266               152               57                  0
OIN COST                  34.2    30.78    23.94    13.68                                       5.13                   0                                                                                                                                                                                     co
PV OF COST                          61.54878
PV OF O11 SAVINGS 91.12348
INCENTIVES
2.88             4.32             5.76              5.76             5.76             4.32
PV OF INCENTIVES                                     20.46519
............. .-.-....---.-.-.-.....-.--  -.-.  ..--..--.-  ..--  .--...--------...-.--.-.-.....-----  -.  -.-.-------.  .-----------...-----.....--.-.---.-.... 
NET SAVINGS TO SINDH                                 70.65828
._..................................................    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMBINED SAVINGS
fOR PUNJAB AND SIMDN                                 223.6110
==================================================================================



- 49 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
Proiect Implementation Assistance Consultants
Terms of Reference
DescriRtion of Assignment
1.        The Project Management cells (PMCs) of the Punjab and Sindh
Subprojects would engage local consulting firm(s), following IDA guidelines,
to provide professional and technical services to assist with detailed
planning and overall implementation and supervision of the project. The
consultants would be required to assist in the following main areas:
tubewell-to-tubewell surveys to encourage farmrers to install PTWs; day to day
monitoring of physical and financial key indicators through a Management
Information System (MIS); preparation of overall project work plans; provision
of advice and assistance to farmers on TW technology and TW water management
and other matters related to installation of PTWs; construction supervision
and quality control of watercourse civil works; provision of implementation
assistance to PMCs in disbursement of project incentives, preparation of
progress reports, and withdrawal applications; and preparation of Terms of
Reference for feasibility studies for future SCARP Transition Program. While
the consultants would report to the Project Directors (PDs) of their
respective PMCs, they would work in close cooperation with other implementing
agencies. The consultants' team leaders would be stationed at Lahore and
Hyderabad, while the remaining professional staff would be deployed in the
subproject areas, as necessary.
Comnosition of the Consultants' Teams
2.        The consultants would provide some 360 man-months of services over
six years in the Punjab subproject and 288 man-months over he same period in
the Sindh subproject. Each team would include a project manager, a hydro-
geologist, an electrical engineer, an agricultural engineer, an irrigation
agronomist, a sociologists, technical assistants and support staff.
ScoRe of Work
3.        The consultants would perform the following services:
(A) Tubewell-to-Tubewell Surveys
(1) The consultants' multi-disciplinary teams together with
representatives of PIUs, ADBP, DGOFWM, and WAPDA would survey the
command areas of all STWs to be transitioned, to identify, and
assist farmers who wish to install PTWs. Since farmers are
generally conservative by nature and unlikely to make rapid
decisions for making investments in PTWs, it is foreseen that the
consultants would need to make several visits to the chaks/dehs
over a period of time to allow the farmers' final responses to



- 50 -
- 50                      ~~~~~~ANNEX 3
Page 2
develop and to encourage alliances to be established to serve future
group operations of jointly owned PTWs. During the first visits to
any area, the consultants would aim at no more than informing the
farmers of the Government's intention to close the STWs according to
a schedule that would be announced one crop season before the
closure date. The consultants would also inform the farmers about
the incentives offered under the project, including the provision of
a cash incentive averaging Rs 16,000 towards cost of the PTWs,
facilitated credit availability, remission of the double water
charges levied for STWs, rebate on canal water charges, provision of
electrical connections to PTWs at cost, and lining of watercourses.
As part of the TW-to-TW surveys the consultants would collect and
record data within a computerized database system, on the "present
situation" and the expected "future situation" following transition
in each chak/deh in the project area.
2.   Present situation survey:  This part of the survey would collect
data on:
(i)  the present yield/drawdown relationship of STWs (based on data
provided by the PIDs), condition of mechanical and electrical
equipment and their suitability for transfer to WUAs or farmer
sub-groups;
(ii) the quality/chemistry of STWs water;
(iii) the existing PTWs in the area, including location on chak/deh
maps, well discharges/specific capacity, water level, water
quality/chemistry, well type, pump and motor type, owner's
name, source of financing for the TW, CCA, surface supplies,
cropping pattern and intensity, and information on water
selling, if applicable;
(iv) chak/deh specific hydrogeology, including depth to water table
and well performance to provide recommendations on types of
tubewell designs appropriate for a range of discharges and
their costs; and
(v)  the electrical network and grid stations supplying the area,
including maps of the spur lines, lengths of lines, sizes of
conductors, capacities of transformers, existing loading
factors and present and future capacities (after closure of
STWs) for providing connections to PTWs in the area.
(3) Future situation surveys: The future situation surveys would be the
basis for detailed implementation plans and should include data on
responses of all farmers in the chaksfdehs regarding their decision
to install new PTWs. This data would inter alia include: farmers'
names, proposed location of PTWs, type and capacity of the PTWs, in
the case of electric PTWs, the location of existing lines and
estimated cost of connection, area to be served by the PTWs
(including that to be irrigated by water selling, if intended),



- 51 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 3
expected source of financing for the PTWs (if the farmer intends to
borrow from ADBP or another bank, it should be ascertained whether
or not the farmer already has an Agricultural Pass Book (APB)). The
"future situation" data should include maps of chaks/dehs. During
the survey the consultants would identify and encourage WUAs or
farmer sub-groups who may be interested in taking over STWs in good
condition, or installing jointly owned PTWs. Watercourses of such
farmers would be earmarked for receiving priority for lining.
(B) Preparation of work plans: Based on the findings of the TW-to-TW surveys
the consultants would prepare annual implementation plans for the project
in close cooperation with all implementing agencies. The work plans
would specify the targets for all project components, including (i)
closure schedule of STWs; (ii) expected schedule for installation of
PTWs, including number of diesel and electric PTWs, replacement PTWs, and
STWs bore holes converted to PTWs, and the amount of incentive expected
to be disbursed; (iii) number of watercourse to be improved where farmers
intend to install jointly owned PTWs indicating the number of such PTWs;
(iv) number of ABPs required to be issued according to chak/dehs; (v)
number of farmers who are likely to borrow from ADBP for PTWs
installation, by chak/deh; and (vi) the number of STWs to be surveyed for
project implementation during the following year.
(C) Provision of assistance to farmers: The consultants would assist the
staff of PMCs/PIUs, DGOFWM, and DGAER in providing assistance to farmers
in:
-    selecting appropriate TW technology and equipment suited to the
local conditions;
-    advising on appropriate techniques for optimum utilization of PTWs
water, and for inter-farm distribution of PTWs water to facilitate
water selling;
-    obtaining electric connections from WAPDA by helping them with
completion of various formalities;
-    securing APBs by maintaining close liaison with the Dlstrict
Administration offices; and
-    obtaining loans for PTWs from ADBP.
(D)  Supervision of watercourse imRrovement civil works:  The consultants
would be responsible for:
-    reviewing whether the watercourses selected for lining meet the
priority criteria agreed for the project;
-    reviewing plans/designs for civil works to assure compliance with
agreed criteria and standards;



- 52 -                               ANNEX 3
Page 4
spot checking of pucca structures during installation, and after
completion, to certify eligibility for IDA financing;
assisting DGOFWM Punjab in verification of quantities and quality of
materials procured and civil works completed;
notifying DGOFWM Punjab on compliance or non-compliance of completed
works with the agreed standards and criteria;
-    assisting the PMC Punjab in preparation of withdrawal applications;
and
-    recording progress of work for the MIS and for reporting purposes.
The consultants would spot check a minimum of 10% of all watercourses
renovated to assure that structures meet the agreed criteria and
standards. Following completion of civil works, the consultants would
check all renovated watercourses to verify quantity and quality of Rucca
facilities and quality of katcha sections. In addition, they would check
50% of the demonstration plots/centers. Deficiencies would be reported
to the DGOFWM within 45 days of the issuance of certificate of completion
by the DGOFWM.
(E) PreRaration of terms of reference for future SCARP transition program:
The consultants would prepare terms of reference for feasibility studies
for future SCARP Transition projects in Punjab and Sindh. The terms of
reference should include review of reconnaissance surveys carried out
during the preparation of SSTP to prioritize the remaining SCARPs for
transition. In view of the large number of STWs that remain to be
transitioned in the future, the terms of reference should include
requirement for developing a program or sector approach for future
transition projects.
(F) Provision-of implementation assistance to PMCs: The consultants would
provide assistance to the PMCs in all aspects of project implementation.
In addition to the above mentioned areas, the consultants would assist
the PMCs in:
-    reviewing and prioritizing farmers applications for project
incentives (including the provision of a cash incentive, averaging
Rs 16,000, and lining of watercourses) according to the agreed
criteria;
-    disbursing the project incentives according to the agreed procedures
and maintaining appropriate accounts;
-    maintaining overall project accounts, and preparing withdrawal
applications; and
preparing periodic progress repo.ts, briefing reports for IDA
supervision missions, and the project completion report.



- 53 -ANE4
Page I
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
Punjab and Sindh Provinces
Consultancv Services for 1ivdroeeolotical Studies
Terms of Reference
1.01        Consultants will be required to conduct hydrogeological studies
and propose action plans to ensure long-term sustainability of groundwater
extraction and utilization in the project area. The consultants will also
assist the implementing agencies to determine appropriate private tubewell
(PTW) training needs of mid-level managers, prepare suitable training
materials and in providing the training. During project implementation, the
consultants will monitor physical parameters, including the hydrogeological
regime and groundwater quality in the project area and propose appropriate
remedial measures to halt any adverse effects. For the purpose of these
studies, the consultants' team will comprise inter alia: (a) senior project
hydrogeologist/environmentalist; (b) project groundwater modeler. Details of
the study will be carried out as follows:
Monitoring and Evaluation of Physical Parameters
1.02        During the project span, the monitoring of physical hydrologic
parameters will be carried out and monitored. The activities will include:
(a)   development and implementation of an effective monitoring program
to evaluate hydrologic parameters such as surface water
utilization, groundwater levels; groundwater extraction and use;
groundwater quality, especially of the shallow aquifer; aquifer
performance; soil salinity; canal and watercourse flow; and the
growth of project PTW numbers. Allowance of up to 300 project
observation piezometer installation for the Punjab slbproject and
50 for the Sindh subproject have been made in the project areas to
be operated with the existing WAPDA's SCARP Monitoring
Organization (SMO) observation network. The data will be reviewed
on a regular basis to study the short and long-term behavior of
the aquifer and irrigation water deliveries. Satellite infrared
and other imagery would be used before and after project
implementation to identify areas of shallow water table, PTW
development, and cropping intensities.
(b)   Quarterly and annual evaluation and reporting on project's impact.
Topics to be discussed include aquifer response to transition;
groundwater quality, variation in agricultural production,
variation in tubewell yield, groundwater level fluctuations, and
surface hydrology consideration so that appropriate changes to
project design and implementation may occur and for feedback in
other SCARP transition areas. On project completion, WAPDA's SMO
would carry out the biannual monitoring of the physical parameters
as part of their regulatory nationwide monitoring program.



-54 -                                ANNEX 4
Page 2
Studies on Groundwater Conditions and Movement
1.03        The consultants will carry out detailed hydrogeological studies,
with respect to the fresh and saline groundwater conditions in the shallow and
deep aquifers underlying the project area to determine: (a) the most cost
effective means of preventing possible intrusion of saline groundwater (SGW)
into the adjoitning fresh groundwater (FGW) areas; (b) review various
alternatives for preventing water table build up in the agricultural land
overlying SGW areas and arrive at a cost effective solution; (c) review
methods of safely disposing off saline effluent based on an environmental
assessment; (d) determine the suitability of the shallow aquifer in the SGW
areas for use by private tubewells (PTWs); and (e) for the Punjab subproject,
carry out detailed surveys of existing surface drainage infrastructure and
drainage requirements to determine the most optimum method of disposal of
effluent from SGW SCARP tubewells. Appropriate satellite remote sensing
techniques should also be used to augment time-series data to determine
waterlogged areas and intensity of PTW development in the project area.
1.04        Soil Fertility.  The consultants would investigate the impact of
marginal quality water on soil fertility. Practical guidelines (including
need for surface drains), should be drawn up on the safe use of blended or
marginal quality water to maximize crop production and minimize the harmful
build up of chemicals and degradation of soil structure and fertility.
1.05        Development of a mathematical model.  A mathematical finite
element hydrogeological model would be developed to simulate salt and water
movement for the project area to initially assist the consultants to determine
SGW pumpage required for designing effluent disposal drainage systems to
prevent saline intrusion into FGW areas. The model should be field tested.
During and on project completion, the model would be used to monitor and
analyze changes in the groundwater conditions throughout the project span and
for long-term monitoring after project completion. It will be used as a
predictive tool to simulate changes to the hydrogeological regime under
various groundwater withdrawal and canal recharge scenarios. The model would
assist in studying the performance of tubewells in the marginal/highly saline
zone for assessing the mode for future operations. It would also be used as a
basis of designing models for other SCARP Transition projects. The consultant
would be required to develop and commission the mathematical model within
WAPDA who has some of the computer facilities to carry out such work. The
studies on monitoring and evaluation of the hydrogeological and hydrological
parameters will provide the input data for the model together with data from
TW-to-TW surveys (carried out by the PIA consultants) and routinely collected
government information. The quality of the input data will be reviewed and
confirmed by the computer modelling consultant.
1.06        Chemistry of shallow groundwater.  The study would include, inter
alia, analyses of electrical conductivity, sodium absorption ratio and
residual sodium carbonate in the specified reclamation and fringe areas. The
study would asses the groundwater quality of the FGW areas and provide the
data to the PIA consultants for suitable design of PTWs and to advise farmers
on appropriate cultural practices according to the groundwater quality
available. The study would also assess the areas within the SGW areas in



55                                 ANNEX 4
Page 3
which the installation of PTWs can take place without detrimental effect to
the crop or aquifer. In these areas, PTW locations, tubewell depths, yield,
and utilization factors, groundwater levels, irrigation practices, and
cropping intensities and patterns will be recorded. The consultants should
make recommendations for locations of suitable PTWs in these areas after
studying the potential for the build up of harmful chemicals in the soil.
Appropriate cultural practices should also be recommended where marginal water
quality would be expected to be utilized by PTWs. For the Punjab subproiect,
a comprehensive hydro-chemical study of the shallow aquifer in the SGW areas
(Shahkot, Sangla Hill, Beranwala and Jaranwala reclamation areas) will be
carried out to assess the suitability of conversion of the STWs to PTWs.
Allowance has been made for up to 100 observation piezometers to be installed
to depth of 120 ft in these areas. For the Sindh subgroject, a comprehensive
hydrochemical study of the shallow aquifer around the periphery of the project
is required to evaluate the location of usable and highly saline groundwater.
The study area should incorporate all land from the project's western boundary
to the Rohri Canal. The presence of highly saline groundwater adjoining the
project area needs to be identified so that possible saline water intrusion
may be avoided by the appropriate location of project PTWs. The study should
include the on-site analysis of electrical conductivity of shallow
groundwater. Those water samples exceeding 1,500 micromhos/cm should be
forwarded to a laboratory for inorganic chemical analysis. Allowances have
been made for the construction of 50 observation piezometers to be installed
to depths of 150 feet where PTWs are absent. A comprehensive hydrochemical
report should be submitted to the Project Management Organization (PMO) by
December 1991 along with details of observation of piezometers and PTW
location, depth, yield, water level and utilization factor.
1.07        Groundwater drainage areas.  For the Punjab subproject, a detailed
study will be carried out to assess the drainage requirements in the highly
saline groundwater area, consider alternative solutions and prepare suitable
least cost plans to prevent waterlogging and saline intrusion. Engineering
surveys of existing drainage systems, including cross section and longitudinal
surveys of existing drainage systems up to the drainage outfall, will be
carried out to sufficient detail and suitable designs and construction plans
prepared for effective effluent disposal. Where required appropriate
structures, such as bridges, drops structures etc., should also be designed.
Under the study, the present system of drainage wells as well as drain
construction, grading, operation and maintenance requirements will be
evaluated. The groundwater model will be used to simulate pumpage of drainage
wells (or other recommended methods) at various discharges to achieve their
optimal operational criteria for waterlogging prevention and saline intrusion
into FGW areas.
1.08        For the Sindh subproject, a study will be carried out to assess
the SCARP tubewell dewatering requirements in the saline area. Under the
study, the present performance of the STWs will be monitored and the number of
closed STWs requiring recommissioning should be determined. The groundwater
model will be used to evaluate the performance of the drainage STWs to achieve
their optimal operational criteria for waterlogging prevention and
interception of the poor quality water. If required, safe disposal of
drainage effluent by surface drainage systems should be considered.



- 56 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 4
Environmental Assessment
1.09        An environmental assessment should be carried out to determine the
environmental impact of: (a) saline groundwater effluent disposal and; (b) the
potential for build up of harmful chemicals in the soil caused by the use of
marginal quality water for irrigation. Appropriate measures to minimize any
harmful effects should be recommended. The consultants are advised to liaise
closely with the consultants carrying out the sectoral environmental
assessment of the national drainage program in Pakistan which may also address
similar environmental issues. The consultants should endeavor to establish a
linkage between the environmental assessment of this project and the above
sectoral environmental assessment. The environmental assessment should be
prepared consistent with the procedures of the Government of Pakistan and the
World Bank Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A, "Environmental Assessment".
Performance of STWs in Saline Groundwater Areas
1.10        The consultants would: (i) identify the causes of reduced
performance of STWs and determine cost effective methods of rehabilitating
STWs; (ii) make an assessment of STWs of varying age and construction quality,
and develop an understanding of the ageing process and evolve quantitative
estimation of the degradation of performance of different vital components
with time; and (iii) investigate the critical institutional factors necessary
for effective operation and maintenance of STWs and evolve guidelines for an
appropriate institutional framework and a checklist of activities.
Training Mid-Level Managers on Tubewell Technology
1.11        Deficiencies in installation and equipment of small private
tubewells result in reduced efficiency and shorter life. Potential for
improvement exists under the project in the form of expert advice to farmers.
During project initiation, the consultants will review the training needs of
mid-level managers advising farmers and make early recommendations:
-     to improve drilling and construction of the PTWs by undertaking
quality control studies on locally available tubewell construction
material and evaluate the drilling ability and equipment of
private and public drillers;
-     carry out performance tests on locally made tubewell pumps and
motors, demonstrate the results to the farmers on designated trial
areas and prepare a report on the quality of materials used,
performance rating, costs, etc;
-     prepare a simple guidance book in Urdu (a few also in English)
with appropriate figures for the farmers setting out the
following;
-     effects of selection of pumps, pipes and motors, their
installation and capital and operating costs;



- 57 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 5
-     appropriate tubewell design and where construction and operation
costs of the traditional coil strainer tubewell can be minimized;
-     detail the locally available construction material including
costs, expected life, efficiency, etc;
-     review the construction capability, experience, and costs of the
private and public drillers;
-     outline the costs of diesel and electric motors including details
of running costs, tariffs and connection charges; and
-     a simple hydrogeological description of the area outlining current
water quality and water level variations and desirable tubewell
spacing.
Consultation with-International Waterlogging and Salinity Research Institute
1.12        Some of the components of the study have relevance in other SCARP
projects in Pakistan. Before commencing the studies mentioned in paras 1.04,
1.05 and 1.10, the consultants should consult and liaise with the
International Waterlogging and Salinity Research Institute (IWASARI) in Lahore
so that some of the study results could be applied in other SCARPs. A separate
report should be prepared for each of these components.



- 58 -                             ANNEX
Page I
PAKIS
SECOND SCAR? TRANSITION PROJECT
Pro1ect Imoact Evaluation Studv
Terms of Reference
Description of Assignment
1.        The Project Management Cells (PMCs) of the Punjab and Sindh
subprojects would engage local consultants or independent organization(s),
following IDA guidelines, to provide professional and technical services to
carry out a project impact evaluation study (PIES). Limited input from
expatriate specialists would be expected to be provided. The main objective
of the PIES would be to assess the impact of transition of tubewell ownership
from the public sector to the private sector on: agricultural production;
small farmers; effect on groundwater table and long-term sustainability of use
of FGW in the project area; reduction in budgetary burden of O&M expenditures;
appropriateness of the incentives package provided under the project;
effectiveness of credit provided to farmers; and lessons learned for improved
design of future SCARP transition projects.
Composition of the Consultants
2.        The consultants would provide about 57 man-months over a period of
six years in the Punjab subproject and 55 man-months in the Sindh subproject.
The team of consultants will include, inter alia, a socioeconomist (Team
Leader), agricultural economist, irrigation agronomist, hydrogeologist,
computer operator and field enumerators.
Scope of Work
3.        The consultants would be required to make use of the MIS systems of
the PIA consultants and PMC (physical and financial key indicators), and
hydrogeological consultants (hydrogeological parameters) and augment the
information obtained with field observations and studies to monitor and assess
the socioeconomic impact of the project on the beneficiaries. The consultants
will be required to develop the methodology that will be used to monitor,
measure, and evaluate the type of changes that are taking place on farmers'
economic activity as a result of transition. Specifically, the consultants
would monitor and evaluate:
(a) changes in the cropping pattern and the probable shift towards
higher valued crops, cropping intensities and crop yields resulting
from project activities;
(b)  the role and effectiveness of WUAs and faimer groups on joint
ownership of PTWs/STWs and on-farm water management;



- 59 -                              &E  5
Page 2
(c) availability of groundwater, especially to small farmers;
(d) the adequacy and timeliness of incentive package and agricultural
credit tubewell installation;
(e) changes in the use of improved agricultural inputs;
(f) the role and effectiveness of agricultural extension in the project
area, and the impact on net farm income and its distribution,
especially benefits accruing to small farmers;
(g) the economic and financial performance of farmers (tubewell owners
and non tubewell owners), in the project area; and
(h) maintenance of safe groundwater levels, and sustainability of use of
FGW in project area.
4.        The Team Leader will be responsible for the overall design,
development, testing, administration and evaluation of collected data for
the study. Specifically, the team leader, with the assistance of other PIES
team members will:
(a) develop and implement a computerized database system for managing
all data gathered for the impact evaluation studies;
(b) develop the methodology that will be used to monitor, measure, and
evaluate the type of changes that are taking place on farmers'
economic activity as a result of transition;
(c) design the questionnaires that will be used to establish the base
line data which will document the physical, social, institutional
and economic parameters that will describe the project area;
(d) test the prepared questionnaires on a given sample of farmers;
(e) prepare a schedule and GANTT charts (bar charts presenting sequence
of tasks in relation to the implementation calendar) establishing
bench mark dates for the start, review and completion of each
activity, indicating the document responsibility of each team
member;
(f) develop the format for the collection, storage and acquisition of
data obtained from the field;
(g) identify institutional constraints such as extension services,
credit availability (especially to small farmers), agricultural
production inputs as soon as project implementation starts and make
recommendations for alleviating such constraints; and
(h) prepare outlines for periodic and final evaluation of the impact of
transition on farmers in the project area.



- 60 -                              AEX 5
Page 3
5.        The following reports will be prepared by the PIES consultants for
distribution to GOP, GOPunjab, GOSindh and the Bank: (a) bi-annual reports by
cropping season; (b) annual summary reports; and 'c) an overall report at
project completion. All reports should contain executive summaries.



PAKISIAP
SECO0 SCII? TRlSIltliOI PIOJICT
TOTAL POJEICT SMUT ACCOSTs
..,................................................................................. o@   s@*w   
Rs '100                             Ua* 1000
....  ....._._....._.  ...____........._.____................  -----------------------
Local      fotetig     total        Local       foreip     total
I...                                              - ---       .... -                     -     -      --
PRliAll  MILL IISTWLLITIOI             174,046.7  413,121.1   567,110.4    1,735.5   16,317.7   26,123.1
UAfCOhRSE IIPlOtaiE                     186,109.2   11,594.1   200,694.4    6,271.1         646.6    6,919.1
PRlJECT IhEEIoTATI                      32,191.0         1.0    32,190.0    1,430.6           0.0    1,430.6
TDREO0  ... A  Ifm   SSPS               26,103.1    6,503.6    32,606.6    1,160.1          269.0    1,449.2
InIC  EILIU TIIH                         6,361.0    1,126.9       7,513.9       263.9        50.1      333.9
PlRoIcT cuAlR mi  CILL                  11,503.1         O.0    11,903.1        795.1         0.0       795.1
tUiliI                                   1,004.9         0.0      1,004.5        44.6         0.0        44.6
EIInElR                                  6,101.9    2,902.5       9,310.8       264.6       129.0      413.9
MICLIS                                   9,626.4         0.0      9,626.4       421.6         0.0       421.6
1EQUIP  "VEICLES                              0.0        0.0          9.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
?RILJAIE Ul El0_  _       _ _   __9,! 1.3  43S,t4I.1   66,620.5   203,4.1   19,504.4   39,938.5
mISc coh                                 6,630.1       936.4      9,561.1       363.6        41.        425.2
PRICE COhI                             164,016.7  160,131.1   324,149.8    4,119.3    3,916.6    6,061.1
HOJ OT COST                            632,Ul.2   600,516.6 1,232,937.4   24,931.0   23,524.6   46,461.8
El.  InICLIS                            16,034.3    2,502.8    11,931.2         712.6       125.0      641.7
El0



PAKISTAN
PMA,: SEIu I SCW  TRASITION PROJECT
SUART ACINITS COST  UM
(R  '000)                                    urn '000)
I Total                                     Z Total
2 Farign  &                                I Fou     Daisn 
Local   Foreign   Total    Exchan     Costs   Local  Forein  Total  Excbm          Cnts
II INESTW COS
A. PRIVATE TI U INSTALLATIMN                        138979.1 33O155.5  469.033,6          70     63  6172.4 14673.6 209845.9          70     63
B. CMIL VWlS
1. VATERCOE IIPRO      I                         119.965,5  141594,1  134I559.6        11     18  5,331.9   64.6  5,99.4           11     1B
2. FARUERS CONTRIBUTION
CASH CONTRIDUTION                               17,478.8        -    17M479.9        -      2    776.8         -   776.9         -     2
DONATO LAIM                                     481656.0        -   48,656.0         -      7  2,162.5         - 2d162*5         -      7
Sub-Total FAME3RS CWNRIBUT1ION                    661134.8        -   66d134,8          -      9  29939,3        - 2,939.3          -      9
------ ---------------              - -        
Sub-Total CIVIL VIEIDS                              1896100,2 14,594.1  200.494.4         7      27  8,271.1   648.6 89919.7           7     27
C. FOTJECT ItlPU1NTATION                             189104.5        -   189104.5         -       2    804.6        -   904.6         -       2
D. HYDRUGEOLOOICAL I FUTURE SARP TRANSITION STUDIES   13,720.3  3.t53.4   17,313.7       21       2    609.8   159.7   769.5         21       2
E. IIPACT EVMYALION                                   3,410.9    716.1    4,127.0         17      1    151.6    31.8   183.4          17      1
F. PROJECT rNAIEHENT CELL                            14.274&3         -   149274,3         -      2    634.4        -   634*4          -      2
G. TRAINING                                             828.5        -       829.5        -       0      36.9       -    36.8         -       0
H. EWIPfENT                                           4,750.4  2.070,6    6t821.1         30      1    211.1    92.0   303.2          30      1
I. VEHICLES                                           7079.4         -    7m,.4           -       1    346.         -   346.6         -       I
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    387,866.6 351t129#8  739B,6.4        49    100 17,239,5 15605.8 32,94.3         49    100
Phusical Contingencies                                 5,310.6    564.3    5,874.9         10      1    236.0    25.1   261.1         10       1
Priee Continiencies                                  137,682.8 12BI619.6  266,302.4       48      36  39459.6 3 W.2 6h642.7           48      20
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     530,860.1 480.313,6 1011.173.7      48    137 20,933.1 18.815.0 39,748.1        47    121
I001-=                                  =             3=         3                                =3SS= __  =       U3
Obril 30w: 199  16:04'  



2JM SE= SWrMMFW
Su_art Acounts by Year
Totals Includira Comst'mncsin                               Totals Inludird Cmtlrnimwi
Its '@06)                                                  (E  IM)
M2    923         93194    94/       96         M7    Total      91/2   92m       4        949   1    ISM    Itdl
1. mallEll                                                                                      m      M                          -I 
A. MVATE INIL  BIUSTM                              51,635.3 36175.0 124,717.0 131,343*5 135961142 10943430  62375.2 2t239.4 3602.*6 49M92.7 5090.5 5,197*3 4,012.6 251.1
3. .II  U
It EIUtUSE t_NBUT                               1749.3  32,451.5 342M*3 37Z003.3 39,174.5 20735.6  181*696.5   754.3 1356.7 1.mo 1,429.7 1463.9  760.9 7*165
2. FIllES CUM" TUIm
CmS8 ClIIIUIIU01                              1,945*4  4,296.0  4,615.4  4,32.4  5,135.9  2,741.5   23,683.7    34.3  179.6  184.8  1Ul   1944  100.9  932.
Nato LAMB                                     5415.4 I1195.99 12,48.0 13,619.9 14436.1  7651.*1   65928.4   234.6  500.0  514.3  525.3  541.3  2.8 2,596.3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__ ___ __ _ _ _ ____               _                                                            a
Sub-Total FA1M  9NIUI                            7,360.3  16,254.9 17,463.5 19,511.3 196V2.0 10399.6   1U62.1   319.9  679.6  6f.1  714.7  735.7  381.6 3952.7              °
-Total CIVIL INM                                   24769.1  49,706.4 5W2336.7 55,514.6 583796.4 31.135.2  271.308.6 1,073.2 2,036.2 2091 2,143.4 2W2046 19142.6 10M671
C. FRJm IEW ATT                                     2,656.4  5,337.5  4,837.7  5,128.0  5,291.7  3,600.5   26,351.9   115.1  223.1  1937  198.0  19.4  132.1 3,060.4
*. 0IIGEIUGIC.L t fIlg  SCW  lUWITIO  1             5,477.5  3839.6  2,501.0  4.190.1  5,556.4  3,656.    25,221.3   2373  160.5  100.1  161.3  203*3  134.2 1,002*3
to DtT CIIITIOI                                     1,214.1    370.3  1,042*3    30806    955.9  1,689.9    5,531.2    52.6   15.5   41.7   1199   35.3   62.0   219.*6
F. NOlECt  1A _I  ML                                23809.8  39239.7  3,479.5  3,63833  3,909.6  4,144.2   21,270.3   121.7  135.4  139.3  142*4  146I6  152.1   937.5
B. 13611019                                           220*9    774.2       -         -        -        -       95.l     9.6   32.4      -       -      -      -    41.9
R. EWJIHET                                          6,552*3    897.7    173.0    132.9    192.3    4f7?l6    3475.6   283.9   37.5    al9    7.1    7.2   17.5   360.1
1. IEHIDB                                          9,094.4        -        -        -        -         -    9,094.4   394.0      -      -       -      -      -   394.0
toUl IIIESIIENIT COsTS                               1479.9 149,339*5 139137*5 200*956.1 213,313*6 154#047.1 101i1173.7  495269 624343 7v5716 7,755.1 798.3 5,653.1 31743.1
-= -wmp- -..- 2                     in2=ZU2  U 2vx*in8WZ  ZM332UXM z                      =M   m m                  3
tdal MECT lCOm                                       104479.9 149,339*5 131137.5 200356.1 213#313.6 154047.1 1,011,173.7 4,526.9 6,243.3 7571.6 7,55.1 7eM93 568.1 39t741.1
-         --  -u             z2       ZL   =           z=:        ---C= -2m         z= gu u            32 3rs _
bil 30, I    16104
LI.



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB: SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
Project Comnents bv Year
(RS '000)
Dase Costs                                 Total
91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97          Rs     (USS '000)
A. PRIVATE TUBEVELL INSTALLATION                     46,831.0 70,403.8 939798.4 939798.4 939798.4 709403.8   469,033.6  20,845.9
B. VATERCOURSE IMPROVEMENT                           269825,1 40,279n6 39r649*6 39,649.6 39t649#6  19P824.8   205,878.2   9,150.1
C. PROJECT INPLENENJATION ASSISTANCE                  4,990*4  39948.4  3.331.0  3,331.0  3t242.8  29081.5    20,925.2        930.0
D. NYDROGEMMGICAL I FUtIRE SCARP TRANSITION STUDIES    8.010.1  3,511.0  1,836.9  2,O40.1  39525.3  2,407.1    22,130.3       913.6
E. PRDJ£CT IMPACT EVALUATION                          29302.7    301.4    7M7.4    220.5    64.7   1.079.2        59335.8     237.1
F. PROJECT MDT CELL - INCR. STAFF                     30713.9  2,395.9  2,395.8  2,395.8  2,395.8  2,395.8    15,693.2        697.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   92,673.2 120,840*0 141,99.0 142,235.4 143,256.5 98192.2   738,996.4  32,844.3          0
Phtsical Contingencies                               19671.4    985.5    756.4    856.7    916.4    688.4        5,874.9     261.1
Price Contingencies                                 10,135.2 27,514.0  46592.1  579764.0 69,140.7 55.66.4   2669302.4   69U2.77
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   104,479.9 1494339#5 1894137.5 200,856.1 213,313.6 154,047.1  19011,173.7  39s7481
=____-  - = e=   ____--5- = ______                       = _____=S
Taxes                                               17,313.6  16,237.7 21166.2 229244.2 23t595.5 17M94*.2   118,502.3   4,678.4
Foreign Exchange                                    41,994.2 d53988.9 924621.6 97,078.6 102460.1  80770.2   480,313.6  18,815.O
April 30, 1M   16:04



PAKISTAN
SIMON: SECOND SCAR? TRANSIIION PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COST SUnkARY
(Rs '000)                                   (USS '000)
I Total                                    I total
2 Foreisri Base                           I Foreign  Base
Local   Foreidn  Total   Exchange  Costs   Local Foreign Total  Exnge  Costs
11r 'ESZT1flT. COSTS
A. Frl'tE TUIEV.TL IIISTALLATIOtI                      35d170.6  83,566.2 1189736.8        70      74  1,563.1 3,714.1 5,277.2        70      74
r. 'Y1 TCT IMtPEIIrTTATION                              14,095.5        -  14M085.5         -       9    626.0       -  626.0          -       9
C. ID.:n2EOLOGICAL Z FUTURE SCARW  TRANUSITION STUDIES    129382.9  24910.2  1S2M.9        19      10   550.3  129.3  679.7           19      10
r. Ifr'ACT EVALUATION                                   2,976.1    410.8  3$396.9          12       2    132.3   18.3  150.5          12       2
L. r!;J._T MRAOE I.tIT CELL                             3,628.8         -  3t628.8          -       2    161.3       -   161.3         _       2
F. TrA"111NS                                               176.4         -     176.4        -       0      7.8       -     7.8         -       0
Go. EX)I?11M T                                           1,657.5    832.2  2,489,7         33       2    73.7   37.0   110.7          33       2
11. '.tES                                                1.827,0         -   1,827.0         -       1    81.2       -   81.2          -       I
Total DASELTIIE COSTS                                       714904.7  87719.4 159,624.1        55      100 34195.0 3F998.6 7,094.4        55    100
Fh1skcal Continrercies                                    39320.1    372.1  3.692.2         10       2    147.6   16,5  164.1          10       2
rr ice rc.-ie.ncies                                      26,335.9  32p111.5  58,447.4       55      37   659.6  794.6 1,454.2          55      20
vtat PRCCT COSTS                                           101,560.7 120,202.9 221,763.6       54     139 4M002.9 4,709.8 8,712.7         54     123
A^ri' 'O, 1991  1620



PIAISTAN
SIMu: SECOND SCARP  usmON PROJECT
Suary Aecounts by Year
Totas Includini Continancis                            Totls Includi  CastiMmi.i
IRs '000)                                            (IU5  1000)
91s92   92/93   934   94/95   1596   969    Toal          91M   92/    994  94/95 1*96  *un  Totl
22,:3:2: :2::::: 3222   0233233  233333m 333333333333                               3  332    u    333
1. INmESlNT CIM
A. fI7ATE lUIBELL IJISAL.LATIM                   13,103.7 21tm.7 31.576.7 334380.4 35,091.9 27.956.9 162611.3   567.9  911.4 1264;1 12818.8 1315.0 1,05 5.0 WV,312.
3. P1OJCT l:ElIIATION                             2U445.8 46214.9 3,567.4 3,564.2 3778.1  39257.2 20,927.6   106.0  176.2  142.3  137.6  141,7  119.5  232.6
C. 1ITItLOGCM  I FUTE SW   RlANT1I0   STUDIES   49116.4 2,466.0 29217.7 4,703.3 4,979.7 4,234.5 22,717.5   178.4  103.1   83.3  161.4  106.7  155.4  393.9
D. UVACT EVALUATION                               1,166.1   370.3   397.9   390.9   447.0 1,907.3  4,57.6    50.5   15.5   15.9   15.1   16.8   66.3  10.1
E. POCTHI   EIT CL                                  637.6   940.3   902.3   956.? 1.014.3 1.075.2  5,427.2    27.6   35.1   36.1   36.9  3M.0   39.5  213.3
r. TRAIN=                                            61.7   170.3       -       -       -       -    232.0      2.7    7.1      -      -       -      -    9 
C. MOi[MfT                                        29396.5   224.4    86.5       -       -   459.2  3,166.7   103.9    9.4    3.5       -       -   16.9  133.5
R. ?.EIClES                                       ,4201.        -       -       -       -       -  2W201.7    15.4       -      -      -       -      -   95*4
Toal IWJESSTINT COSTS                               56129.6 30,085.9 38.749.0 42995.7 45,311.1 38492.4 221,763.6  1132.1 1.257?. 1,551.2 1W660.1 16".O 1412*6 9,712.7
:222222=3Z=  32=2223323m    2332333 323    2223.=M  aasc 322333= 32333233233  832322 8332322 2233333332332333
Total "amECT COS1                                    26.129.6 M0M15.9 3St?47.0 4295*7 45.311.1 38492*4 2217636  1.132.1 1,257*$ 14551.2 IUO6  1,6"90 1,412.6 312.7
Acril 30 19"1 1U20,
loje



su: KSE W   Im n Inmirr
FIOJt C eamts  i Teat
Totals Ineludinfi Cmtzml                                  MalS ImidiM  Cuibma
nm 92       3      /94   94/     nn       97   Ttl u     n 91M    92m     9          9m    MM   ?M   Ttabl
m            om                          m                        = _- - ----
A. FRVAR TWELL IIIt        IT                       13,103.7 21.7W. 3157.? M330M.4 359.9 27V.63. U411.3   57.3  91.1 11               .1 1MA 23l 14215.3 1135# 362
3.         ICTllJ D A5NT     ASSISTUI                3964.3  435.1  3,56.4 35U4*2 37731  372  22,516.4   17m.3  13.3  142.   13.A  1g.?  119*.   n6.7
C. HT1EMEICML  I    1  SCW Tit      ISllU0 13nF    5sM*9 24690.5  2W0.2  470.I3  479.7  4943,? 25.0.2   244.8  112*5   92.2   1.   167  12.2 W                    "l.
3. FrC         IImm IEw SIE                          1309.7   370.3   397.9   31.9   447.Q  137.3  51223.2    73.4   15.5   15.9   15i1   U1s    6.3   M.
E. F!Z ICT m  CLL - lID. STAE                        1,o2.3   810.3    02.8   956.9  1014.3  1,075*2  6,312.4    69.4   I.1    36.1   3l69   1l            3.5 2     .2
Total FUECT cum15                                     26,129.6 3015.? 38749.0 42,95.7 45P31.1 3,492.4   m .17A  21302.1 lt.eW   1tS1.2 1.60.1 to"*.  1412.63 b2.7
b#ill 3b 11M 16122
1~~~~~~I



- 68 -
*   1   1  *  v 1 n I~~~~~~31 
i "gdu E.d.g4 ! U 
B I   | __    Es. * _ U  
g~~ . a* *flr
'I ''''1 a.
a  -  j. iil
ii  'iI~ III !
U~.;" XsN    i. U



PAKISTAN
SItDH: SECDND SCARP TRASITION PROCT
finaaingr Plan b, Project Covonents
(USM '000)
IDA         ADDP      FAUERS (CASH)  Government        Total                    Lwcal
(Excl.  Duties I
!Aourit  Z uunt I           Aouat   I        ourit  Z   Amoun,t   Z   For. Exch. Taxes)   Taxes
A. rRIVATE TUBEUELL INSTALLATION                       1,787.9 28.1  432.7 6.8   1.838.8  28.9  29303.3 36.2  6,362.8  73.0   46476.2  1,008.2    878.4
R. OJCI tIPLBMEENTATIDO  ASSISTANCE                      762.2 8'.0       -    -         -    -    134.5 15.0   896.7  10.3           4.7    934.6      57.4
C. IIDROGEOLOGICAL I FUTUfE SCARP lRAIISITIOII STUDIES    850.9 85.9      -    -         -    -    139.1 14.1   990.0  11.4         205.2   672.9      112.0
D. PICT ,IPACT EVALUATZIOI                               1'9.3 81.4       -    -         -    -    38.7 18.6   208.0  2.4            22.5   164.3       21.2
E. PROJECT tuT CELL - IUMCr.. STAFF                      187.8 73.6       -   -          -     -     67.4 26.4    255.2   2.9         1.2   169.1       84.8
I                                                                     , _ _-                 _-  _-  _    _     _---- _      __                                           I
Total Di,hrB.e.et                                        3s758.2 43.1  432.7  5.0  1,838.8  21.1  2,683.0 30.8  8,712.7 100.0    4#709.8  24849.0  1,153.9
-                                                           ===--------===------------==----=:----------=_-----------------          --------
April 30, 1971 16:20



- 70 -
PARISTRUN
SAMOU  fi=R  TRANlSITION PRO  91
Egtimat:ed DisburseMent Schedull
(US$ M)
E=2
First
Second                0.41             0.41
First                 1.56             1.97
Second                1.56             3.53
First                 1.73             5.26
Second                1.74             7.00
First                 2.25             9.25
Second                2.25            11.50
First                 2.10            13.60
Second                2.00            15.60
7
First                 2.00            17.60
Second                2.00            19.60
First                 0.40            20.00



- 71 -                           MEX 9
MQISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
Princigal Financial and Economic Prices Used in Project Analysis
Financial            Economic
1991      1291       12        2000
Crogs (Rs/kg)
Wheat                                      2.44      4.44       3.95       4.17
Paddy - basmati                            3.59      3.53       3.04       3.00
- IRRI 6                            1.78       2.30      1.90       1.89
Sugarcane                                  0.35      0.50       0.36      0.32
Seed cotton                                5.44      9.24       8.87       8.28
Pulses                                     6.75      6.66       6.66       6.66
Oilseeds - rape and mustard                5.19      6.00       6.00       6.00
Fodder - rabi                              0.19      0.17       0.17      0.17
- kharif                           4.15       2.70      2.63       2.88
Sorghum                                    3.30      2.97       2.97       2.97
Orchard - citrus                           2.00       1.80      1.80       1.80
Seeds/seedlings (Rs per kg/plant)
Wheat                                      2.94       5.33      4.74       5.00
Paddy - basmati                            4.50      4.41       3.80       3.76
- IRRI 6                            2.70       2.43      2.43       2.43
Sugarcane                                  0.39      0.50       0.36      0.32
Seed cotton                                5.98      5.38       5.38       5.38
Pulses                                     7.40      6.66       6.66       6.66
Oilseeds - rape and mustard                6.49       5.84      5.84       5.84
Fodder - rabi                             16.50     14.85      14.85      14.85
- kharif                           5.00       3.24      3.16       3.46
Sorghum                                    4.12      3.71       3.71       3.71
Orchard - seedlings - citrus               5.00     30.00      30.00      30.00
FertilizeXr (Rs per kg)
Nitrogen (N)                               6.44      9.98      12.36      12.03
Phosphorous (P,0,f)                        6.72      7.88      10.43      11.17
Potassium (K)                              4.20      6.44       6.61       6.64
Other Inguts (Rs per unit)
Tractor work (hr)                         74.0       77.7      77.7       77.7
Labor hired (hr)                          30.0      27.0       27.0       27.0
Bullock work (pair day)                   45.0      40.5       40.5       40.5
AMIXOTt



PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
PUNJAB SUBPROJECT: DISTRIBUTION OF FARMS
Size of Farm                     Present '         Future without ProlectI3  Future with Project1' Future without Prolect
Year 62                   Year 6                   Year 20
No.       Area           No.        Area            No.       Area           No.          Area
Small (below 5 ac/2 ha)
Farms with PTVs              3,776      20,866        6,446       35,621       18,000       99,468        6,446       35,621
Farms buying water           7,424a    41,025         7,424a      41,025       42,912      237,132       21,473      118,660
Farms with canal water    66,821    369,253          64,151      354,498       17,109/2    94,544        50,102      276,863
Sub-total              78.021    431.144            2      4 14          78.021      431.144        78,021     431.144
Laree (above 25 ac/10 ha)                                                                                                        -
Farms with PTUs              5,214    126,006         6,444      155,732        7,760      187,535        6,444      155,732    S
Farms buying water           1,943a    46,942         1,943'3     46,942       11,187      270,355        5,458      131,903
Farms with canal water    17,481    422,476          16,251      392,750        5,691'!    137,534       12,736      307,789
Sub-total              24.638    595.424       24,630      595.424       24.638      595.424       24.638      595.424
GRAND TOTAL                102.659  1.026.568       102.659   1.026.568       102.659   1,026.568       102.659   1.026.568
a   SCARP tubevells are still in operation.
L2 0l of non-tubevell owners for both small and large farms.
LI 30X of non-tubewell owners for both small and large farms.
L4 70X of non-tubewell owners for small farms and 40X for large farms.
/5 Some SCARP tubevells are still in operation.
L6 These farmers would benefit from the watercourse improvement.
R3UASFA~I.Ssr
PLOUWARA&M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
SINDH SUBPROJECT: DISTRIBUTION OF FARMS
Present /"    Future without Proiect   Future with Proiect  Future without Proiect
Year 6                 Year 6                 Year 20
Size of Farm                   No.      Area         No.        Area         No.       Area        No.          Area
Small (below 9 ac/3.6 ha)
Farms with PTWs                 37        333        367        3,303       1,100       9,900       1,137      10,233
Farms buying waterE              -          -           -           -          984      8,856           -            -
Farms with canal water       2,297    20,673       1,967       17,703         250       2,250       1,197      10,773
Sub-total               2.334    21.006       2.334       21.006       2.334      21.006      2.334       21.006
Large (above 74 ac/30 ha)
Farms with,PTUs                710    52.434         920       67.942       1,295      95,641      1,410      104.129
Farms buying water               -          -           -           -       1,215      89,731           -           -
Farms with canal water       3,211   237,146       3,001      221,638       1,411    104,208       2,511      185,451
Sub-total               3.921   289,580       3.921     289,580        3,921    289,580       3.921      289.580
GRAND TOTAL                  6.255   310.586       6.255      310.586       63255    31586         6,255      310.586
Ai SCARP tubewells are still in operation.
/2 In the present and future without categories, there are no farmers buying water.
SMOFARSST
0



PAR SI SA
PU14JIIB: SECOND SCARP IRANSITION PROJECT
TABtE   1  PUIIJAB: SAlUt FARN - BUYING WATER: 2 NA Fare Nodal
FINANCIAL BUOGUT
fin Rs)
fT
With Project
1       2         3        4        S        6         7     8 to 20
Rain Production
88S*II RICE IPADDYI                      3. 123.3  3.178 7  3.234 1 328S9.5  3.344.9  3.400.2  3.455. 6  3.511 0
WhEAT                                     4.265. 1 4.371 8  4.479.6  4.588 6  4.698.9  4.810 3  4.882.2  4.954 2
FODDER-lt                                11. 952.0 11.976 0 12. 000.0 12. 024.0 12. 048 0 12,072 1 12.096. 1 12. 120. 1
FODDER-RA                                 1,026. 0  1.037.9  1,049.9  1.061 8  1.073. 8  1.085.7  t,097.7  1. 109 6
SUGARCANE                                5.040 0  5. 121 0  5,202.0  5. 283.0  S.364 0  5,44S 0  5.S26.0  5.607.0
OlISEEDS                                    155 7    158 7    161 6    164.6   167 6    170 5    173 5    176 5
PUtSES (GRANt                               905 9    916.5    927. 1   937 7    948.3    958.9   969.5    980. 1
ORCHARDS ICITRUSI                         1,440.0  1. 463. 1  1.486 2  1t509. 3  1. 532. 3  I,SSS.4  1.578 5  1. 601. 6
Sub-lotaI Main Production                   27. 908.0 28,223.6 28.540.4 28,858.5 29. 177 7 29. 498.1 29. 779.1 30.060.0
Net Value Of Product ion                    27. 908.0 28. 223. 6 28,540.4 28.858.5 29. 177. 7 29, 498. 1 29. 779. 1 30. 060.0
Product ion Cost
Operating
Irouts
BASNATI SEED                          40.5      40.5     40.S     40 5     40 5     40.5      40 5     40 S
FERTILIZER-NIROGEN IN)               819.3    845.6    872.0    898.6   925.4    952.2    976.2  1.000.3
FERTIIIZER-PHOSPN1OROUS IP2051       391.4   407 1   422.9    438 8    454 7    470 8    485.3    499 8
FERIIlIlER-POIASSIU1  (RI             33.6    45.3       57.2     69.2    81 3      93.6    105.6    117 6
BUllOCR MORK                        1, 944.0  1. 966.0  1.987.9  2.009.9  2. 031.8  2. 053.8  2.070.0  2.086 2
IRACTOR  OM                          548.3   550. 1   551.9    553.7   S55.4    557.2    557.2   557 2
PESIICIDE                            432.0    478.6    525.9    573.9    622.6    672.0    720.0    768 0
CANAt WATER CHARGES                  201.4    201.8    202.2    202.6   203. 1   203.5    203.S    203.5
Slt MATER CHARGES                    201.4    168.2    134.8    101.3      67.7     33.9      -0.0     -0.0
IUSEAt SEEO                          270. 5    272. S    275. 2    277.5    279.9   282. 2    282. 2    282. 2
FODDER-IN SEED                        33.3    33. 3      33.3     33.3    33. 3     33.3     33. 3     33.3
FODDER-fA SEED                        S6. 1    56. I    56. 1     56. 1    56. 1    56. t    Sb. I    56. I
SUGAR SEED                          1,014.0  1,014.0  1.014.0  1,014.0  1.014.0  1.014.0  1.014.0  1.014.0
OILSEEDS SEED                           1.3      1 3      1. 3     1. 3     1 3       1 3      1. 3     1. 3
PULSES SEED                           61.9      61.9     61.9     61.9     61.9     61.9     61.9      61.9
ORCHARD SEED                           4.0       4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0       4.0
Stb-Total Inputs                      6,052.9  6 146.5  6.241.1  6 336.6  6,433.0  6,530.3  6 611.2  6,725.9
Sub-total Operating                      6.0S2.9  6.146.S  6,241.1 6.336.6  6,433.0  6.S30.3  6,611.2  6,72S.9
Other Outflows
COSI Of BUYING PIN MATER                   268.0   268.0    268.0    268.0    268.0   268.0    268.0    268.0
OUIfLONS                                  6.320.9  6,414.5  6.509.1  6.604.6  6.701.0  6.798.3  6.879.2  6. 993.9
CASH FtOI BEFORE I INMACING                21. 587. 1 21. 809. 1 22.031.3 22.253.9 22.476.7 22. 699.8 22.899.9 23.066. 1
Sources Of Finance
Transfer From Previous Period            6.052.9  6,146.5  6.241.1  6.336 6 6,433.0  6.S30.3  6.611.2  6,725.9
Less Transfer To Next Period             6.146.5  6.241. 1 6.336.6  6.433.0  6.530.3  6,611.2  6.725.9  6.721.9
Su*b-TotaI Sources Of Finance                  -93.7   -94.6   -9S.S   -96.4   -97.3    -80.8  -114.7
NET FINANCING                                 -93.7   -94.6   -95.5   -96.4    -97.3    -80.8  -114.7



PAKISTAN
PUJNJAB: SECOND SCARP TRANSHtiON PROJECT
TABLE  2    PIJNJ8B: SMALt FARN - BJJYING WATER: 2 HA Fa.im Hodel
FINANCIAI BUDGEI
(in Rs)
F,
-- - - - -   -- -  - - - -  -    -- - - - - - - - -  - - -  - - - -   ..  . ....  ....  .  . ..............      .  I..,......... .. ..................................... 
Incremental
-------   ---  ~ ~~.........  ............... . .. . . ..  -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
I      2       3       4        5        6         7        8        9       10       It       12       13       14    15 to 20
Main Production
BASMAII RICE  IPADDYI                              -   41 5   83 1  124 6   166 2   207.7   249 2   290 8   290 8   290 8   290 8   290 8   290 8   290 8    290 8
NHFm I                                             -   87 4  176.0  265 8   356 8   449 0   5017   554 4   554.4   554 4   554 4   554 4   554 4   5544    5544
FODDERK"                                           -   82 7  165 4  248. 1   330 8   413.5   496 2   578 9   578 9   578 9   578 9   578 9   578 9   578 9    578 9
FODDER-RA                                          -    7.5   IS I   22.6    30.2    37.7    '  3    52 8    52.8    52.8    52 8    52 8    52 8    528                     52 8
SUGARCANE                                          -    594  118 8  178 2   237 6   297 0   3564   415 8   415.8   415 8   415 8   415 8   415 8   4158    4158
OILSEEDS                                           -    2.i    4 4    6 7         8 9     11 1    13 3      15.6    15.6       15 6     P5 6     15 6     15 6     156       15 6
PULSES IGRAN                                       -    6 4   12 7   19 1    25 5         31 8    38 2    44 5    44.5    44 S    44 5           44 5    445       44.5      44 S
ORCHARDS ICI'RUSI                                  -   16.9   33 8   50 7    67.7    84.6   101.5    118 4   118.4   118.4    118.4    118.4    118 4   118.4               1184                   1
..- -   - - - - - --.- - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - - ...... ...    . . .. ..   .. . . .   .. . . .
SiA-Total Main Production                              -  304 1  609.4  915.9 t.223 5 1.532 4 1. 801 82.071.2 2.071.2 2. 071.2 2.071 2 2.071 2 2.071 2 2.071 2  2.071.2
Not Value Of Production                                   J04 1  609 4  915.9 1.223.5 1.532.4 1.801 8 2, 071.2 2.071.? 2  071 2 2.071.2 2.071 2 2.071    2 2.071 2  2.071 2
ProdurI * n Cost
Operat ing
Inputs
FERlItilER-NITROGEN (NI                     -   21.9   43.9   66. 1    88.4    110.9   130.5   ISO I   150.  ISO I   150.1    150 I   ISO I   ISOI                      IS0
FERlItlZER-PNOSPHOROUS  (P205)              -   14.6   29 2   43.9    58 8    73.6    87 0   100 4   100.4   100 4   100 4   100 4   100 4   100 4                   100 4
fERIIlIZER-PO1ASSIUM  (Il                    -   I0.S   21 2   32 0    42.9    54.0    64.8    75.6    75 6    75 6    75 6    75 6    75 6    75 6                   75.6
EitLOCA Wm                                       22.0   43 9   65.9    87 8   109.8   126 0   142 2   142.2   1422   142 2   142 2   142 2   1422    142 2
TRACTOR WORN                                -     I.8    3.6    5.3        7. 1     8.9      8 9      S.9      8.9      89       8.9       8 9      8.9      89        8 9
PESIICIDE                                   -   46.6   93.9  141.9   190.6   240.0   288 0   336.0   336.0   336.0   336.0   336 0   336 0   336.0    336 0
CANAlt MIER CHARGES                          -     04    0.8    1. 3       1. 7     2. 1     2. 1     2. 1     2. 1     2. 1      2. 1     2 1      2 1      2.1       2 1
SIR MAtER CNARGES                             -18. 8  -37.8  -56.9   -76. 1   -95.5  -115. 1  -100.7   -86.3   -71 9    57.5   -43 1   -28 8   -14 4                   0.0
mNEAT SEED                                        2. 4    4.7    7.1       9. 4    11. 8    11. 8     II. 8    I1 18    11.     11 8 a    1.8 a   I1 88    118        11.8
Sub-total Ir4uts                                -  101. 3  203 5  306.6   410.6   515.5   604.0   726. 3   740.7   755 1   769 5   783.9   798.2   812.6    827 0
SA-Total Operating                                 -  101.3  203.5  306.6   410.6.  515.5   60' 0   726.3   740.7   755 1   769.5   783.9   798.2   812.6    827.0
Othtr Outflows
COST Of BUYING PIN WATER                      268.0  268.0  2k8. 0  268. 0   268.0   268.0   268.0   268.0   268.0   268 0   268.0   268.0   268.0   268.0    268 0
~~~~~. . . ...     . .....     ......     .. ..    .     .. .....    .......     ..... .     .... .     ....    ..    .. . .    .. . .    .. . .    .. . .    .. . .    ..... .
OUTfLOSS                                        268.0  369.3  471.5  574.6   678.6   783.5   872.0   994.3 1.008.7 1, 023. 1 1.037. 5 1.051. 9 1. 066.2 1.080 6  t.095 0
CASH ftOI BEFORE FINANCING                       -268.0  -65.2  137.9  341.3   545.0   748.9   929.9 1 076.Y  1.062.5 1.048. 1 1. 033.? 1.019.4 1.005.0   990 6    976 2



PAK IS lAW
PUNJAB: SECCTiD SCARP tRANSIT ION PRO.JFCT
tASLE   3    PUNJABS  SMALL FARM   PTW OWNER (0 5 CUSEC DIStLL. 2 HA farm Model
FINANCIAL BUJOGLI
lIn As)
with Project
2             3         4         5          6         7         8      9 to 10       II        12        13- 20
Rain Production
BASNATI RICE IPADOT)                           3.561 3  3.688 9  3.818.5  3.950 2  4.084 04.219 8  4.307 0  4.394 2  4. 394 2  4. 394 2  4.394 2  4.394 2
NI4EAF                                        4.684 8  4.873 4  5.065 7  5.261 6  5.4611I5.664 3  5.782 I  5.899 9S .899 9  5.899 9  5.899 9  5.899 9
FODDER-KH                                    12. 325 5 12. 596 612?.867 6 13. 138 7 13. 409 713. 680 8 13. 951 8 14 222 9 14. 22? 9 14. 222 9 14.22? 9 14. 22? 9
FODDER-RA                                     I. 102 0  I. 124 6  I. 147 2  I. 169. 7  1. 19?231.214 9  1.237 5  1.260 1  1. 2601 I   . 260. 1  1.260 I  1.260 I
SUGARCANE                                     5.250 0  5.365 05.480 0  5.595 0  5. 7100  5.825 0  5.940 0  6.055 0  6. 055 06.055 0  6.055 0  6.055 0
oIISEEDS                                         161.9    165 5       169 0     172 6     176 2     179 7    183 3       186 8    186 8      186 8      186 8     186 8
PULSES (GRAN$                                    920.7    939 8    958 9       978 0    997 11. 016?2  1. 035 3  1.054 4  1.054 4  1.054 4  1.054 4  1. 054 4
ORCHARIS icitilUSI                             1.568 0  1.595 5 1.623 1  1,650 6  1. 6782  1. 705 7  1.733 3   1.760 81.7608   1.760 8 1. 760 8   1. 760 8
SiAtlotal Nai'i Production          29..... 574 .2.30 . 349 .3.3.. 130 .0.3. 91   . 3. 7863..0 34...70.2.34. 83  03.  834.. 0.34. 834 0 34 .83.0 3...834.0
SubloValu  OFi Product ion                       29.574 2 30. 349 3 31. 130 0 31. 916.5 32. 7086 33. 506 4 34. 170 2 34. 834 0 34. 834 0 34. 834 0 34. 834.0 34. 834 0
Other Inflows
INCONE FROMl SEtLING PIlN HATER               8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 08.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0
PIN INCENTIVE                                 16.000. 0         -                              .                   -         .                    - 
Sub-Tolal Other Inflows                          24 225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0
. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
INFLONS                                       53.799.2 38.574 3 39.355 040. 141.5 40.933 641.731.4 42.395 2 43.059 043.059 0 43.059 043.059 0 43.059 0
Product ion Cost
Investmentt
TUBEN111.1                                23. 030 0              -    -                    .         . -  -                                      18. 424 0
Oporat ing
Inputs
8*SMATI SEED                               43.2      43.7       44 3      44.8      454       45 9       459       45 9      45 9      459        45 9      459
FERTIIIIER-NITROGEN  IN)                  873 9    906 3    939 I    972 1  1.005 51.039 2  1.064 4  1.089 6  1.089.6  1.089 6  1.089 6  1.089 6
FERTILIZER-PHIOSPHIOROUJS  IP2051         401 9    422 3    443 1    464 3    485 7    507 5    525 2    542 8    542.8    542 8    542 8    542 8
FERltilIER-POTASSION  (KI                  33 6      53 6       74 0      94 8    116 I    137 8        ISA 6    179 4      179 4     179 4      179 4     179 4
81UtL0CR WORK                           2.008 8  2.044 3  2.080 I  2. 116.0  2. 152 22. 188.5  2.205 8  2.223 0  2.223 0  2.223 0  2.223 0  2.223 0
TRACTOR WORKi                             566 1    571 4    578 8    582.1    5874    592 7    592 7    592 7    592 7    592 7    592 7    59?27
PESTICIDE                                 448.0    499.9    553 1    607 8    663.8    721. 1    772.6    824 0    824 0    824 0    824 0    824 0
cOAat HdATER CHARGES                      206.6    208. 1    209 6    211 I    212 6    214 0    214 0    214 0    214 0    214 0    214 0    214 0
STU NATER CHARGES                         206 6     173 4      139 7     lOSS5      709       35 7       -0 0      -0 0       00  -00        -0 0      -00 ~
NHEAT SEED                                282 2    286 9    291 6    296 4         301 I    305 8    305.8    305 8    305 8          305.0    3058        305 8
FMOER-NH SEED                              33 3      33.3      33 3       33.3      333       33 3      33.3      33 3       33 3      33 3      33 3       333
FODOR-RA SEED                              56 1      56. 1     56 1      58 1       56.1      56 1      56.1      56 1       56 1      56.1      56 1      56iI
SUGAR SEED                              1. 014 0  1. 014 0  1. 014 0  1, 014. 0  1.014 01.0O14 0  1.014 0   i.014 0  1. 014 0  1.014 0  1. 014 0  1. 014 0
OIESEEO'S SEED                              I 3        I 3       1 3       1. 3      1.3        1 3       I 3       1 3       I 3        1. 3      I         1 3
PUlSES SEED                                61 9      61 9      61 9       61 9      61 9      61t 9     61 9      61 9       61 9      6it 9     61 9       61 9
ORCHARDOSEEO                                4. 0      4. 0       4. 0      4 0       40        40         40        4 0       4 0       4 0        4 0       40
Si~~-Tota1  Inputs              6     ~.241.  .. 6.3807  6.522..0  666.4...  6......0  6.9588..  7.0555..  ..87.9  7. 87-7---   7 9---  7.-87 9- -------9
Sub- Total tInputsn                          6.241 5  6.380 7  6.522 0  6.665.4  6.811 06.958 8  7.055 5  7.187 97.187 9  7.187 9  7.187 9  7.187 9
Sub-Total Productison Cost                       29.271 5  6.380 7  6.522 0  6.665 4  6.811 06.958 8  7.055 5  7.187 9  7.187 9  7.187 9 25. 611 9  7. 187 9
Othecr Outflows
TW OIN cost                                   6.000. 0  6.000. 0  6.000 0  6.000 0  6. 000. 06.000 0  6. 000. 0  6.0000 06.000 0  6.000 0  6.000 0  6.000 0
OUTTLoMS                                      35. 271. 5 12.380.7 12.522.0 12.665 4 12.SIl1. 012,958.8 13.055 5 13. 187 9 13. 187. 913. 187.9 31. 611. 9 13. 187 9
CASH FLON BEFORE FINANCING                       18. 5i27. 7 26. 193.6 26. 833.1I 27. 476.0 28. 122 5 28. i72 6 29. 339 7 29. 871 I 29. 871. I 29. 8?1. 1 11.447 1 29. 871.1I



PAKISTAN
PUNJAB. SECOND SCARP TASITION PRJEC
TABLE  4    PIJNJA8: SHALt I ARM - PIN ONNER R(O 5 CUSEC .DIESCE1: 2 NA farms Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
tin Rsi
Fv
Increwntal
1  2  3  4    5         6         7        8         9         ~~~      ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~10  11  12  13  14  15 20
a i n Produc tioan
BASRATI RICE IPADDY)                                    III 2    224.4    339 7    457 1    5,76. 5    647.2    718 0    718 0    718 0         718 0       718. 0    718.0    718 0    718 0
NHEAI                                               - 168 6    3408    516. 6    695.0    879.1    976 8  1.074 6  1.074 6  1.074 6  1.074 6   1.074 6  1, 074.6  1.074 6  1. 074. 5
lODUDR-RH                                          - 217 7    435 4    653 I    870 81 088. 5  I. 306. 2  1,523 9  1.523 91.523 91 1523. 9   1.523.9  1.523 9  1. 523. 9  l. 523. 9
fOBOER RA                                          -     179       357      53 6      71 4      89.3    107.2    125 0    125 0    1250          125 0      125 0     125 0     125 0    125.0
SUGARCANE                                                926      1862    277.8    3704    463 0    555.6    648 2    648.2    648.2    648 2              648 2    648 2    648.2    648.2
IltSUDoS-                                                 28        56        8 5      II. 3     14. 1    16. 9     19 7       9. 7     19 7      19 7       19. 7     19 7      19. 7     19 7
PULSES 4GRAS                                       -    14.9       29 7     44.6      59 4      74 3      89 I    104.0    104.0    104 0    104 0          104.0    104 0    104.0    104.0
ORCHARDS ICITRUSI                                        2089      416      62.4      83 2     104.0    124 8    145 6    145 6        1456      1~45 6     145 6     145.6    145.6    145.6.
5th Toial Rain Produclior                  -   6464---  --- .- 984------- 2-- 2----  6-- 3.288.--- 3.8238-- 4.-5-- 9-- 4.3589-- 4- 358.9--4.3---9-  4,358.9. 4.3589. 4.3589.  .......
Su  ot  alu 01i ProdLuctior                                646.4  1.298 4  1,956.2  2.619 6  3.288.7  3.82368  4.358.9  4.358 9  4.358.9  4.358 9   4.358.9  4.358 94.358 9  4,358.9
Other Inf loss
INCOE4 FROM SEItING PIN WEATER              8.225 08.225 0  8.225.0  8.225 0  8,225.0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8,225. 0  8.225 0  8.225. 0  8,225 0   8.225.0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0
PIN INCENIIVE                               16.000 0                                      . --                .        .                                        -         -. 
S.*-lotal Otther Inlow os                      24. 225 0 8.225 0  8.225.0  8.225 0  8.225.0  8, 225. 0  8.225.0  8,225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0  8.225 0   8,225.0  8.225 0  8.225.0  8. 225. 0
INFELOWS                                    24.225 0 8.,871. 4  9. 523. 4 10. 181. 2 10.844 6 11. 513.?7 12.048.8 12. 583. 9 12.583.9 12.583 9 12. 583. 9  12.583 9 12.583 912.583. 9 12.583 9
Producti'on Cost
Invettsmnt
TUBidI EI                               23.030.0         -         -        -         -                                 --                        -  18.424.0          -        -         -
Operat ing
Inputs
BASNATI SEED                                 -     0j        I I       1. 6      2.2       2.7      27        2.7       27        27        2. 7       2 7       2 7       2 7       2'I
IFRIILIZER-11111ROGEN INI                         261 I      26       793      106.4    133.8    152 8    171 7    171 7    171. 7        171 7      171 7    171 7    171 7    171 7
IERILtiZER-PIIOSPIIOROUIS (P2051                  17 3      35.0      53 0     71 3      89.9    104 4    118 9    118.9    118 9         l118 9     Il8 9    1l8e9    118 9    118 9
FERIIEIlEA-POTASSitUN  013                        17.6      35.6      54 0      72 9     92.2    110 6    129.0    129 0        129 0    129.0       129 0     1290      1290    1290
mutietci WORK                                     35.5      71 3    107 2    143 4    179 7    197 0    214.2    214 2    214 2           214.2      214 2    214 2    214 2    214.2
TRACIORNR MM                                       5 3      10 7      160      21 3      26.6      26.6      26 6      26 6      266       26 6       26.6     26 6      26 6      26.6
PESTICIDE                                         51.9    105. 1    159 8    215.8    273.1I   324.6    376.0    376 0    376.0    376.0             376.0    376 0    37650    376.0
'ANAE REATER CHARGES                         -     1.5       3.0       4.4       5.9       7.4       7.4      7.4       74        7.41      7.4        7 4       7.4       7 4       7.4
STV MAIER CHARGES                                -18.4    -37.4       56 8     -76 7    -97.2   '118.1   -103.3    -88 6    -73 8         -59 0      -44 3    -29.5    -14 8        -0 0
WHEAT SEED                                         4.7       9 4      14.1      18.8      23.5     23.5      23 5      23 5      23.5      23.5       23 5      23.5      23.5     23.5
Stb-Tot*l Inputs                                    142. 1    286 3    432 6    581 2    731.8    831.5i   966.8    981 6    996 31 1011.1I   1, 025. 8  1.040 6  1.055 4  1. 070. 1
Sub-fotal Operating                                 - 142.1    286.3    432 6    581.2    731.8    831 5    966 8    981.6    996 3  1,011.1   1,025.8  1.0406  1,055.4  1,070.1
Sih- lot&aI Product ioo. Cost                  23,030.0   142. I    286 3    432.5 6     81.2    731.8    831.5    966.8    981.6    996.3  1. 011. I  19,449.8  1, 040.6  I, 055. 4  1,070. 1
Other Outflowss
IN tita cost                                 6.000 0 6.000 0  6. 000. A  6.000 0  6.000 0  6, 000. 0  6,000. 0  6.000 0  6, 000. 0  6,000. 0  6.000 0   6, 000. 0  6.000 06 6000. 0  6,000.0
CASH IN FlmClICHE tINIAla,.:'                   4.805 0 2.729 3  3.237 2  3.748 5  4,263.4  4.781 8  5.217 3  5.617 1 5,602.4  5.587 6  5.572 9 -12.865 9  5,543.3  5,528.6  S.S0. l



PAKISIAN
PUNJII: SECONID SCARP IRAUSITION PROJECI
TABLE  5   PUNJAB: LAWRE fARN - BUYING HAIfER: 10 HA form lodol
fINANCIAL BEDGET
lln Rs}
fY
With Project
1        2         3         4         5         6         7     8 to 20
Rain Production
BASNAII RICE IPADDY1                    13. 067.6  13. 498. 8  13. 937. 0  14. 382.2  14.834 3  15. 293.4  15. 537. 5  I5. 781. 6
IHEA4                                   20.496.0  21.053 0 21.617.0  22. 188.0  22,765 9 23. 350 8  23. 716 8  24 082 8
`ODDERII-H                              53. 120.0 53. 738.9  54.357 9 54. 976.8  55. 595 8 56. 214.7 56.833.7  57. 452. 6
fODDER-R4                                5. 130 0  5. 189.7  5. 249.4  5.309. 1  5. 368 9  5.428. 6  5.488 3  5. 548.0
SUGARCANE                               21. 000.0  21. 352.0  21.704 0 22. 056.0  22, 408.0  22.760 0  23. 112.0 23. 464.0
OltSEEDS                                   778.5    792.6    806.7    820 8    834.8    848 9         863 0     877 1
PULSES IGRANU                            4, 050.0  4.098.2  4. 146 4  4. 194.6  4.242.9  4. 291. 1  4.339.3  4.387.5
ORCHARDS ICIIRUSI                        8.000 0  8, 128.0  8 255. 0  8,384.0  8, 512.0  8,640. 0   8. 768. 0  8. 896.0
Sub-Total Rain Production                 125,642.1 127.851.3 130.074.4 132,311.5 134,562.5 136.827 5 138,658.6 140.489.7
Not Value Of Production                   125,642. 1 127,851.3 130.074 4 132,311.5 134,562.5 136.827 5 138, 658.6 140.489.7
Production Cost
Operating
Inputs
BASNATI SEED                         175.5    178. 2     180 9     183 6     186. 3    189.0     189.0     189.0
FERIILIZER-UI3ROGEN 110            3.706.9   3,823.8  3,941.9  4.061.2  4,181.7  4.303.4  4.398 0   4,492.5
TERIILIlER-PHOSPWOROUS IP205)      1,895.4  2.013. 1  2. 131.4  2,251.2  2.372 5   2.495 4   2.603. 1  2.710 8
fER11LIZER-POTASSIUN  INI            147.8    212.1    277.2    343.0    409 7    477.2    543 1    609 0
EliltOCI IORN                      8.442.0  8,576.7   8.712 5   8.849 3  8.987. 1   9.126.0   9.198 0   9,270.0
IRACICR MMOR                       2.397 6  2.415 4  2.433 1  2.450 9  2. 468.6  2.486.4  2. 486. 4  2.486.4
PESTICIDE                          1.8400   2.000.0  2.162.3   2.3269   2.493.7  2.662.9  2.811 4  2,960.0
CUAAt AITER CNARGES                  872 8    878. 1    883.4    a8. 6    893 9    899. 2       899 2    899.2
SIR1 HAIER CHARGES                   872.8    731 7    588 9    444.3    298.0         149.9     -0 0      -0. 0
WHEAT SEED                         1. 176 0   1. 187.8  1. 199.5  1, 211.3  1. 223. 0   1,234.8  1. 234. 8   1. 234. 8
fODDER-1N1 SEED                      148 0     148 0     148.0    148.0    148.0    148 0       148. 0    148.0
fOODER-RA SEED                       280.5    280.5    280.5    280.5    280.5    280.5    280.5    280.5
SUGAR SEED                         4. 056. 0  4,056.0  4.056 0   4,056.0  4. 056. 0   4.056.0  4.056.0   4.056 0
OltSEEDS SEED                          6.5       6.5       6.5       6.5      6.5       6.5       6.5       6.5
PULSES SEED                          281.2    281.2    281.2    281.2    281.2    281.2    281.2    281.2
ORCHlRD SEED                          20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0     20.0      20.0      20.0      20.0
Stb-oltaI Inputs                     26. 320.0  26. 809. 1 27, 303. 3 27.802.6 28.306.9 28, 816. 4 29. 155. 2 29, 644. 0
Hired labor
HIRED 1480R                        9.420.0  9.850. 1 10,304.2  10.752.5  11.204.9  11.661.4  11.965.7  12.270.0
Sih-Total Operating                     35.740.0  36. 669. 1 37. 607. 5 38. 555. 1 39.511. 8  40.477.8 41. 121. 0  41.914. 0
Othe Ot eflows
COST OF BUYING PIll HAIER                1.340.0  1.340.0  1. 340.0  1. 340.0  1.340.0  1.340.0  1.340.0  1. 340. 0
OlftOMlS                                 37.080.0  38.009. 1 38. 947 5  33.895. 1 40.851 8 41.817.8  42,461.0  43.254 0
CAS" flOW BtfORE IINANCING                 88.562 1 89.842 1 91. 126.9  92.416 4 93.710 7 95.009 7 96. 197 6 97.235.7



PAKISTAN
PUNlJ8: SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
14atE  6   PUNJAB: LARGE FARM 8-UYING WATER: 10 HA form Model
fINANCIAt BUDiET
lin Rsl
FT
Incremental
I       2         3       4       s       6       7       8         9        10       it       12        13       14   15 tO 20
Niun Production
BASNATI RICE IPADOIi                            -   371 2   749.44 1. 134. s 1. 526. 7 1. 925.8 2, 109. 9  2.294. 0  2. 294.0  2.294. 0  2. 294.0  2.294 0  2. 294.0  2 294. 0  2. 294. 0
SWEAT                                           -   466.4   939.7 1.420.1 1.907.4 2,401 7 2.677.0  2.992.4  2.952 4  2.952.4  2.952.4  2.952 4  2.952.4  2.952 4  2.952 4
FlOER-NI                                        -   391.3  782. 6 1. 173.9 1. 565. 1 1. 956 4 2.347.7  2.739 0  2,739 0  2.739. 0  2.739.0  2.739.0  2. 739. 0  2.739. 0  2.739. 0
FONER-RA                                        -     3.? 7    5.s   113.2  1S  9   I8. 6   226 4    264.1   264 1   264 1   264 1   264 1    264. 1   264.1    264. 1
SURcaNE                                         -   262.0   524.0   786.0 1. 048.0 1. 310. 0  . 572.0  1.834. 0  1. 834.0  1. 834. 0  1. 834.0  1.834 0  1. 834.0  1. 834. 0  1. 834. 0
OllSEEDS                                        -     10.4    20.8    31. 1   41.5    Sl 9    62.3      72.7     72 7     72.7     72.7      72 7      72.7     72.?     72?
PU.lSES  GRAIm                                  -    28. 9    57.9    86.8   115.7   144 6   173 6    202.5   202 s    202 5    202.5    202.5    202.9    202.5   202.9
ORCHARDS ICITRUSI                                     93. 7   187.4  281. 1  374.9  468 6   562. 3    656. 0    696 0    656 0    656 0    656.0    656. 0    656.0   656.0
Sub Total Slain Production                         -  1.661.6 3.337.2 5.026.7 6.730.2 8.447.6 9.731. 1 It.014.7 11.014.7 11.014.7 11,014 7 11. 014 7 11.014 7 1I.014.7 11.014.7
Not Val. Ul Prudugtion                            -  1.661.6 3.337.2 5.026.7 6.730.2 8.447.6 9.731 1 11.014.7 11.014. 711.014.7 11,014. 7 11.014 7 11.014.7 11 .014.7 11,014.7
Producti on Cost
Op1erai Ing
I rVUl S
BASRAII SEED                              -      2. 7    5.4     8.1    10.8   13. 5    13. 5     13. 5    13 9     13. 5    13 5      13 s     13 9     13.5     13.5
FERL.l1ER-NII:11TROGEN  NI                -     78.3   157.8  238.5   320.3  403.3   459.3    515.2    919.2    515.2    515.2    515 2    515.2    515.2    515.2
fERIltilER-POSPIOROUS (P2M)5              -    95.2   192.0  290.3  390. 1  491.   577. 7   663.9    663.9    663.9    663.9    663 9    663.9    663 9    663.9
fERII&IZER-PoIRSSlSU  (R                  -    51.8   104.4  1W7.8  212.0  257.0  320.4   373.8    373.8    373.8    373.8    373 8    373.8    373.8    373.8
SiLO   WORK                               -    134.7   270.s   407.3  545. 1  684.0  756.0    828.0    824 0    828 0    828.0    828.0   828 0    828.0    828 0
lRacloR W-                                      17.8    35.5    53.3    71.0    88.8    8.8      88.      88.8      88.8     88.8     88.8     88.8      88.8     88.8 
PESTICIDE                                 -    160. 0   322.3   486.9  653.7   822.9   971.4  1. 120.0  1. 120 0  1. 120 0  1. 120.0  1. 120.0  1. 120 0  1. 120.0  1. 120.0
CaAt WATER C4ARGES                        -     S.3    10.6    19. 8    21. 1   26.4    26.4     26.4      26.4     26.4     26.4     26.4     26 4      26.4     26.4
SIM WATER CHARGES                              -78.7  -159.2  -241.5  -329 s  -411 2  -498.7  -436.4  -374.1   -311 7   -249.4   -187.0  -124 7    -62.3          -0.0
EAIT SEED                                       11 8    23. 9    39.3    47.0    9 8    9 88     58.8      58. 8    58.8    98.8      98 8     58.8      58.8     58 8
SIAb-Tolal Inputs                            -   478.8  962.7 1, 451. 7 1.94.8 2.445. 0 2. 773. 6  3. 252. o  3. 314.4  3.376.7 3. 439. 1 3. 901. 4  3. 563. 8  3. 626. 1 3.688.4
Hired tdbor
hIRED t48Da                               -   334.6   673.4 1.016.2 1.363.2 1.714.3 1,913.1  2.112.0  2,112.0  2,112.0  2. 112.0  2.112.0  2,112.0  2. 112.0  2.112. 0
Sid-Tot.S  Operatinr                            -   813.5 1.636.1 2.468.0 3.309.0 4,159.3 4.686.7  S,364.0  5.426.4  5.488.7  9.S91 1 5,613.4  5.675.8  ,738. 1 5.800.4
Othew Oulf los
cOsT Of BUYING PIW MAIER                  1.340 0  1. 340. 0 1. 340. 0 1,340.0 1. 340. 0 1,340.0 1, 340. 0  1.340.0  1. 340.0  1.340 0  1. 340. 0  1. 340. 0  1.340.0  1.340 0  1. 340. 0
OITFIlONS                                  1,340.0  2, 193.5 2.976. 1 3.808.0 4.649.0 5,499.3 5.025.7 6,704. 0  6, 76.4  6.828.7  6.891. 1 6. 953. 4  7,015.8  7. 078. 1 7. 140.4
CASS ftOW BEFOR FIACING                    -1.340.0  -491.8   361.1 1.218.8 2.081.2 2,948.3 3.704.4  4.310.6  4.248. 3 4.1895.9  4,123.6  4.061.3  3.998.9  3.936.6  3.874.2



PAKI STAN
PUJNJA.B: SECOND SCARP tRA?WSITION PROJECT
TABLE   7   PINJNA8: LARGE FARM - PTN OWNIER (1 CUSEC DIESEL): 10 NA fsrm Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(In Rs)
FT
With Project
2         2          3          4          5          6          7          8       92to20       21         12         13    20
Rain Produjct ion
BASNtAlI RICE IPADOYI                        15. 616 5  16.427 8  17,259 7  18. 112 1  18, 984. 9  19,878.3  20.314 3  20.750 2  20. 750 2  20. 750 2  20.750 2  20. 750.2
WHUEAT                                       22. 545 6  23. 497.2  24. 468 3  25. 459 0  26. 469. 1  27. 498 8  28. 060. 0  28. 621 2  28. b2  2  28. 621 2  28. 621. 2  28. 621. 2
FODDER-KH                                   56. 440 0  57. 677 9  58.915 8  60. 153 7  61. 391 5  62, 629 4  63. 867 3  65.1205 2  65. 105. 2  65, 105 2  65. 205 2  65. 205. 2
FODOiR-RA                                    5.700 0 5.852.8   6.005 6   6. 258. 4   6.311 3   6,464 2   6. 616 9   6.769 7   6. 769 7   6.769 7   6. 769.7   6, 769. 7
SUSARCANE                                   21. 560 0  22. 033 2  22. 506 4  22. 979 6  23. 452 8  23,926.0  24. 399. 2  24, 872. 4  24. 872 4  24. 872 4  24, 872 4  24. 872 4
DiLSELDS                                        830 4      854 2      877 9      901 6      925.3      949 G      972.8     996 5      996 5      996.5      996 5      996.5
PULtSES (GRAPh                                4. 320. 0   4.435 7   4.551 4   4.667 1   4,782.9   4.898 6   5.014 3   5.130 0   5. 130. 0   5.1230 0   5, 130. 0   5. 130. 0
ORCHARDS (CIRIRiSi                            8.800 0   8.988 6   9.1/7 I   9.365 7   9.554 3   9.742 9   9.931 4  20. 120.0  10. 120 0  10. 120 0  10. 120 0  10. 220.0
Sub total Rain Production                      135.812 5 139.767 4 143.762 2 247.797 2151.872 2 155.987 I 259. 176 1 162.365 2 162.365 2 162.365 2 162.365 2 162.3652 21
Net Value Of Product ion                       135. 812 5 139. 767 4 143. 762 2 247. 797 2 151. 872 2 155. 987 2 159. 276. 2 162. 365.2 162. 365 2 162. 365 2 162. 365 2 162, 365 2 i
Other Inflows
INCONT FROM SlILING PIN WATER                5.350 0   5.350 0   5.350 0   5.350 0   5.350 0   5.350 0   5.350 0   5,350.0   5, 350. 0   5, 350. 0   5.350 0   5.350 0
PIN INCENIIVE                                16. 000.0         -          .--                              -                     ..-.-
Stdt-Total Other Inflovs                        21. 350 0   S. 350 0   5.350 0   5. 350. 0   5,350.0   5.350 0   5.350 0   5. 350 0   5.350 0   5.350 0   5,350.0   5.350 0 
mlONfoS                                      157.1262 5 145.1227 4 149, 112. 2 153,1247 2 157.222.1 1 61. 337 2 164.526. 1 167. 715.2 167.715 2 167, 715. 2 267. 715.2 167.715.2              OD
Produict ton Cost
Inv.stamnt
TIIBENElL                                35,050.0           -               -          -                .                     -          -          -  28.040.0
Oprating
BASRAII SEED                             202 5      207 9      213 3      228. 7     224 2      229.5      229.5      229.5      229 5      229 5      229 5      229 5
FERII1.I1ER-11ITROGEN MNl              4,025.0   4. 187. 9   4.353 6   4.522. 1   4.693 4   4.867 5   4.984.0   5.200 5   5. 100. 5   5.100 5   S. I200. 5   5.100o. 5
fERTILtIER PHIOSP22OROUS IP2O5)        1,977.0   2. 112 4   2.250. 8   2,392.3   2,536.9   2. 684. 5   2. 801. 9   2,919 2   2. 919. 2   2.919 2   2. 9192   2.919 2
FERTILIZER-POTASS2UNl III                247. 8     214 5      282.9      352 8      424.4      497.6      567 6      637 6      637.6      637.6      637 6      637 6
BUItOCA WORK                           8.946.0   9. 151 2   9. 358. 5   9.567 8   9. 779.   9.992 6  10.072 3  10.152 0  20. 152 0  10, 252 0  10.1520  20 1520
TRAC1OR NORK                           2. 530. 8   2.566 3   2.601 8   2,637 4   2. 672. 9   2.708 4   2.708 4   2.708.4   2.708 4   2.708 4   2.708 4   2.708. 4
PtS2IC2IOE                             2.000.0   2.305 I   2.6519 4   2.94? 9   3.275.4   3, 617.21  3,9208. 6   4,200.0   4.200 0   4.200 0   4.200 0   4.200 0
CANA. NAikER ChARGES                     925 0      925. 6     936 2      946. 7     957. 2     967.8      967. 8     967.8      967 8      967 8      967 8      967 8
STN WATER CHARGES                        925.0      771 3      624. 2     473.3      319. I     161.3       '0.0       .0 0       -0.0       -0.0       -0.0       *0 0
ISIEAI SEED                            1.234 B   1.258 3 1. 281 8 2. 305 4   1,328. 9   2.352 4   1.352 4   1. 3524   1.352 4   2, 352. 4   1.352 4   1, 352. 4
FODDER-KU SEED                           148 0      148.0      148 0      148.0      148.0      248 0      148.0      248 0      248 0      148.0      148.0      148.0
FODOER-RA SEED                           280.5      280 5      280.5      280.5      280 5      280.5      280 5      280 5      280 5      280 5      280 5      280.5
SUGAR SEED                             4.056 0   4.056 0   4,056.0   4, 056. 0   4,056.0   4,056.0   4,056.0   4. 056 0 4. 056. 0   4,056.0   4, 056. 0   4,056 0
OILSE[DS SEED                              6.5        6.5        6 5        6 5        6 5        06.5       6.5        65         65S        6 5        6.5        6 5
PULSES SEED                              282 2      281 2      281 2      282 2      282.2      282.2      282 2      282.2      281 2      281 2      281 2      281.2
OIRCHARD SEED                             20.0       20.0       20 0       20 0       20.0       20.0       20 0       20 0       20 0       20.0       20.0       20.0
Sub~-2o1al 2Iwts                         27.686 2  28.492 8  29. 314 6  30. 252. 5  31. 003.?7  32, 872.0  32, 384 6  33,059.5  33,059.5  33.059 5  33,059.5  33,059.5
Htired labor
HIRED LABOR                           22.892 0  12. 502 8  13. 129 8  13. 746 0  14. 380.5  IS. 023. 1  15. 344 6  25. 666 0  15, 666. 0  15. 666 0  15. 666 0  15, 666. 0
- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - -   - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -- - -  - -   - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -   - - -- - - - -   - - - - - - -
S.k lota  Operat ing                         39. 578 2  40. 994 5  42. 434 3  43. 827 5  45. 384.12 46,894.2  47,729.2  48,725.5  48,725.5  48,725.5  48,725.5  48. 725 5
--- -- - -   - - - - --   - - --- - - -- - - - - -   - -- - --   - - --   -- - -   - -- - - -   - - -- -- - -- - -- --   - - - - - -   - - -- --
Sub- Total Product ion Cost                     74. 628 2  40.994 5  42. 434 3  43. 897 5  45. 384 I 46. 894 2  47. 729. 2  48. 725.5  48,725.5  48. 725 5  76. 765 5  48, 725.5
Other Oui;lous                                                                                                                                                                               ..j4..
IN DAR COST                                  22.500 0  2250.So.0  11, 500. 0  21.500 0  22.500 0  22.500 0  12.500 0  12, 500.0  22,500. 0  11,500 0  2I.,500. 0  22.500.0
OUTFLOWS                                      86.1228 2  52. 494. 5  53. 934 3  55. 397 5  56. 884 1 58, 3981 2  59. 229 2  60. 225. 5  60. 225. 5  60, 225.5  88. 265. 5  60. 225 5
CASH FLOW BEfORE FINANCING                      72.034 3  92.622 8  95.1277.9  97.749 6 200.338 0 202.942 9 205,297.0 107.489.7 207.489 7 207.489 7  79 449 7 107.489 7



PAKISIAN
PUjNJAB: SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJIECI
IABLE   8   PUJNJAB. LARGE FARN - PIN OIMER II CUSEC DIESEL). 10 HA farm Nodel
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(in Rs)
FY
I ncr.lwnts I
1        2         3          4         5         6         7        8        9         10        II       12         13        14       15 -20
ftin ProduCtion
BASNITI RICE IPABSTI                                    943.71  1.909 9   2, 898.17  3. 910. 0  4.943 9  S.,308. 1 5,672.2  5, 672.2  5,672.2  5,672.2   5,672.2  5. 67?. 2  5,672.2  5. 672.?2
111(1AT                                                 856 4   I. 732. 4   2. 627. 9   3.S42.9  4.477 4  4.943 45 5409. 5  5.409 5  5.409 5  5.409 5   5.409 5  5.409 5S 5409. 5  5, 409. 5
?oOOER-Itl                                              996.0   1.992.0   2.988.0   3.984.0  4,980.0  5.976 0  6.972 0  6.972 0  6.972.0  6 972 0   6, 972. 06. 972. 0  6.972.0  6,972.0
fOODOER-RA                                         -     95 8     191 6      287 4     303.3    479 1    574 9    670 7    670.7    670 7    670 7         670 7    670 7    670 7    670 7
SUGARCANE                       .-                      380.8a    761 6   1, 142. 4   1.523.2  1.904 0  2.284 8  2.665 6  2, 665. 62.665 6  2, 665.86  2.665 6  2,665.6  2,665.6  2,865.6
OILSEEDS                                                 is. 6     31 I       46 7      62. 3     77 8     93 4    109.0    109. 0    109 0    109 0       109. 0    109 0    109.0    109.0
PUISES IGRANI                                            72.3      144 6     217 0     289 3    361.6    433 9    506 3    506 3    506. 3    506 3        506 3    506 3    506.3    506 3
ORCHARDS IClIIRlJS)                                     154.3     308.6      462.9      517. 1    771.4    925.7  1.0810 0  1,080.0  1.080 0  1.080 0   1.080 0  1.080 0  1,080.0  1, 080. 0
Sub~-Iotal Rain Production                             3. 3514. 9   7. 071 9  10.670 9  14. 312. 1 17, 995. 3 20.540 3 23. 085 2 23.085 2 23.085 2 23.085 2  23.085 2 23. 085. 2 23.085 2 23,085.2
Ne( Value OF Production                               -3,514 9   7, 071. 9  10, 670. 9  14,312.1 17. 995. 3 20,540.3 23,085.2 23,085.2 23, 085. 2 23.085.?  23,085.2 23, 085. 2 23,085.2 23,085.2
Other Inflows
INCOME FRON SELliNG PIN WATER               5,350.0  5,350.0   5,350.0   5.350 0   5, 350. 0  5, 350. 0  5, 350. 0  5.350 0  5,350.0  5,350.0  5.350 0   5,350.0  5,350.0  5,350.0  5,350.0
PIN INCENTIVE                              16.000.0         -          -         -          -        -         -        -         -        -         --                  -         -        -
Ssib-Tolta OIther Inflows                     21,350.0  5.350. 0   5, 350. 0   5, 350. 0   5, 350. 0  S.,35i. 0  5, 350. 0  5, 350. 0  5,350.0  5, 350. 0  5.350 0   5, 350. 0S 5350. 0  5,350.0  5.350 0 
INFLOWS                                     21, 350. 0  8,864.9  12,421.9  16, 020. 9  19. 662. I 23,345.3 25,890.3 28,435.2 28,435.2 28,435.2 28,435.2  28,435.2 28,435.2 28. 435 2 28,435.2I-
Production Cost
Investment
IUSEMELt                                35. 050.0                  - -             -         -         -        -         -             -         - 28,040.0          -                  -
OpIeratiung
BASIIAII SEED                               -      8.1I      18 2      24.3       32.4     40.5      40.5     40 5      40. 5    40.5      40 5       40.5     40 5      40.5     40.5
fEATILIlER-UIIROGEN IN)                     -    133. I     269.7     409.8      553. 3    700. 3    776.5    852. 7    852. 7    852 7    852.7     852. 7    852 7    a52. 7    852 7
FERYItIZER-PHOSPIIOROUJS (P2051             -     96.7      196.?     300.0      406.6    516. 5    591. 6    666.6    666. 6    666. 6    666.6     666.6    666. 6    666 6    586. 6
FERitiEER-POTASSIUN HIT                     -      4.2      It0. 1    167.5      226.7    287.4    344.9    402.4    402.4    402.4    402.4        402.4    402 4    402 4    402.4
BULLOCK MMoX                                     241.2      484.5     729 8      977. I  1, 226. 6  1,306.3  1, 386. 0  1, 386. 01, 386. 0  1, 388. 0   1, 386. 01 1386. 0  1, 386. 0  1,386.0
TRACTOR WM01                                      44.4       88.8      133.2     177 6    222.0    222.0    222.0    222. 0    222.0    222 0        222.0    222.0    222.0    222.0
PESTICIDE                                   -    321 I      651 4     990.9   1, 339. 4  1. 697. 1  1,988.6  2, 280. 0  2,280. 0  2,280.0  2,280.0   2.280 0  2,280.0  2,280.0  2,280.0
CAIIt WAIER CHARGES                         -      13. 7     27. 4      41.2      54.9      68. 6    68.6      68. 6    68. 6     68. 6    68 6       68.6     68.6      68 6     68. 6
STU WATER CHARGES                           -     -75.4    -154.8    -238.1    -325.5   -416.8   -513.8   -449.6   -385.4   -321.1   -256.9    -192.?   -128. 5    -64. 2          -0. 0
MIEAT SEESD                                        23. 5     47. 0      70. 6     94. 1    117. 6    117. 6    117. 6    117. 6    117. 6    117 6   117. 6    117 6    117 6    117.6
Sub-Total lr"ts                                -    860.7   1, 737. 1   2,629.0   3,536.6  4,459.8  4,942.6  5,586. 7  S.,651. 05,715.2  5, 779. 4   5, 843.7  5,907. 9  5.972.1 I 8036.3
Hired Labor
HIRED LAM3                                       589.9   1, 188. 0   1,794.3   2,408.9  3, 031. 7  3,246.9  3, 462. 0  3,462.0  3, 462. 0  3.462 0   3,462.0  3,462 0  3,462.0  3, 462. 0
ktb-Total operatiung                               -  1, 450. 6   2.925. 1  4,423.4   5,945.5  7, 491. 6  8. 189. 5  9, 048.7  9. 113. 0  9,177.2  9, 241. 4   9,305.7  9,369 9  9,434. 1 9, 498. 3
Sub-Total Production Cost                     35, 050. 0  1, 450. 6   2, 925. 1   4,423.4   5,945. 5  7, 49t. 6  8, 189. 5  9,048.7  S. 113. 09, 177. 2  9, 241. 4  37,345.7  9, 369. 9  9,434.1  9,498.3
Other Outflows
IN OAR COSF                               1it0.So.0 11, 500. 0  11,500.0  II1,500. 0  II50.So.0 11, 500. 0 1150.So.0 it1,500. 0 II.,500. 0it1,500. 0 11,500 0  II.,500.0II 11,50.0 II. 500. 0 II.500o 0
OUTFL OWS                                   46, 550. 0 12, 950. 6  14. 425. 1  15,923.4  17,445.5 18, 991. 6 19, 669. 5 20. 548.?7 20,613.0 20, 677. 2 20,741.4  48, 845. 720,869.9 20. 934. 1 20,998.3
CASH1 FLOW BEFORE FINANCING                  -25.200.0 -4.085.7  -2.003.2        97.5   2, 216. 5  4,353.7  6,200. 8  7, 886. 5  7,822.3  7, 758. 0  7, 693. 8 -20, 410. 47.565 3  7, 501. I 7, 436. 9  ib



PAIl STAN
SINIION: SECOND SCARP IRANSITION PROJECT
TABLE 9    SINON: SALLt FARN - BUYING HATER: 3.6 MA Form Nodel
FINANCIAC   BUDGET
fln Rsl
fT
with Project
I       2        3        4        S        6       7    8 to 20
Ibn Production
COTTON                                  5.157.1 5I 243. 1 5.329.0  5 415.0 95,00.9  5 586.9  5.672.8  S. 758.8
INEAI                                   6. 102. 4  6 174. 7 6.247. 0  6 319.3 6,391. 6  6,463. 9 6 536.2 6,608.5
FODOER-lt                                 264.0   267. 1   270. 2   273.2   276. 3   279.4   282. 5   285.6
FOOOER-RA                                 735.3   743 9    752.4   761.0   769.5   778. 1   786. 6   795.2
SUGARCINE                               6,020.0  6, 090. 1 6. 160.2  6,230.3 6.300.4 6. 370.5  6.440.5  6.510. 6
OILSEEuiS                                 411.0   415.5   420 0   424.5   429.0   433.5   438.0   442.4
PULSES (GRANI                             633.2   640. 6   648.0   655. 4   662.9   670. 3   677. 7    689. 1
ORCHARDS ICITRUSI                       2.492. 0  2. S20. 0 2.548.0 2.576. 0  2. 604.0 2, 632. 0 2.660 0  2, 688. 0
SORSHIN                                   459.4   464.8   470.3   475.8   481.2   486.7   492.2   497.6
IRRI RICE                                 146.0    147.9   149.8   191. 8    153.7   ISS. 6    157. 6    199.9
Smt-lot.I Rain Product ion                22. 420.4 22, 707.7 22. 994.9 23. 282.2 23.569. 5 23. 856.8 24. 144 0 24. 431. 3
Net Value Of Product ion                  22. 420.4 22.707.7 22. 994.9 23. 282.2 23.569.5 23. 856.8 24. 144.0 24. 431. 3
Product ion Cost
f4pratin9
Inputs                                                                                                                                         0
COTTON SEED                         141.7   141.7   141.7   141.7   141.7   141.7   141. 7    141.7
FERTILIZER-NIIRDGEN C1)           1.260.0  1,283.4  1.306.9  1,330.4  1,353.8  1.377.3  1.400.7  1.424.2
FERIILIIER-PHOSPN ROUIS IP2M9I      424.4   450.6   476.8   503.0   529.2   555.4   581. 6   607.8
FERltLIZER-POTASSIU4   IHI           75.2    75.2    75.2    75.2    75.2    75.2    79.2    75.2
BULLOCI MM03                      2,749. 0 2. 750. 1 2. 755. 3  2. 760. 4  2, 769. 6 2. 770.7  2.775.9  2. 781. 0
TRACTOR NMII                        673.8   673.8   673.8   673.8   673.8   673.8   673.8   673.8
PESTICIDE                         1,680.0  1.680. 0  16 80.0  1.680.   1,680.0  1,680.0  1,680.0  1.680.0
CANALt AIER CHNAiES                 286.0   286.0   286.0   286.0   286.0   286.0   286.0   286.0
STN/lDRANSIE CESS CHARIES           272.6   227. 1   181. 7    136.3    90.9    45. 4        -        -
INEA1 SEED                          358. 7   358.7   358.7   358.7   358.7   358.7   358.7   358.7
F10001-KH SEED                       18.9    18.5    18.5    18.5    18.95    18.         18.5     18.5
FDOOER-RA SEED                       53.S    53. 9     53.9    93.S    53. 9     53.5    53 5    53.5
SUGAR SEED                        1,092. 9  1, 104.9  1. 116.8  1.128.8  1, 140.8  1.152.8  1.164. 7  1. 176.7
OISEEDS SEED                         3.6      3.6      3.6      3.6      3.6     3.6      3.6      3.6
PUtSES SEED                          39.4    39.4    39.4    39.4    39.4    39.4    39.4    39.4
ORCHARD SEED                          7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0
IRRI SEED                             2.2      2.2      2.2     2.2      2.2      2.2      2.2      2.2
S,b-Iotal Inputs                     9. 134. 1 9. 19.5  9. 176.9  9.198.2  9,219.6  9,241.0  9,262 3  9.329.1
Sub-lotal Owerting                      9. 134. 1 9. 199.9  9. 176.9  9. 198.'2  9,219.6  9,241.0  9.262.3  9.329.1
OtheW Outf lows
COST Of St71G PIlN KATER                 482.0   482.0   482.0   482.0   482.0   482.0   482.0   482.0
OUTFtOlNS                                9.616. 1 9,637.5  9.658.9  9.680.2  9,701.6  9.723.0  9,744.3  9.811. 1
CAS4 FLOW BEFORE FINANCING                12,804.2 13,070.2 13.336. 1 13,602.0 13,867.9 14,133.8 14,399.7 14,620.2                                   g
Sou-ces Of finance                                                                                                                                  0
Transfer from Previous Period           9,134.1 9,155.5  9,176.9  9,198.2  9,219.6  9.241.0  9,262.3  9,329.1
Less Tr5nsfor To next Period            9, 155.5 9. 176.9 9. 198.2  9.219. 6  -. ?41.0  9,262.3 9. 329. 1 9.329. 1
Sih-Total Sources Of finance                  21.4   -21.4   -21.4   -21.4   -21.4   -21.4   -66.8                                                     1
NET fiNAN4CIN                                -21.4   -21.4   -21.4   -21.4   -21.4   -21.4   -66.8



PAAISIAN
SIMNN: SECOND SCAlP IRUASITION PROJECT
TAStE  10  SINDlI: SNAIL FARM - BUYING WATER: 3.6 NA Farm NodalI
FINANCIAL BUDGET
tin Its)
FT
Increemta I
I      2      3       4     5       6       7        a        9      10       II      12       13       14    151to20
Rain Production
LOT ION                                         -49.1I  98.2 147. 3  196. 5  245. 6   294.?   343 8   343.8   343.8   343.8   343.8   343.8   343.8    343.8
StEAl                                               44 7   89.3 134.0  178. 6  223.3   267.9   31265   312 5   312 6   312 6   312.6   312 6   312.6    312.6
FODDER-RH                                             1.92   3. 9   S. 8    7. 8    9.7    II. ?   13. 6    13. 6    13. 6    13 6    13 6    13. 6    13.6     13. 6
FOD0KR-RA                                       -      . 4   10. 8  16. 2   21. 6   27.0    32.4    37.8    37 8    37.8    37.8    37.8    37.8    37.8        37.8
SUGARCANE                                           44 3   88.6 132. 9  177.2  221 4   265.7   310.0   310.0   310.0   310 0   310.0   310.0   310.0    310. 0
OILSEEDS                                        -    2. 9    5.7   8. 6   It. 4   14. 3    17. 1    20. 0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20 0    20. 0    20.0      20. 0
PIULSES (GRAI-    4. 1    9.4  14. 2   18. 9   23.6    28.4    33 1    33.1    33. 1    33.1    33. 1    33. 1    33.1                                         33.1
ORCHIARDS (CITRUS)                                   17I. 2   34.4  51.6r  68.8   86. 0   103.2   120. 4   120.4   120.4   120.4   120 4   120.4   120.4    120 4
SOUGNUN                                              3. 4    6.8  10. 3   13. 7   17.1I   20.S    23.9    23.9    23.9    23 9    23 9    23.9    23.9          23.9
IRRI RICE                                       -     1. 3    2.5   3.86   S.I    6. 4     7. 6    8.9      8. 9     8. 9    8. 9     8. 9     8. S    8.9       8 9
Se.d~ lolal Rain Productjon-  174.9349. 52.669.-744---.    .24 ---1------ --- ---  --.224.   ----22-.  --1.224. 1--.224.   ----22-.  --1.22-.  ----22---
SualtVale.Raif Productimon-  174.9  349.7 524. 6  699.5  874.4 I. 049. 2 1.224. I 1. 224. 1 1. 224. 1 1. 224. I 1. 224. I 1.224.I 1. 224. I  1. 224. I                                     w
Prodution Cost
tOparat wikg
Iiiputs
FERTIIIZER-UIIROGEN (NI                       15. 0   30. I 45. I   60.2   75. 2    90.3   105.3   105 3   105.3   105. 3   105. 3   105.3   105.3    105.3
FERIltIZER-PIIOSPNIOIOUS (P02051          -   13. 1   26.2  39. 3   52. 4   65. 5    78.6    91.7    91. 7    91. 7    91 7    91. 7    SI.?    91. 7    91. 7
SIN/DRINAG  CESS CDIGMS                      -2.   -51.92 -77.9 -103.8 -129.8  -155.7  -136.3  -116. 8   -97.3   -77.9   -58.4   -38.9   - 19.5S             -
Sub-Total Inputs                                  2. 2    4. 4   6.6    8 8   10. 9    13. 1    60. 7    80.2    99.7   119. 2   138. 6   158. 1   177. 6    197 0
S%6-Total Opearating                            -    2. 2    4. 4   6.6    8.8   10. 9    13. 1    60. 7    80.2    99. 7   119.2   138.6   158.1   177.6    197.0
011w. Outflows
COST Of BUTING PIN WATER                    482.0  482.0  482. 0 482.0  482.0  482. 0   482.0   482. 0   482.0   482. 0   482. 0   482. 0   4812. 0   482.0    482.0
DIIIFLONS                                    482. 0  484.2  486.4 488.6  490.8  492.9   495.1I  542.7   562.2   581. 7   601.2   620.6   640. 1   659. 6    679.0
CASNS FLON BEfORE FINANCING                   -482.0 -309.3 -136.6  36. I 208.,7  381.4   554. I   681.4   661.9   642.4   623.0   603.5   584. 0   564.6    545.1I



PAISTAN
SiNeII: SECOND SCARP IRANSITIOI PROJECT
1ABLE  11 SINDH: StALL FARN - PIN OMlER 10.5 CUSEC DISEtl: 3.6 HA farm Model
FINANCIAL B18UDGET
tln Rsi
FY
_1th Project
t        2        3        4        5        6          7       8        9        10 -      it       12-20
Pain Production
cOIONI                                   6. 868. 0  7. 227. 8  7. 596. 7 7.974. 8 8,362.0  8. 758.4  8. 946. 1 9. 133.8  9. 133. 8  9. 133. 8  9, 133. 8  9. 133 8
tHE4AT                                    7. 187. 0  7. 400. 4  7. 616. 5  7. 835. 6  8 05?. 4  8. 282. 1 8.427. 6 8, 573.2  8,573.2  8. 573. 2  8, 573. 2  . 573. 2
FODDER-KH                                   175. 0    178.4    181.8    185.2    188.6    192.0    195.4    198.8    198.8    198.8    198.8    198 8
FODDER-RA                                  585.2    630.5   677. 1   724.9    774.0   824.5    838.9    853.3    853.3    853.3    853.3    853. 3
SUGARCANE                                10.584.0 10.t769.4 10,954.8 11. 140.2 11.325.6 11.511.0 11.596.4 11,881.8 1,U881.8 11,881.8 11,881.8 11.881.8
OItSEeDS                                   272.5    310.0    348.8   388.9    430.3    473.0    482.0    491.0   491 0    491.0    491.0    491. 0
PUtSES 1GRAM1                               661.5    710.7    761.2    812.9    865.8    919.9    933.8   947 7   947. 1    947. 7   947.7    947.7
ORCHARDS IClIRUSI                        2.576.0  2.624.8  2.673.6  2.722.4  2.771.2  2,820.0  2,868.8  2.917.6  2.917 6  2.917.6  2,917.6  2,917. 6
SORGHlUI                                   370.3   376.5    382.7    388.9   395 2    401.4    407.6    413 8    413.8    413.8    413 8    413.8
IRRI RICE                                  430. 8    438. 3   445.9    453.4    461.0   468. 5    476. 1   483. 6   483.6   483. 6    483.6    483. 6
M P n.71.. . 6--.? 3. ---9. .    32,27.-3. 63-. 1 34. 650.8 35.272   3. 894. 6 35. 894. 6.. 35.89.6 35,894..  35,4.6
Met-lotV l Ofin Production                 29.710. 2 30, 666.7 31. 839. 1 32,627.2 33, 631. 1 34. 650.8 35.272. 7 35, 894.6 35,894.6 35. 894. 6 35.894.6 35,894.6
Net Value Of ProWduction                   29, 710. 2 30. 666. 7 31,639.1 32.627.2 33,631.1 34. 650. 835.272 7 35,894.6 35. 894. 6 35,894.6 35.894.6 35,894.6
Other Inf lows
INCONE FRON SELIINC IN MAIER             8. 225. 0  a 225. 0 8. 225. 0 8.225.0  8,225.0  8,225.0  8,225.0  8,225.0  8,225.0  8,225.0  8,225.0  8. 227. a
PIN INCEMTIVES                          16,000.0             -             -                 -         -        -        -        -        -         -I
Sit-lotsl Other InflIes                    24. 225. 0  8.225. 0  8,225.0  8,225.0 8.225. 0  8.225. 0  8.225. 0  8. 225. 0  8 225. 0  8. 225. 0  8. 225.0 8225.0
IMELONS                                  53,935.2 38,891.7 39. 864. 1 40,852.2 41,856 1 42, 875.8 43.497.7 44. 119.6 44. 119.6 44. 119. 6 44, 119.6 44, 119.6
Production Cost
Investmnt
Ttt8ENELL                            36, 475.0        -        -        -        -        -                  -        -        - 29. 180.0        -
Operating
Irouts
COTTON SEED                           181.2    186.2    191.2   196. 3   201.3    206.3    206.3    206.3    206 3    206. 3    206. 3    206.3
fERIItIZER-NITROGEN MlM            1,665.7  1,726.0  1,787.3  1,849.7  1.913 1  1.977. 7 2.018.8  2.059.8  2,059.8  2,059.8  2.059.8  2,059 8
fERIfIIZER-PIIMSPHORDUS IP2051       634. 7    677. 6    721. 7   767.2    814.0   862. 1   900.8    939.5   939.5    939.5    93.5    939.5
FER1ILIZER-POtASSItM  (it)            142.0    146.3    150.7    155.3    160. 1    165. 1    168.5    172.0    172.0    172.0    172.0    172 0
BItLOCK MMRM                      3. 335. 4  3.386. 2  3,436.9  3, 487. 7  3, 538.4  3.589.2  3.589.2  3,589.2  3. 589. 2  3. 589. 2  3. 589.2  3,589.2
TRACTOR NOM                          814. 7   826.7   838.7   850.7   862.7   874. 7   874.7    874. 7    874 7    874.7    874. 7    874. 7
PESFICIDE                          2, 148.0  2. 187.2  2.226.4  2. 265. 6 2, 304.8  2, 344.0  2,344.0  2. 344. 0  2,344.0  2. 344. 0  2.344.0  2. 344.0
CANAI MATER CHARGES                  361. 3    365.8    370.2    374.6   379. 1   383.5    383.5    383.5    383.5    383.5    383.5    383.5
STIWDRIIA.CE CESS C4ARGES            315.2    266.6   216.3    164. 1    110.2    54.5           -        -        -        -
WHEAT SEED                           402.8   406.9    411.0   415.1   419.2    423.4    423.4   423.4    423 4    423.4    423.4    423.4
FOODER-ll SEED                        11.8     11.8     11.8     11.8     11.8     II.8     II.8      II.8     11.8     II.8     11.8      11.8
FODDER-PA SEED                        41.6     44.0      46. 3    48.7     51. 1    53.5     53.5     53.5      53.5     53.5     53.5     53.5
SUGAR SEEO                          1.827. 3  1, 847. 4  1. 867. 5  1,887.5  1,907.6  1, 927.6  1. 947. 7  1. 967. 7  1, 967. 7  1.967. 7  1. 967. 7  1. 967. 7
OILSEEDS SEED                          2.3       2.5      2.8      3.1      3.3      3.6      3.6       3.6      3.6      3.6      3.6      3.6
PUISES SEED                           39.4      41.6     43.9     46. 1    48.4     50.6     50.6     50.6      50 6     50. 6    50. 6    50. 6
ORCHARD SEED                           7.0       7.0      7.0      7. 0     7.0      7.0      7.0       7. 0     7.0      7.0      7.0       7.0
IRRI SEED                              S 9      5. 9     5. 9      5. 9     S 9      5. 9     S 9      5. 9     5. 9      5. 9     S 9      S. 9
Sub-Toltl Irputs                      11.936.3 12, 135.6 12.335.6 12.536.5 12.738.0 12,940.4 12,989. 1 13,092.4 13,092.4 13.092.4 13,092.4 13 092.4
St-lotal Operat ing                     11,936.3 12. 135. 6 12,335.6 12.536. S12,738.0 12. 940 4 12. 9s9. 1 13. 092.4 13.092.4 13, 092 4 13. 092. 4 13. 092.4
Stb-lotal Production Cost                  48,411.3 12,135.6 12,335.6 12.536.5 12,738.0 12,940.4 12,989.1 13,092.4 13,092.4 13.092.4 42,272.4 13.092.4
Other Outflows
PIN OUI cOSt                             8,100.0  8 ,100.0  8. 100. 0  8.100.0  8,100. 0  8,100.0  8,100. 0 8 ,100.0  8, 100. 0  8, 100.0  8, 100. 0  8, 100.0           .l,
-     -    -- -- -   -- -- -   -- -- -   -- -- -   -- -- -   ------ - -- -- -   -- *--- *----- -- --- - -   -- -- -   -------
OUTfItOS                                 56, 511. 3 20.235.6 20,435.6 20.636.5 20. 838.  21. 040.4 21. 089. 1 21. 192.4 21, 192.4 21. 192. 4 50. 372. 4 21. 192.4
CAS4 FILO  BEFORE fiMANCIMG                 -22,576. 1 18,656.2 19,428.4 20.215.7 21,018.0 21,835.4 22.408.5 22,927.1 22.927. 1 22,927. 1 -6.252.9 22,927.1



PAKI SIAN
SINON: SECOND SCARP IRAINSITION PROJECT
TABLE 12   SIMNDH  SlAtt fARM - PIN ON1ER 10 5 CUSEC DISEtil: 3 6 H4A farm Model
FINANCIAL  BUDGET
lIn Rs)
FT
IncrementalI
1        2       3         4        5         6        7         E        9         10        it         12-20
Main Production
COt ION                                            -   212.9    433.5    661 8    897 8  1, 1416  1.274 7  1,407.9  1.407 9  1.407 9   1,407.9  1.407. 9
IINEAT                                             -   182 3    367.4    555.4    748.2    939.8  1 054. 4  1. 168 9  1. 168. 9  1. 168.9   1. 168.9  12 168. 9
FODDER-RH                                          -     2 4      4 8       7 2      9 6      12 0      14.4     16 8      16.8     16.8       16.8     16.8
fOnDFlRRA                                                8 3     17 5      27 6     38 7      50. 6    60.7      70. 8    70 8      70.8       70.8     70.8
SUGARCANE           .                              -   140.0    280 1   420. 1   560.2    700 2    840 2    980 3    980 3    980 3          980.3    980.3
OLSEEOS                                           -    36 2     73.7    1125    152.6    194 1   201 7    209 4    209 4    209.4            209 4    209.4
PULSES IGRA8)                                      -     8 6      18 1     28.5     39.8      52 1     62 5      72.9     72.9      72.9       72.9     72 9
ORCHARDS (CIIRUS)                                  -    34 4     68 8    103 2    137 6    172 0    206.4    240 8    240.8    240.8          240.8    240.8
SORGHU                                             -     4 7      9 3      14.0      18.7     23.3     28.0      32 7     32 7      32.7       32.7     32.7
IRRI RlCf                                         -      5 7     11 5      17 2     22.9      28 7     34 4      40 1    40.1       40. 1     40.1      40. 2
I P c           5    24       .7       .4 2 3.314 4-3.777 5-4,240 6-4.240 6-4.240 6-4-24  6  4,240.6
Sub Iolue Oaf  Production                                 635 5  1.284. 7  1.947 6  2.624. 1 3.314 4  3.777 5  4,240 6  4.240 6  4.240 6   4,240 6  4.240.6
llet Value Of Production                                  635 5  1,284 7  1. 947. 6  2.624. 1 3,314 4  3,777 5  4.240 6  4,240 6  4.240.6   4,240.6  4,240.6
Other Inf ows
INCOME fROI SELLINlG IN HAlER               8.225 0 8,225.0  8.225. 0  8,225.0  8.225.0  8.225 0  8,225 0  8.225 0  8,225 0  8.225.0   8.225.0  8.225.0                              1
PIN INCENTIVES                             16.000.0        -                  -                  .         -        .             -          -         -
------ -     -------    --------     --------    --------    ------- -  -- ----- -  --------  --------  ------- -   ---------  ---- . .  OD0
SublTotal Other Inf lows                      24.225.0 8,225.0  8.225.0  8,225.0  8, 225.0  8,225. 0  8,225.0  8.225.0  8.225.0  8.225.0   8, 225.0  8. 225.0                          Ut
INf tIOS                                    24.225.0 8. 860. 5  9.509. 7 10, 172. 6 10. 849. 1 11,539.4 12, 002.5 12.465 6 12.465.6 12. 465. 6  12. 465 6 12. 465. 6
Production Cost
Investment
TIUBENEtt                               36,475.0        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -         - 29.180.0          -
Operat ng
I nput s
C011CR SEED                                 -     2. 5      S. 0     7.5      10.0      12.6     12.6     12..      12 6      12. 6     12 6      12.6
fERItlIER-NITIROGEN INO                    -    37.7      76.3    115. 7    156.0    197.2    223.9    250.6    250.6    250.6        250. 6    250.6
FERlilIZER-PHOSPIOROUS IP2051               -   22 4       45 9     70 4      96.0    122.6    143.3    164 0    164.0    164.0        164.0    164.0
FERTILIZER-POTASSINUM llt                   -     3.7       7.6     11.6      15.8     20.2      23.6     27.1      27 1    27.1        27. 1    27. 1
BUltOCK IORHK                                    29.5      59 0     88.6    116. 1    147 6    147 6    147.6    147.8    147.6        147.6    147. 6
IRACIOR  OlORt                              -     7. 1     14.2     21. 3    28.4      35.5      35.5     35.5      35.5     35.5       35.5     35.5
PESIICIDE                                   -    22.4      44.8     67.2      89.6    112.0    112.0    112.0    112.0    112.0        112.0    112.0
CANALt  AlER CHARGES                              2.4       4.7      7.2       9.5      11.8     11.8      It.8     22.8      11.8      21.8      22.8
SIN/ORAINIAGE CESS CNARGES                      -28.3    -58.0    -89. 1   -121.7   -255.?   -186.9   -163.5   -140.2   -116.8         -93.4    -70.1
MEAT  SEED                                  -     4. 1      8. 2     12.3     165     20.6       20. 6    20.6      20.6     20.6       20.6     28
OltSEEDS SEED                               -     0.3       0.5      0.8       1.t       .3  t3            1.3       2.3      1.3        1.3       1.3
Stt-lotLa  Inputs                              -   103.9    208.4    313.5    419.3    525.6    545.3    619.5    642.9    666.2          689.6    713.0
Stb-Total fperating                               -   203.9    208.4    323 5    419.3    525.6    545.3    619.5    642.9    666.2          689.6    723.0
Sib-Total Production Cost                     36,475.0   103.9    208.4    313 5    419.3    525.6    545.3    619.5    642.9    666.2  29,869.6    713.0
Other Outflows
PIN OEM  COST                              8. 00.0 8. 100.0  8. 200.0  8. 100.0  8, 100.0  8. 200 0  8,2 00.0  8, 100.0  8. 100.0  8. 100.0   8.100.0  8. 100.0                of
OUTFLOWS                                    44,575.0 8.203.9  8.308.4  8,413.5  8.529.3  8.625 6  8.645.3  8.719.5  8.742.9  8.766. 2  37.969.6  8.813.0                         I
CASH FLOW BEFORE fiNANCING                   -20.350.0   656. 6  1. 201.3  1. 759. 1 2, 329.9  2. 913. 7  3, 357. 1  3. 746.0.  3. 722.7  3. 699. 3 -25.504.0  3.6S2.6             N  1



SIIIOH: SECOND SCUP IRSIIStlOH PR13ECt
tUtE  13   SINDII: tUGt f     - BltilG 118ER: 30 HA form Nbbe
lIifIt W2 Gt
lln gal
FT
with Project
I        2          3         4         S         6          7      8 to20
Rein Production
COTTON                                   41,469 1 42.161. 6  42. 854. 0  43.546. 4  44. 238. 9  44. 931 3  45.623 7 46.316.2
MHEAT                                    51.532.8  52.135.1 52. 737.5  53. 339 8 53.942. I 54.544.5  55. 146 8  55. 749 t
fODDER- lt                                 1.536. 0   1,553. 9   1,571 8   1.589 7   1.607.7   1.625. 6   1.643 5   1.661. 4
FODOER-RA                                 6, 400   6. 918. 8   6.997 6   7.076 3   7. ISS. I  7.233 9   7.312 7   7.391.5
SIJCARCANE                                68. 880.0  69. 600. 0  70. 320 0  71. 040 0  71. 760.   72.480. 0  73. 200 0  73.920 0
OILSEEDS                                   2.242. 1  2.264 3   2.286. 6   2.308 8   2.331. 1  2. 353.3   2,375.5  2. 397.8
PUtSES IGRANI                              5.427.0   5,490.6   5.554.3  5.617.9   5.681 6   5.745 2   5,808.9   5.872 5
ORCHAROS ICIIRUSI                         21.840.0  22.086.9  22.333 7 22.580.6  22.827.4  23.074. 3  23. 321 1 23.568 0
SORGHI                                    3. 395. 7   3. 450. 2   i.504.6   3, 559. 1  3.613.5   3. 668.0   3.722 4   3.776 9
Sb-lotal Rain Product ion                  203. 162.7 205.661.4 208. 160.0 210. 658. 7 213.157. 3 215.656.0 218. 154 6 220.653. 3
Not Value Of Production                     203,162. 7 205,661.4 208. 160.0 210.658. 7 213.157.3 215.656.0 218.154. 6 220.653. 3 
Production Cost                                                                                                                                            G
Oeating
InptsI
COTTON SEED                          1184.0   1. 184.0   1.184. 0   1. 184.0   1. 14.    1.184. 0   1.184 0   1.184 0
FEREIMIIER-1IllROGEIN I1)          11.476.1  11.654.1  11.U32.1  12.010.1  12, 188.2  12.366 2  12.544 2  12.722.2
FERTILIZER-PHOSPHOROUS (P2051       4.818.2   5.005.4   5. 192.6   5.379.8   5.567.0   5.754.2   5.941.4   6.128. 6
FERIlLiZER-POTASSIUH  IHI             831.6      849.6     867.6    885.6      903.6     921.6      939.6     957.6
tULtOCZ WORK                       23 004. 0  23,004.0  23,004. 0  23004. 0  23,004.0  23.004.0  23.004 0  23.004 0
TRACTOR WM                          5.594. 4   5. 594. 4   S.594.4   5.594.4   5.594. 4  5,594.4   5.594. 4   5.594 4
PESI CISE                          14. 160 0  14. 160. 0  14, 160. 0  14. 160.0  14, 160.0  14. 160. 0  14. 160. 0  14. 160 0
CANAL lAtER £11AGES                 2.509.5   2.509. 5   2.509.5   2.SO9.5   2,509.5   2,509.5   2,509.5   2.509.5
STI/DRAINAGE CESS CHARGES           2,227.8   1,856.5   1,485.2   1 113.9    742 6       371.3
WHEAT SEED                          2,822.4  2, 822. 4   2.822 4   2.822. 4   2,822. 4   2.822. 4   2.822. 4   2.822 4
FODOER-RHI SEED                        100.8     100.8     100.8     100.8     10o.8      100.8     100.8     100 8
FODDER-RJ SEED                        445.5    445.5       445.5     445.5     445.5     445.5      445.5     445.5
SUGAR SEEO                         12. 188.5  12,322.2  12,455.9  12,589. 6  12.723.3  12.857. 0  12.990 .8  13. 124 5
ltSEEDS SEEO                           19.5      19.5      19.5      19.5      19.5       19.5      19 5      19.5
PUtSES SEED                           337.4      337. 4    337. 4    337. 4    337. 4    337. 4     337 4     337 4
ORCHARIO SEED                          60.0       60. 0     60.0      60. 0     60.       60 0       60.0      60 0
Sub-totel Inputs                      81.779.7  81.925.4  82.071.0  82.216. 6 82.362.3  82.507.9  82.663.6  83.170.5
Hired tabor
HIRED LABOR                        45 882. 0  46 303. 7  46 725.4  47. 147.   47 568. 9  47 990. 6  48. 412. 3 48.834 0
Sib-lotal Operating                      127. 661.7 128.229. 1 128.796. 4 129. 363.8 129.931. 1 130. 498.5 131. 065. 8 132.004.5
Othew Outflows
cosF Of WUTIING PT7  MArER                4.020.0   4.020.0   4.020.0   4.020.0   4.020 0   4.020.0   4.020.0   4.020.0
OUTIFLOWS                                 131. 681. 7 132, 249. 1 132,816.4 133,383.8 133.951. 1 134.518.5 135085. 8 136,024.5
CASI ftFOl BEFORE fIIANCING                 71,481.0  73.412.3  75.343. 6  77,274.9  79.206. 2  81. 137.5  83.068.8  84,628.8



PAKISTAN
SINOH: SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
TABLE 14   SINOH: IARGE FARM - BUtING WATER: 30 MA Form Model
FINANCIAL. BUDGET
lln Rs)
fY
Incremental
I       2         3        4        5       6        7         8        9        10        t        12       13       14    15 to 20
Pain Production
COTTON                                          -   384.7    769. 4  1, 154. 1 1, 538. 7  1.923 4  2.308. 1 2.692.8  2,692.8  2.692 8  2, 692.8  2.692 8  2.692 8  2.692 8  2. 692.8
IHEAT                                           -   368. 1   736.2  1. 104. 3 1. 472.4  1.840 5  2.208.5  2. 576. 6  2. 576. 6  2.576. 6  2,576. 6  2.576 6  2.576.6  2.576.6  2.516. 6
FODDER-8N                                       -     11.3     22.6     33.9    45.3      56.6     67.9     79.2     79.2      79.2     79.2     79.2     79.2      79.2     79.2
FODOER-RA                                       -    49.5      98.9    148.4   197.9   247.3    296.8    346.3   346.3    346.3    346 3    346.3    346.3    346.3    346.3
SUGARCANE                                            403.2    806.4  1, 209. 6 1. 612. 8  2. 016. 0  2,419.2  2.822. 4  2.822. 4  2,822.4  2.822. 4  2.822. 4  2.822.4  2.822.4  2. 822.4
OILSEEDS                                        -     13.3    26.7      40.0    53.4      66.7     80.1     93.4     93.4      93.4     93.4     93.4     93.4      93.4     93.4
PULSES IGRAMI                                   -    40.5    81 0    121.5   162.0   202.5    243.0   283.5    283.5    283.5    283.5    283.5    283 5    283.5    283.5
ORCHARDS ICITRUSI                               -    152.6   305.1   457.7   610.3    762.9    915.4  1,068.0  1,068.0  1,068.0  1,068.0  1.068.0  1,068.0  1,068.0  ..068.0
SORGHUII                                        -    24.8      49.5     74.3   99.0    123.7    148.5    173.3    173.3    173 3    173. 3    173.3    173. 3    173.3    173.3
M P-      1,44. 9--.3-.9.--3.-,-.   0.. - 35.5 1.--35.5  0..  5.5 -.1.  -.-135.5  O.----.-  --,--3.5 10 135.5
SNb-total Oain Product ion                            1. 447. 9  2,895.9  4. 343. 8 S. 791. 7  7, 239. 6  8, 687. 6 10. 135.5 10. 135.5 10. 135.5 10, 135. 5 10. 135. 5 10. 135. 5 10, 135.5 10. 135. 5
llet llalue Of Productilon                            1, 447. 9  2, 895. 9  4, 343. 8 S, 791. 7  7. 239. 6  S. 687. 6 10, 135.5 10, 135. 5 10, 135. 5 tO, 135. 5 10, 1345. 5 10. 135, 5 10, 135.5 10. 135. 5
Production Cost
Operating
Inputs
FERIIlIZER-NIIROGEN 1NI                   -    82.8    165.6    248.4   331.2    414.0    496.8    579.6    579.6    579.6    5:9.6    579.6    579.6    579.6    579.6
fERTILIZER-PHOSPHOROIS IP2051             -    118. 1   236.2    354.2   472.3   590.4    708.5    826.6    826.6   826.6    826.6    826.6    826.6 826.6    826.6
FERIILIZER-POIASSIUII                           la- 18.0  36.0    54.0   72 0      90.0    108.0    126.0    126.0    126.0    126.0    126.0    126 0    126.0    126.0
SII/DRAINAGE CESS CHARGES                     -212.2   -424. 3   -636.5  -848.7 -1. 060. 9 -1.273.0 -1. 113 9   -954.8  -795. 6   -636.5  -477.4  -318.3   - 159. I      -
Ssb-Fotal Inputs                                    6. 7    13.4    20.1   26.8    33. 5        40.3    418.3    577.4    736.5    89. 6  1, 054.8  1. 213.9  1. 373.0  1,532.2
Hired Labor
HIREO LABOR                                    421.7   843 4  1, 265. 1 1, 686. 9  2,108.6  2,530.3  2.952.0  2,952.0  2, 952. 0  2,952.0  2,952.0  2.952. 0  2.952 0  2,952. 0
Seub-otal Operating                             -   428. 4    856.8  1.285.3 1. 713. 7 2,142.1 2,570. 5  3.370.3  3,529.4  3,688.5  3,847. 6 4.006.8  4. 165 9  4.325.0  4.484. 2
Other OutFlows
COST Of BUYING PilN NATER                 4. 0?A. 0  4.020.0  4,020.0  4, 020. 0 4.020.0  4,020.0  4,020.0  4.020.0  4,020.0  4,020.0  4,020.0  4,020.0  4, 020. 0  4,020.0  4,020.0
OUTfLOllS                                  4.020.0  4,448.4  4,876.8  5,305.3 5,733.7  6. 162. 1  6,590.5  7.390. 3  7,549.4  7.708. 5  7,867.6  8,026.8  8. 185.9  8. 345.0  8,504.2
CASH FLOJ BEFORE FINANCING                  -4.020.0 -3.000.5  1, 981. 0   -961.5    58. 0  1. 077.5  2, 097.0  2,745.2  2, 586. 1 2,4 27. 0  2,267.8  2, 108. 7  1. 949. 6  1, 790. 5  1, 631. 3
F'0



SIumO: SECOND SCR'P 1R*S3illol0 PROJECI
TABLE 15 SIMOH: LARGE f8933 - PIW OMIER 31 CUSEC DIESEt3: 30 NA fare Nodel
fItUUtClI t  BttDGE r
lln Rsl
FT
Withi Pro ject
I         2          3         4          5          6         7          8      9  to  o      1;        12         13  20
Rain Production
COI lOlt                                   48. 960 0  s t,328 7  53. 753 4  56. 234 I 58. 770. 7  61. 363. 2  62. 668 8  63.974 4  63. 974 4  63. 974 4  63.974 4  63.974. 4
MTE3*                                       60.609 6  62. 425 0  64.265 4  66. 131 0  68, 021 6  69.937.4  71. 129 5  72. 321 6  72. 321 6  72. 321. 6  72. 321 6  72. 32! 6
FODDER-ItN                                   3.660 0   3.712 1   1.744 1   . 776.2   1.608 2   1.840 3   1.872 3   1.904 4   1. 904 4   1.904. 4   1.904 4   3.904.4
FOOOFRRA                                     5.700 0   5.809 I   S.9182   6.027.3   6, 1365   6.245 6   6.354 7   6.463.8   6,463.8   6.463 8   6, 463.8   6.463 8
SUGARCANE                                  90. 300 0  91. 353 0  92.406 0  93, 459 0  94.512 0  95.565 0  96. 618 0  97.671 0  97. 671 0  97. 671. 0  97. 671.0  97. 67l. 0
oltSEUoS                                     2.335 5   2.598.9   2.867 7   3,142 0   3.421 7   3.706. 8   3.747 5   3.788 2 3.788 2   3.788. 2   3 788.2   3.788 2
PUL1StS IGR4AN1                              4. 33 3   4.661 0   5. 0162   s. 379 0   s. 49 3   6. 127. 1  6.202 3   6. 277 5   6.277 5   6.277 5   6. 271. s   6, 277. 9
OSC3ARDS ICIIRUS)                           22.560 0  22,988 6  23.417 1 23.845.7  24.274.3  24. 702 9  25. 33 4  25.560 0  25.560 0  2S.S60.0  25.560 0  25.560 0
SORG33113                                    3.088 8   3. 148 2   3.207 6   3.267 0   3,326 4   3.365 8   3 445.2   3.504 6   3.504 6   3.504 6   3. 504.6   3. '4  6
IRRI RICl                                   2.242 8   2.276. 4   2.309 9   2.343 5   2.377 1  2,410.6   2.444 2   2.477 8   2.4778   2.477 8   2,477.8   2.477 8
-a- Po.-o 24.900-248. 300.9254.90   826604.  268.-397.  275.-84  -27  .. 9. ............  ...2... ....43  .2.283,94   ........2 2
SEb-lotal Oafn Production                     241.790 0 248.300.9 254.905 8 261.604.7 268. 397.6 275.284 6 279,613 9 283.943 2 283.943.2 283.943.2 283.943.2 283,943.2 2
Not Value Of Productoon                       24l.790 o 248 300 9 254.905.8 261.604.7 268. l97. 6 275.284.6 279,613 9 283.943 2 283l.943.2 283l.943.2 283.943.2 283.943.2 2
Other lnhlowi
INCOII  IRON SELLING 3tt WAICE              4.100, 0   4,3 00. 0   4. 10G. o   4. 100. 0   4,3 00. 0   4, 300. 0   4, 3000   4,3 00. 0   4.100 0   4.100.    4,30 loc. o   4.100. 0
PIN INCE333VE                               16.0000           - o-                                                                       -         .          -          -
Sub-total Otlher Inflows                       20, 300.0    4100     4100.0   4 100.    4, 100.    4, 00.    4  00.    4 100.    4.100 0   4. 00.    4. 100    4.100 0
IUFLOtS                                    26!. 890.0 252.400 9 259.005.8 265,704.7 272.497.6 279.384.6 283.713 9 288.043.2 288.043 2 288,043.2 28C.043.2 288.043 2 2
Product ton Cost
Inestimnt
1usE33fIL                               37.940 0          -                                                               -          -          -  30,352.0
operating
I nput s
COIOin SEED 0.1345.5   1,377.8   1.410 1                               ,.442.4   1,474.7    ,507 .0   3, 507.0   1507 0   1t507.o0   1.507 0      5.0   1,507.0
*RIIII9 LR-rNIBOGEf  01t            14.229 2  14. 739 1  35.225.!  35, 717 1  16,225 2  16.739 4  17,083 0  37.426.6  17.426 6  17.426 6  3l.426 6  17.426 6
FERl!L3lERl-04PS.R0RUS Ins205         6.239.5   6.526.4   6.836.7   7.330 4   7,407.6   7.708 3   7,931 5   8.354 7   8,154. 7   8. 154.7   8, 54.7   8.354 7
6R3II3 IZER-POIASSIUN Utl               995 4   1. 145. 9   1.299 6   3,4 56. 6   1.616 8   1.7B0 2   1, 929.6   2.079 0   2.079 0   2,019 0   2.079 0   2.079. 0
886 LOCt WORK                        26. 028. 0  26. 362. 8  26. 697. 6  27. 032. 4  27. 367 2  27. 702. 0  27, 702. 0  2t. 702. 0  27. 702.0  27. 702 0  2t. 702 0  27. 702 0
IRACIOR WORt                          6.360 3   6.440 2   6.520 1  6.600 1  6. 680. 0   6,759.9   6, 759. 9   6.759 9   6.759 9   6.7599   6.759 9   6.759 9
PESIICIDE                            16.440.0  36.704 0  16.968 0  17.232.0  17.496 0  17.760 0  37,760 0  37.760 0  17.760 0  37.760 0  17.760.0  17.760 0
CANAL 4A11R ChARGES                   2 868.6   2 896.9   2,925. 1  2.953 4   2.981 6   3.009 9   3.009 9   3,009.9   3,009.9   3.009.9   3.009.9   3.009 9
SIW/ODAIIACE CESS C33ARGfS            2.464 8   2 08!. 7   1.687 4    , 282. 2     865.8     438                       -          -          -
WHEAT*  SEED                          3. 175 2   3.210.5   3.245.8   3.281.0   3,316.3   3,351.6   3,353.6   3.351 6   3.351 6   3 351.6   3 351.6   3.353.6
fOODR-llH SEiD                         #O0. 8     loo.8     0oo 8       00.8      loo. 8     300.8     100.8      300 8 a    100.8     100  loo.  008        100.8
(ODDER-OA SEED                          356 4      356 4     356.4      356.4      356.4     356 4      356 4      356 4     356 4      356.4      356.4      356 4
SUGAR SEED                           15.227.6  35.561 8  15.896 1  16.230 4  16.564.7  36. 899.0  17,233 3  17.567.6  17.567 6  17.567.6  17.567.6  17.567 6
OttSEfOS SlfO                             t9. s     23 4       23 4.     25.3       27.3       29.2      29.2       29.2       29.2      29. 2      29 2       29.2
PUtStS SlIO                             253 t      270 0     286 8      303 7      320 6     337.4      337 4      337 4      337 4     337 4      337 4      337.4
ORC DRD SEED                             60.0       6. 0       60. 0     60. 0      60 0       60. 0     60. 0      60.0       60. 0     60 0       60. 0      60. 0
3IRI SffO                                32 4       32 4      32 4       32.4       32.4      32 4       32.4      32.4       32 4       32 4       32 4      32 4
Sub-lotal Ioputs                        96. 396.2  97.867.9  99.541.4 101.216.5 102,893.4 104,572.0 0l,184.0 106.234.5 106,234 5 106.234.5 106.234.5 IO,234.5 I
Mired labor
tIRiD 1tAOR                          54.810 0  55,903.4  57.002 9  58. 108.6  59. 220.S  60.338 6  60.706 3  61.074. 0  61.074 0  61. 074 0  61. 074. 0  61.074 0
............ ......     ......    ---   ---- ---   -- - - -   -- - - -   -- - - -   ---- ---   -- -- --   -- - - -   -- -- --   -- - - -   -- - - -   . . .
90
Ssb-lotal Operating                        I51.006.2 153,771.3 156,544.3 159,325.2 162. 113.9 164.910.5 165.890. 3 167.308.5 187.308.5 167.308.5 157.308.5 167.308. 5 1
.... .. .. - - - -  .    . ........    ..... ....    .........    .........    .. ......    ........    .   ......    .. . ...    .. . ....    . . . ..    .  t
Sti-lotal Production Cost                     188,946.2 153, 773.3  56544. 3 159.325 2 162, 113.9 164,910. 5 165,890 3 167.308.5 167.308.5 367. 308.5 197.660.5 167.308.5 I
Other Outflows9t
PIN 0Ul COSI                               35.525.0  15. 525 0  35, 525.0  15. 525.0  15.525.0  15.525 0  15, 525.0  3.5525.0  15.525.0  15. 525.0  35,525.0  35,525.0
-- - - -    -- -- --   -- -- --   -- - -  .    . ........    .....-  .........    .........    .. . ......  ....... ..    ....... ... .. .... . ..    .
OuIflOsis                                  204,471.2 169,296.3 172.069.3 174.850 2 177,638.9 180.435 5 181,415 3 382,833.5 182,833.5 182.O'J.5 213.185 S 382,833.5:
CAS4  FLOtO1 61fORE FInN4CING                 57.418.8  83. 104 6  86.936. 5  90.854. 6  94.858. 7  98.949.0 102.298 6 305, 209.7 105.209 7 105.209 7  74.857.7 105.209 7



PARISI"*
PIUMJAB SECOND SCARP IRANSITIUN PAO.81CI
EcONOilIC CASHI Flow
fits. 000)
1991    1992    1993    1994    1999    1996    199?    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004 2009-2006    2001 2008-2010
10811 8fII8IIIIS                                        -121749  23403?  344092  451711  57211?  632121  6955b6  740842  779033  80394?  6817836  824660  624660    824650  624680    624560
COSIS
PWM08C81831 COS15                                   66094  129386  197648  271815  329208  439920  450423  470941 486198  901294  916310  931099  947069  999693    972642  972642    972642
PRIVATE 888 18S1A18AIION                            37719   56695   75?i37   79537   79537   56695                                               32068   48191   64206      64206   46191-
188881C011R19  INPIIOVINIINI                        21202   33942   33304   33304   33304   86692          -        --                                                           -
PUO.J1CI IIPACI ASSISIAICE                           4022    9860    9160    9160    5160    3093          -                -       -        -       -        -       -
CUOUNOWILi( A fUUIRE SCARP IR818S11801  SIuDilS      8229    4876    8747    5029    5648    3773-                                                                                                  -
PRtOJECI I888ACI 196A88*110                          2571     263    1414      193      798    899                                                                                                           co-
PU0O8(CI K*1AGi1N1N CliI                             2860    2298    2258    2298    2298    2298                           -       -        ---                                                             '
SUBIOI*I                                            76603  102494  889420  121481  122698   84424          --                                    32068   48091  64206       64206   46191 
TOTAL COSIS                                        842697  2318660  317068  393796  475499  523944  450423  470941  4566989  508254  586310  563116  595296  624059    636846  620533    572642
"El1 SINEFIlS                                     814269?  8110831  -83038  -49244  -23788   48168  181698  224617  293944  277779  261637  294720  229404  200608    1867682  203627    252088
1808088C *881E Of RETURN  241
NEI PRISINI VA*t101 699884
Niovemer 29. 8990 18. 28



PARIS,.
SlUSH: SECOS SCARP lnI*5919 P95*6!
[COuMIC CASH fLUm
191    1992    1993    99941   1995    3998    399?    1998    3999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004 2005-2006    2007 2008-2010
1031t KEFU! 195                                             9393   30539   4579?   63909   78014  68838   99690  108245  935409  199555  92232   923667  123561    123661  32368  1323667
PRNUCIIIU Oas35                                      9893   98561   27498   3698    41100   57674   57363   5893   60O0    62971   65463   58263   73735   74822            77930   77990       77930
INVEST9VUI £1415:
PRIVATE INI IEST*LtATIN                              no?7  92463   96635   16615   96615   12461           -m  -76    90592   14923                                          34123   30592 
Nb.iECI II9PEHTUIA*933 ASSISIANCC                   2800    3849    3849    3641    3841    2554-                                   --
CAMMNiSi*iR IT 109M  SCARP IMMSJI9ONSIU 3I591        5487    3525    9453      1692    53162    3707       -                ----
P95*FCI INPACI EVAtL*l90N                            2283     263      353     244      263    3970        -       -        --                                                   -       -0
PRSJECI RA9940E9118  CILI                             755     431      431     439      439     439                                                                                
sSnflSai                                            39632   20521   226091  26291   26392   21123          -       -                -        -    7061   9059    94973       94923   10592-
TOTAL1 COSIS                                       2923   3923   50389   63289   73492   78797   57363   58923   60395   62979   65463   75324   82327   8894               92033   8850       77990
HOF  BENEFITS                                      -2923  -23792  -99650  -97484   12303    -783   33475   4068?   47440   52038   54092   47001   49340   34722            3:634   35965      45757
ECUISNIC SATE SF RETII      M8
ofl MUST1K VAIJE --93074
nUo&w- 29. 399 It 29



9*16SIAN
SICOKO ASCP IRAISIIIOI PROJECI
IC    ICIU     CASH 1106
IRS. 000)
6996    1992    6993    6994    6995    :996    6997         I"  198 6*99    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004 2005 2006    2007 2648-2020
bla4t mninus                                                 1 37060  264576  389849  562820  650626  720959  795368  848.387  894042  923602  9401666  94832?  948327    948321  948327    948327
costs
PAOUCI6UI £0515                                      75085  14788$  225646  306803  3999061 497194  507786  529864  547003  564225  586773  599368  668800  634675    650552  650552    650552
WIUSIIKEh £0ST5:
Molviii IN IUStaIAIIAI6                              4602    69656   92652   92652   92652   69656                                                    39622   58783   78329        78329   58783
NA6IALRsi  i*tOviiii                                  26202   33942   33304   33304   33304   16652-                                     --
fl9W1LI 116I6PIIt6   011n6 AI6U 8565111               8822    9006    9006    9006    9006    5607
G1011UA1611  A 9166163  SCAMP IIANSII6U  51160115    63766    1706    3698   60996   60803    7480-
2904Cm  IOWALI IWAIOAWIUn                             48        526    6767       437    6066    3963          -        - 
9904CI UANWAGC43  ClEII                                3665    2689    2669    2689    2689    2689            ---
51310681                                             96235  623015  642666  647774  649060  605547                                                    39622   58783   78329        78329   68783
USUAL 0)565                                         172220  270902  367257  456577  548966  602746  507786  529864  547003  564225  586773  638440  677583  723004    728811  709335    6505652
Nil SIUEFIIS                                       -17222  -633843 -602886  -66728  -36006   47385  263673  265304  306384  32981?  346129  306726  270744  235323    269445  _238992    297775
(COMIC muI  Of  fQ11 3I   241
iNO MsSIuy  VAtUE   752959
Uowedr 29. 6990 38 28



PAKISTAN-PROPOSED SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
PUNJAB SUB-PROJECT
Prolect Organization 8 Coordination Among Existing Agencies
Ptel  Dof UCo DbU
Citial              ._ 'a                  wE
GFM. (Opera* sA PDA|Member)
General UMnager ADBP (Mentor)
Pabpc Okocr PMC (Secsetaqy)
_ _._.__~-------j ---
___Pro____       ma_a__ _t__es_                                                              District Administration
P    td AreawC o            _                          Pr e         rE  SCAtP - I)
GW E~~~~nsk" Fabdd-VA (Chak-)  De"  Mectw TochnNA  ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    Dpriy Cmmissioners (4)
pi    De-craohr PaG ......... _*r ___ --                                                                                   _ra. Gtrranwafa
Rgmel Maugei AIDBP                                  A,qId,Z M                                                                                  aisatabad. Jhong
Ii _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _
D      qea                         n                   I _ t                    PFUS (3 Nod.)                                        Area Elet. Soad            Reyenu. Office                  "
171~dw ooctor       A.  Co* Hrio              :WZ jW)                     Regional Managers (4)       Chief Engineers (2)       Assistant
Officer                                    Stid-OMsRoneiOfr            Branch Managers             Gu     ala and            Cornrnssioners
&Xt El_S FCldXbslnt   SConsuarat Stalt               FUCOsaMCOs                  Fa=salabad                Tehsilders
. . . . .~~~--              ConEX.=.  ..                                                                                                  ._ Patwaris
*   hrvment d             * TlI d Suff               a        m    a,          eCarryirn out TW-To-TW      a Provision of TW          a Provision of TW          * issuance d pass
C..and D. k                 Tweys                                                                           and Protucti                Connections to            books to Farrs
in do lCR4 p^* h                                             tb                       am  sh               on                        Powr Released
wider die ISRP4U                                     e Amnnganwit W             geo"n:                    * Provision of advloS        from STWVs
* hl to F * V"'                   P-S    4       i  b.                   W on TW  ehnologyfrmSW
inb EttnWonStff                                  Pisloka                   to Farmwrs
*S0. VpcTW                   bA.oerSWs                  *v            on           Ta-To-lW SGuy
pkots                            7w Tod"XdM &                a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nd Provisio o
PW  oat                     Bl8bnk pass books
*U," ghOF
end Eaeni  for
organizing Traing
*Mnlrln Ground
Watr Tabl andi
Cfttg Prworess
Ofrc Line of Administration
Hoszotal Coordnd          ....
Vertil Coordnaton



PAKISTAN-PROPOSED SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
SIND SUB-PROJECT
Project Organization & Coordination Among Existing Agencies
P,ovkm:Wa Policy Comnitte
SND   b    q!_        ~~~ACDS P & D (ChWman
6~~Te Am Ld      (er) ier)
Chlem              . ..  SiF n.}m 
~~~~~~~~__________-_ ___________________________________I
C h i of E t ifl h~ WA t SD AA*(A                                          Land
F _  Plabd mana"r    cam                                        G    E        Dist  Adrntsc4trtn
Cmt E1: HI    (Chak-)                               Dfinical W                                                                     Op   Commnissiorno e20
W1Wfr4                         ...... ....._. ."                                          C=S___,,,...hauherFeoz
atas                                              S     t                                        tConnectionto                                    ks to MPIIact Evaluatin Studies
- }                                     |                _               bde~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Opondent Organizationi
_                   - ._ .           P*ct F *   Unit               ADBP                    WAPDA.
0 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I _                                        PU                                           Area Ebt Boad            Rownue Otl                   @
di,                      Ana _ ColdDroXEN                                R qgon ans Reeased                               Assistant
EFEnp_ Flsid ~~~~~~~~~~~FbT*                                Su41fslnl                eBvanch maprse                                   Coimurrssixrnrs
. SuIimg.patlW .   _ . .    Con                .WogiWst.                                                                   Pas*anb
*  h _  d   * TrSlnil         @   _     t ct            and~~~~~~~~~~~~ onl St1W   *- oPaivibnodT7W     * Pnzvision o' TW       *i ssuao d pss
Demomb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~an~Lon
Ch ard Dnh   h TW              WSr~~~~~~~1 Cowsn                               BIaNp rnd s badutn       Cnitrn obDk o a
hd Prec                *A1gF__s                         T                  _1aloaefromSTWsm
* AMoW I* Fairm                                                          *ovisiona      n,         from S7WUas n_,  WM
dod Exlenslon bor
"oa-.z4cg Trinhhg
-'ft            i       PWa;Ti  & d          P
~~~~A d~~~~~~~~~                                       *Rep~~~~~~~~~'Foato Plak psseook
Oiwet ~ ~   ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       . Eq  S _4     li  = S  
Vertical Coouingn                                                                                                                                                                   C



- 94 -
CHART 
PAKISTAN
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PROJECT YEARS (PY)%
COMPONENT                PYl      PY2       PY3       PY4      PYS       PY6       TOTAL
--------------------------------  _--------  _-_______- ________- _______--_________- _____
PRIVATE 1W INSTALLATION    10       20    |  20         20       20        10        100
WATERCOURSE IMPROVMT.  20           30        30        20                           100
PROJ IMPLEMENTATION CONS.               CONTINUING ACTIVITY                          100
GROUNDWATER STUDIES        10       25        25        25       15                  100
PROJ IMPACT EVALUATION               BASELINE SURVEYS/CASE STUDIES                   100
PROJ MANAGEMENT CELL                     CONTINUING ACTIVITY                         100
TRAINING                   20       30        30        20                           100
PROCUREMENT:
- VEHICLES               30       70                                               100
- EQUIPMENT              30       70                                               100
- OFFICE FURNITURE       30       70                                               100
-                       . _============== = -===:===== ====-  =====  =55==:--==A 



MAP SECTION



P A K I S T A N
SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT AREAS
I S LA M I C R E P U B L I C
0 F                                                                                                                                                                                                         EJ
I   R   A   N
u S S R
It
A F G H A N  S T A N
C,
Kh-,                                                                          V
111F,
IF 0I    C
AIIJ
C                     A                    P        0            N
A
SRINAGAk
D- Gh- KI,-                                                       t
M-%,
R        0   V
b
shi
Kh-'
N-bA.h
IAZRF
'XARACHI
p   R         v
I0i
51.
Th.H.
MIr
N     D      I      A
L
OF
"N
V
1-N
"4KISTAN
:Z=
CHtNA



Nousharo
Feroze
0
P A K I S T A N
To Nausharo                                          SECOND SCARP TRANSITION PROJECT
SINDH SUB-PROJECT AREA
DEPTH OF WATER TABLE (APRIL 1989)
AND GROUNDWATER QUJAI ITY
GROUNDWATER QUALITY:
rn-_\ Y _  Safe water quality zones
ID}  \       Safe to marginal water quality zones
Z]Marginal water quality zones
El]/ 0    ,Marginal to hazardous water quality zones
^  /   \  m    Hazardous water quality zones
X   \  HIGHLY                                         L       No information avoilable
CX            \   ~~~~SALINE
WATER TABLE DEPTH (ft)    7       AREAS IN
THAR                   OCTOBER 1988            I THOUSAND ACRES: I
DESERi-- -- -                                  4    -                   --
] X    2   \  z Less than 5 feet    7.72            2.37
' 5- IOfeet                80.44           24.70
10- 15feet                 73.17           22.40|
1I  ,.IGreater than 15feet        164.43           50.471
__\__         TOTAL         325.76           100.00
t < - - <  t   0  2   4    6         Direction of ncaturai groundwater movement
1   V        <                        MILES                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Depth to wcrter table
v O R o        w     '                            I    A'-A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Cross sections
[X>4X><//8 . | 4 Proted~~~~~~~~~~~~~ boundary
{{T  '\   \ \             - 9       °~~~~~~~ Cifies and towns
XCy                  0 = +                                 I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railronds
f _ W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Khairpur
ho. ,oho.od  oo.  Tho eo.l4 hk W cmd8 11_ o,                                             -3
ho wmwk °d*ihoogdo,,d h.,o,o.cn,pr ,
or my . ndo,o  ho jg   tho 0* .0y . b  dm-



IBRI) 22530
I'' I    A N
SECOND SC(ARP TRANSITION PROJECT
_PIJNJAB3 SBU  PROJE('T AREA
L)I-P1 H OF WATE-R TABLE (APRIL 1989)
AND (ROLJNDWAI ER QUALITY
\?-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A )t 'N t%<I)tl\.,l 1' (JIJAI IN
\   \     /   ,,-L  /    ,                                                                                        i         ., . | . I X * ., t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tYe,  i . .,n -r i;<>
\              _                               ~~~~~~~~~~~Khanqah  /
Dogr-on 0       /          9                                                VAl I R MM1 IDl PI.''        1013L1  19811
Les. "'-' ,t tet''
J   e' ,nj "' 0 lee,
RECLAMAI ION SCHILMA AREAS
NJ.           NA/AL    flNo  NAmE
Rind' Bhott:a,t   7 Zctfot tal
2  Ct"c hok. Mali'a'  11i ficzat'nd
3  / \.hLa'! kala     9 Khanqah DogiL)nt
4 its1 alICtIILI     10 Sctnglo Hill
ft) S'//hkat             Re, _nwai \L
6  S /taS'xtn        1 ? Ha' se Ste, kh
DU,ecton of not,tal
Cancals
DIst' rc Boundcaies
Js   LLn,t Boundcai,es
/ 0_ > CIt;es and towns
-     Rcii ouds
0    2 4   6
MILES
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    ..   .. .. .. .   ..Jrow    



