Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2257 PAK
                 (Second SCARP Transition Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               and
                        PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
                                and
                         PROVINCE OF SINDH
                        Dated July 31, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2257 PAK
                    PROVINCES PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1991, among INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and PROVINCE OF
PUNJAB acting by its Governor (Punjab) and PROVINCE OF
SINDH acting by its Governor (Sindh).
      WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million eight
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,800,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Punjab and
Sindh (collectively, the Provinces) agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Provinces, in consideration of the
Page  2
Association's entering into the Development Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) The Provinces declare their
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out their activities under the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative, financial, engi-
neering and irrigation practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for
their activities under the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Associa-
tion and the Provinces shall otherwise agree, the
Provinces shall carry out their activities under the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Provinces shall, for the purposes of their
respective activities under the Project, open and
maintain in dollars special deposit accounts in the
National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the special accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and consultant-
s' services required for the purposes of the Provinces'
activities under the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Provinces shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and sched-
ules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi-
tion, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and the activities to be carried out by the Provinces
under the Project.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Provinces shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the
Association with regard to the progress of their activi-
ties under the Project, the performance of their obliga-
tions under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
Page  3
      (b)   The Provinces shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threat-
ens to interfere with the progress of their activities
under the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the Provinces of their
obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                   Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Provinces shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices their operations and
financial condition in respect of their activities under
the Project.
      (b)   The Provinces shall:
            (i)   have their records and accounts including
                  those for the Special Accounts for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consis-
                  tently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
          (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon
                  as available, but in any case not
                  later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts as well as the audit thereof, as
                  the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, each Province shall:
      (a)   with effect from July 1, 1991, offer to farmers
in its Project Areas a PTW incentives package which shall
incorporate features satisfactory to the Association
including the features set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement; and
      (b)   thereafter, through annual reviews, closely
monitor the continuing impact of such incentives package,
focussing particularly on the amount of, and the level of
funding available to finance, the cash incentives and
their effectiveness in enabling the small farmers to
procure and install PTWs, and furnish the findings of
such reviews to the Association for its concurrence.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Provinces shall, with respect to
their respective Project Areas, enter into arrangements
with WAPDA satisfactory to the Association under which
WAPDA shall, subject to directives issued by the Borrower
pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of the Development
Credit Agreement, (a) provide electrical connections at
cost and on a timely basis to farmers wishing to install
electric-powered PTWs under Part A of the Project, and
(b) to that end, reserve the power capacity released as
a result of the closing of STWs in each outlet command
(deh or chak) for PTWs to be installed in such outlet
command.
Page  4
      Section 3.04. The Provinces shall make timely and
adequate budgetary allocations for meeting the agreed
targets under ISRP II for O&M of STWs in the SGW areas of
their respective Project Areas.
      Section 3.05. The Provinces shall carry out the
necessary rehabilitation and remodelling works on the
irrigation and drainage systems located in their respec-
tive Project Areas under ISRP II, giving priority to
improving: (a) surface water deliveries in the outlet
commands (dehs or chaks) where STWs are currently the
main source of irrigation water; and (b) the surface
drainage facilities for effluent disposal from STWs that
are pumping SGW for subsurface drainage.
      Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, Punjab shall recover from farmers, in 6
equal six-monthly installments over a period of three
years with no grace period, 30% of the cost of construc-
tion materials provided to them for the renovation of
watercourses under Part B of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Association and of the Provinces thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance
                  with its terms; or
           (ii)   the date 20 years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
in accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify the Provinces of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding
any cancellation or suspension under the General Condi-
tions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
Page  5
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INDEVAS                     197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
      For Punjab:
            The Chairman
            Planning and Development Board
            Government of Punjab
            Lahore, Pakistan
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  DEVELOPMENT                82-04-4868
                  Lahore                     Punjab Secretariat
                  Pakistan                   Lahore, Pakistan
      For Sindh:
            The Additional Chief Secretary (Development)
            Planning and Development Department
            Government of Sindh
            Karachi, Pakistan
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  DEVELOPMENT                SINDH 952-23950
                  Karachi, Pakistan
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Provinc-
es, or by the Provinces on behalf of the Borrower under
the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the persons specified in Section 2.09 of the
Development Credit Agreement or such other person or
persons as they shall designate in writing, and they
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                  PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
                  PROVINCE OF SINDH
Page  6
                  By /s/ Arshad Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Cement may be procured following the usual proce-
dures of Punjab satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Brick, sand, gravel and precast concrete outlet
structures (pucca nuccas) and slabs may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Reinforcement steel bars, PVC and concrete pipes and
plastic sheets may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association.
4.    Except as provided in paragraph 5 below, office and
project monitoring equipment may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Office and project monitoring equipment, estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $500 per item, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from
a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
6.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Guide-
lines" means the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement
Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works
materials (other than cement) and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Associa-
tion pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)    With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
Page  7
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of
the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (c)     The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Provinces in (a) carrying out
and in monitoring and evaluating the Project, (b)
carrying out hydrogeological studies and (c) preparing
future SCARP transition projects, the Provinces shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association. Such consultants  shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
A.    Institutional Arrangements
1.    Project Agencies
      (a)   The Provinces shall have overall responsibility
for the carrying out of the Project in their respective
Project Areas which they shall discharge through their
respective PIDs.
      (b)   Responsibility for providing credit under Part
A of the Project shall be assigned to ADBP.
      (c)   Punjab shall carry out Part B of the Project
through its OFWM Directorate.
2.    Provincial Irrigation Departments (PIDs)
      (a)   Project Management Cells (PMCs)
            (i)   A Project Management Cell (PMC) shall
                  have responsibility for the day-to-day
                  carrying out and coordination of Project
                  activities within each PID.
           (ii)   Each PMC shall be headed by a Project
                  Director (PD) who shall be, in the case
                  of Punjab, the Superintending Engineer of
                  the SCARP -I Circle, and, in the case of
                  Sindh, the Project Director of SCARP
                  North Rohri Project. The Punjab PD shall
                  report to the Chief Engineer of his SCARP
                  Circle and the Sindh PD shall report to
                  the Chief Engineer, PID (Hyderabad). Each
                  PD shall be assisted by his existing
                  staff and, in the case of the Punjab PD,
                  some incremental staff.  To that end,
Page  8
                  upon completion of the Association-fi-
                  nanced SCARP Transition Pilot Project
                  (Credit 1693 PAK), the staff assigned to
                  the Project Management Office for that
                  project shall be assigned to the office
                  of the Punjab PD. Each PD shall also have
                  the support and assistance of the project
                  consultants. Each PD shall, in addition
                  to his responsibilities as such, perform
                  the function of secretary to the PPC for
                  his Province.
          (iii)   Each PMC shall be responsible specifical-
                  ly for: (aa) conducting TW-to-TW surveys
                  through PFUs; (bb) maintaining close
                  coordination with all project implement-
                  ing agencies, including ADBP, WAPDA and
                  the OFWM Directorate, monitoring prog-
                  ress, facilitating project implementa-
                  tion, and functioning as the secretariat
                  to the PPC for its Province; (cc) re-
                  cruiting and supervising project consul-
                  tants and coordinating training programs;
                  (dd) carrying out ground water quality,
                  modelling and soil/water management stud-
                  ies; (ee) delivering the cash and other
                  incentives through PFUs to farmers wish-
                  ing to install PTWs; (ff) preparing and
                  submitting for review by the Association
                  annual work plans by September 30 in each
                  year, the consolidated quarterly progress
                  reports on project activities referred to
                  in Part D of this Schedule, and Part I of
                  the Project Completion Report required to
                  be prepared pursuant to the provisions of
                  Section 9.06 (c) of the General Condi-
                  tions; (gg) maintaining project accounts
                  and preparing withdrawal applications for
                  submission to the Association; and (hh)
                  carrying out project impact evaluation
                  studies.
      (b)   Project Field Units (PFUs)
            (i)   Each PMC shall assign responsibility for
                  Project implementation at the field level
                  to Project Field Units (PFUs). In Punjab,
                  there shall be three PFUs, and, in Sindh,
                  one PFU, each headed by an Executive
                  Engineer. The PFUs shall be assisted by
                  existing divisional staff and the project
                  consultants.
           (ii)   The PFUs shall be responsible, inter
                  alia, for: (aa) carrying out TW-to-TW
                  surveys on assignment from their respec-
                  tive PMCs; (bb) facilitating issuance of
                  APBs to farmers by establishing close
                  contact with DAOs for this purpose; (cc)
                  assisting farmers in obtaining credit
                  from ADBP for PTWs; (dd) assisting farm-
                  ers in securing electrical connections
                  for PTWs from WAPDA; (ee) advising farm-
                  ers on appropriate TW technology, includ-
                  ing selection of appropriate equipment
                  for, and location of, PTWs; (ff) main-
                  taining liaison with agricultural exten-
                  sion and OFWM staff for establishment of
                  demonstration plots and implementation of
                  training programs; (gg) monitoring groun-
                  dwater table and quality; and (hh) re-
                  porting progress to their respective PMCs
Page  9
                  and acting as the secretariat to their
                  respective PACCs.
3.    Punjab OFWM Directorate
      (a)   The Punjab OFWM Directorate shall operate
within the Punjab PAD and shall be responsible, inter
alia, for:
            (i)   planning, designing, laying out and in-
                  specting all civil works;
           (ii)   ensuring that civil works construction
                  meets agreed criteria and specifications;
          (iii)   verifying quantity and quality of
                  completed civil works;
           (iv)   preparing and submitting withdrawal
                  applications to the Association
                  through the Punjab PMC;
            (v)   organizing, registering, training,
                  and assisting WUAs;
           (vi)   organizing training courses for extension
                  staff in TW water management and soil and
                  water management techniques;
          (vii)   establishing, in cooperation with the
                  Directorate General of Agricultural Ex-
                  tension (DGAE), of demonstration plots;
         (viii)   procurement of equipment and materials;
           (ix)   preparing annual work plans by March
                  1 of each year as input to the con-
                  solidated project annual work plan;
                  and
            (x)   submitting quarterly and annual
                  progress reports to the Punjab PMC
                  within 30 days of the close of each
                  reporting period.
      (b)   The Punjab OFWM Directorate shall increase the
number of OFWM field teams working in the Punjab Project
Areas to five. The OFWM field teams shall be responsible
for the planning, design and construction of all water-
course improvements, and shall, in particular, work
closely with the PFUs during the TW-to-TW surveys so as
to encourage WUAs or farmer groups either to convert and
take over existing STWs or to install new PTWs jointly.
4.    District Administration (DA)
      The DA in each Project Area shall be responsible for
the issuance of APBs to farmers. To that end, each DA
shall: (a) under directive from the PPC concerned,
undertake district-wise campaigns to issue APBs to
farmers, entering, for this purpose, into the arrange-
ments with ADBP, referred to in paragraph 2 of the
Schedule to the ADBP Project Agreement, for the verifica-
tion of land records; and (b) solicit and receive from
the PFUs and FMCOs/MCOs lists of farmers desirous of
obtaining APBs.
5.    Project Coordination
      (a)   Project Area Coordination Committees
            (i)   In each Project Area, responsibility for
Page  10
                  coordinating Project activities shall be
                  assigned to the Project Area Coordination
                  Committee (PACC).
           (ii)   In the Punjab Project Area, the PACC
                  shall be chaired by the Chief Engineer
                  (Faisalabad), PID, and shall include, as
                  members, the PD of the Punjab PMC, the
                  heads of the PFUs, one of whom shall be
                  the Secretary to the PACC, the Superin-
                  tending Engineers of PID responsible for
                  canal water distribution in the Project
                  Area, the Superintending Engineers of
                  WAPDA's Area Electricity Boards (AEBs) at
                  Grujranwala and Faisalabad, Regional
                  Managers of ADBP in the Project Area, the
                  Deputy Director of Agriculture in the
                  Project Area, the OFWM Area Coordinator,
                  farmers' representatives, and DAOs con-
                  cerned.
          (iii)   In the Sindh Project Area, the PACC shall
                  be chaired by the Chief Engineer, PID
                  (Hyderabad), and shall include, as mem-
                  bers, the PD of the Sindh PMC, the heads
                  of the PFUs, one of whom shall be the
                  Secretary to the PACC, the Superintending
                  Engineer, PID, responsible for canal
                  water supplies in the Project Area, the
                  Superintending Engineer of WAPDA's Area
                  Electricity Board (AEB) at Hyderabad,
                  ADBP's Regional Managers for Nawabshah
                  and Naushero Feroze districts, the Deputy
                  Director of Agriculture in the Project
                  Area, the OFWM Area Coordinator, farmers'
                  representatives, and DAOs concerned.
           (iv)         Each PACC shall meet at least once
                        every three months, and more fre-
                        quently if so required.
      (b)   Provincial Policy Committees
            (i)   In each Province, a Provincial Policy
                  Committee (PPC) shall have responsibility
                  at the provincial level to provide over-
                  all policy guidance and supervision.
           (ii)   Each PPC shall be chaired by the head of
                  the Province's Planning and Development
                  establishment, and shall include, as
                  members, the Secretaries of PID, PAD and
                  FD, the General Manager/Executive Direc-
                  tor, ADBP, the General Managers (Opera-
                  tions) or the Chief Engineers of WAPDA's
                  AEBs concerned, and the DAOs concerned.
                  The PD of the Provincial PMC concerned
                  shall be the secretary to each PPC.
          (iii)   Each PPC shall meet at least once every 6
                  months, and more frequently, if so re-
                  quired.
B.    Watercourse Improvement
1.    Water Users Associations (WUAs)
      (a)   As a condition of obtaining financial assis-
tance for the improvement of watercourses under Part B of
the Project, farmers shall be required to form WUAs at
each outlet command (deh or chak).
Page  11
      (b)   WUAs shall be primarily responsible for: (i)
providing labor required for purposes of construction
and/or renovation of watercourses; (ii) assuring that the
cost recovery charges they shall be expected to pay are
only those for materials supplied and actually used in
construction of works; and (iii) O&M of newly constructed
and/or renovated watercourses and any jointly-owned PTWs.
      (c)   WUAs shall also be encouraged to assume
additional responsibilities, inter alia, for: (i)
undertaking OFWM work on farm branches and field ditches;
(ii) participating in the process of water allocations
within and for the watercourse command; (iii) organizing
federations to participate in O&M and water allocation
decisions relating to minors and distributaries; (iv)
installing surface drains within the watercourse command;
(v) facilitating distribution of non-water inputs; and
(vi) participating in the development and utilization of
findings obtained from OFWM demonstration plots.
2.    Civil Works Criteria
      (a)   Selection of Watercourses. In selecting the
watercourses for improvement under Part B of the Project,
and in determining the length of lining and other
improvements for such watercourses, the Punjab OFWM
Directorate shall use, or cause to be used, criteria
satisfactory to the Association. Specifically, such
criteria shall provide for priority to be given for this
purpose to those watercourses where WUAs or other farmer
groups are prepared to assume joint responsibility for
pumping water from existing STWs which have been convert-
ed and/or transferred to them or for installing new PTWs.
      (b)   Designs and Specifications. In carrying out the
civil works under Part B of the Project, the Punjab OFWM
Directorate shall use, or cause to be used, designs and
specifications satisfactory to the Association.
      (c)   Additional permanent (pucca) improvements.
Financial assistance for additional permanent improve-
ments on watercourses shall be available where farmers
have rehabilitated farm branches and field ditches and/or
where less costly technology has been selected by WUAs
for such improvements.
C.    Training Program
      A consolidated training program shall be prepared by
each Province for the purposes of Part C.3 of the Project
on the basis of the requirements stated by PAED, the OFWM
Directorate and ADBP and furnished through the PMC
concerned to the Association for concurrence not later
than December 31, 1991.
D.    Reporting Requirements
      Pursuant to Section 9.06 of the General Conditions,
the Provinces shall, not later than forty-five (45) days
after the end of each quarter, beginning with the quarter
ending September 30, 1991, furnish to the Association,
through their respective PMCs, progress reports on their
respective activities under the Project, all in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                 Incentives Package referred to in
                  Section 3.02 of this Agreement
      In order to encourage participation by farmers in
PTW installation under Part A of the Project and to
Page  12
enable the successful carrying out of Part A of the
Project, the Provinces shall in their respective Project
Areas:
1.    Phase out public sector water pumpage in FGW areas
in keeping with the Project implementation schedule
through (a) non-replacement of deteriorated STWs, and (b)
conversion and transfer of existing STWs to farmers
and/or termination and replacement of STWs by new small-
capacity PTWs to be installed by farmers.
2.    Provide a cash incentive to farmers wishing to
install PTWs in an amount of Rs. 16,000 per TW.
3.    Arrange for all qualifying farmers institutional
credit (through ADBP) to cover up to 90% of the total
cash investment cost of installing a PTW (including the
cost of the electrical connection) not covered by the
cash incentive referred to in paragraph 2 above.
4.    Arrange (through WAPDA) for the provision on a
timely basis and at cost of electrical connection lines
to farmers wishing to install electric-powered PTWs.
5.    Remit the double water charges (in the Punjab
Project Areas) and the drainage cess (in the Sindh
Project Areas) in favor of farmers who have installed
PTWs.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(2), (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expendi-
tures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in
respect of Punjab, an amount equivalent to $700,000 to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Punjab Special Account; and in respect of Sindh, an
amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Sindh Special
Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Sched-
ule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satis-
factory to it that a Special Account has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the relevant Authorized Allocation
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such Special
Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
Punjab or Sindh, as the case may be, shall furnish to the
Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
Page  13
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of Punjab or
Sindh, as the case may be, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as Punjab or Sindh, as the case may be, shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  Punjab or Sindh, as the case may be,
                  shall furnish to the Association requests
                  for deposits in the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall
                  specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                  request, Punjab or Sindh, as the case may
                  be, shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required
                  pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                  for the payment or payments in respect of
                  which replenishment is requested. On the
                  basis of each such request, the Associa-
                  tion shall, on behalf of Punjab or Sindh,
                  as the case may be, withdraw from the
                  Credit Account and deposit into the Spe-
                  cial Account such amount as Punjab or
                  Sindh, as the case may be, shall have
                  requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have
                  been paid out of the Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by Punjab or Sindh, as the
case may be, out of a Special Account, Punjab or Sindh,
as the case may be, shall, at such time as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association
such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required to
make further deposits into a Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
Punjab or Sindh,as the case may be, directly from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the parts of the
Project for which Punjab or Sindh, as the case may be, is
responsible, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
such parts of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories for such parts of the Project
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to Punjab or Sindh, as the case may be.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in such
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
Page  14
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
Punjab or Sindh, as the case may be, shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association in
the Special Account shall be made until Punjab or Sindh,
as the case may be, has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in a Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, Punjab or Sindh, as the case may
be, shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   Punjab or Sindh, as the case may be, may, upon
notice to the Association, refund to the Association all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
