Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2257 PAK
                 (Second SCARP Transition Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
             AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
                        Dated July 31, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2257 PAK
                      ADBP PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1991, between INTERNATION-
AL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGRICUL-
TURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN (ADBP).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of
even date herewith between the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Associa-
tion has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 14,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condi-
tion that ADBP agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ADBP, a portion of the
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Page  2
Credit Agreement will be made available to ADBP on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS ADBP, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the Development Credit
Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                Execution of Part A of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) ADBP declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end,
shall carry out its activities under Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in confor-
mity with appropriate administrative, financial, engi-
neering and agricultural credit practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for its activities under Part A of the
Project.
      (b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ADBP shall on-lend the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it to farmers to finance PTWs under Part A of
the Project under its usual terms and conditions applica-
ble to credit for tubewells and other private minor
irrigation, which shall include a mark-up on the princi-
pal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding at a
rate to be set by ADBP as of July 1 of each year pursuant
to the obligations assumed by ADBP under the Bank-
financed Agricultural Credit Project (Loan Number 3226-
PAK), and a repayment period of eight (8) years including
a grace period of two (2) years.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Associa-
tion and ADBP shall otherwise agree, ADBP shall carry out
its activities under Part A of the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in the Sched-
ule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the equipment and parts required for
installation of PTWs under Part A of the Project and to
be financed by ADBP out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured by farmers through normal commercial
channels.
      Section 2.03. ADBP shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
Page  3
tively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of
the Project.
      Section 2.04. ADBP shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, ADBP shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) ADBP shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of its activities under Part A of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   ADBP shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of its activities under Part A of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by ADBP of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
      Section 2.06. ADBP shall, not later than December 31
in each year, jointly with the Association, review the
appraisal and lending standards and procedures applied by
ADBP in providing credit for PTWs under Part A of the
Project and make such adjustments therein as may be
warranted by the findings of such review.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) ADBP shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial
condition in respect of its activities under Part A of
the Project.
      (b)   ADBP shall:
            (i)   have such records and accounts for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consis-
                  tently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than
                  nine months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such de-
                  tail as the Association shall have rea-
                  sonably requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Association such
                  other information concerning said
                  records and accounts as well as the
                  audit thereof, as the Association
                  shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Page  4
Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Association and of ADBP thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance
                  with its terms; or
            (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates
in accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify ADBP of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding
any cancellation or suspension under the General Condi-
tions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or
permitted to be given or made under this Agreement and
any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For ADBP:
            Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
            One Faisal Avenue
            P.O. Box 1400
            Islamabad, Pakistan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  AGRIFIN                   5618
                  Islamabad
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ADBP, or by
ADBP on behalf of the Borrower under the Development
Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the
Chairman or such other person or persons as the Chairman
Page  5
shall designate in writing, and the Chairman shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PAKISTAN
                  By /s/ Arshad Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                      Implementation Program
1.    Staffing Requirements. ADBP shall ensure that the
full complement of FMCOs required in the Project Areas is
in place not later than December 31, 1991.  All FMCOs
assigned to the Project Areas shall receive formal and
on-the-job training under Part C.3 (b) of the Project.
ADBP shall prepare a training program for FMCOs for
inclusion in the consolidated training program to be
furnished through each PMC to the Association pursuant to
the provisions of Part C of Schedule 2 to the Provinces
Project Agreement.
2.    Issuance of Agricultural Pass Books (APBs). ADBP
shall, with the cooperation of the DA in each Project
Area acting pursuant to the provisions of paragraph A.4
of Schedule 2 to the Provinces Project Agreement, not
later than June 30, 1992, make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Association, for the expeditious verification of
land records through DAOs (patwaris or tappadars) so as
to facilitate the issuance of APBs to farmers in the
Project Areas.
