Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2257 PAK
                 (Second SCARP Transition Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 31, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2257 PAK
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1991, between  ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its President (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Provinc-
es of Punjab and Sindh (the Provinces) and the Agricul-
tural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Provinces and
ADBP the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
Page  2
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even date
herewith between the Association and the Provinces and
between the Association and ADBP;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a
political sub-division of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto;
      (b)   "Sindh" means the Province of Sindh, a politi-
cal sub-division of the Borrower, or any successor
thereto;
      (c)   "Provinces" mean Punjab and Sindh collectively,
and "Province" means each and any of the Provinces
individually;
      (d)   "ADBP" means the Agricultural Development Bank
of Pakistan, established under the Borrower's Agricultur-
al Development Bank Ordinance, 1961, as amended from time
to time;
      (e)   "Provinces Project Agreement" means the
agreement between the Association and the Provinces of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Provinces Project Agree-
ment;
      (f)   "ADBP Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and ADBP of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the ADBP Project Agreement;
      (g)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and ADBP pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (h)   "PID" means a Provincial Irrigation Department;
      (i)   "OFWM" means On-Farm Water Management;
      (j)   "OFWM Directorate" means a Provincial On-Farm
Water Management Directorate;
      (k)   "PAD" means a Provincial Agriculture Depart-
ment;
      (l)   "PAED" means a Provincial Agricultural Exten-
Page  3
sion Department;
      (m)   "FD" means a Provincial Finance Department;
      (n)   "DA" means a district administration in a
Province;
      (o)   "DAO" means a district administration officer;
      (p)   "MCO" means a Mobile Credit Officer of ADBP and
"FMCO" means a Functional Mobile Credit Officer of ADBP;
      (q)   "AO" means an Agricultural Officer of a PAED;
      (r)   "WUA" means a Water Users Association;
      (s)   "WAPDA" means the Water and Power Development
Authority of Pakistan, established and existing under the
Borrower's Water and Power Development Authority Act,
1958, as amended from time to time;
      (t)   "PMC" means a Project Management Cell;
      (u)   "PD" means the Project Director in charge of a
PMC;
      (v)   "PFU" means a Project Field Unit;
      (w)   "PACC" means a Project Area Coordination
Committee;
      (x)   "PPC" means a Project Policy Committee;
      (y)   "Punjab Project Areas" mean the areas of Punjab
in which the Project is to be carried out, being the
districts of Sheikhupura, Gujranwala, Faisalabad and
Jhang;
      (z)   "Sindh Project Areas" mean the areas of Sindh
in which the Project is to be carried out, being the
districts of Nawab Shah and Naushero Feroze;
      (aa)  "Project Areas" mean the Punjab Project Areas
and the Sindh Project Areas collectively;
      (bb)  "Special Accounts" mean collectively the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment and more fully defined in paragraphs (cc) and (dd)
of this Section, and "Special Account" means each and any
such account individually;
      (cc)  "Punjab Special Account" means the Special
Account which Punjab shall open and maintain pursuant to
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c)
of the Provinces Project Agreement;
      (dd)  "Sindh Special Account" means the Special
Account which Sindh shall open and maintain pursuant to
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c)
of the Provinces Project Agreement;
      (ee)  "SCARP" means a salinity control and reclama-
tion project;
      (ff)  "TW" means a tubewell;
      (gg)  "STW" means a SCARP tubewell;
      (hh)  "PTW" means private tubewell;
      (ii)  "SGW" means saline groundwater;
Page  4
      (jj)  "FGW" means fresh groundwater;
      (kk)  "APB" means an agricultural passbook;
      (ll)  "O&M" means operation and maintenance;
      (mm)  "Rs" and "rupees" mean the Borrower's currency;
      (nn)  "FY" or "fiscal year" means the period July 1
through June 30; and
      (oo)  "ISRP II" means the Association-financed Second
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1888
PAK).
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 14,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of their
respective activities under the Project, cause the
Provinces to open and maintain in dollars special deposit
accounts in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Provinces Project
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1997, or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereaf-
ter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
Page  5
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15
in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2001 and
ending January 15, 2026. Each installment to and includ-
ing the installment payable on January 15, 2011 shall be
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Associa-
tion may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after
due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such install-
ment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include,
in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association deter-
mines that the Borrower's economic condition has deterio-
rated significantly, the Association may, if so requested
by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The following are designated as
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions:
      (a)   in respect of Punjab's activities under Parts
A, B and C of the Project, the Chairman, Planning and
Development Board, Punjab;
      (b)   in respect of Sindh's activities under Parts A
and C of the Project, the Additional Chief Secretary,
Planning and Development Department, Sindh; and
Page  6
      (c)   in respect of ADBP's activities under Part A of
the Project, the Chairman, ADBP.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commit-
ment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement:
            (i)   shall cause the Provinces and ADBP to
                  perform in accordance with the provisions
                  of the Project Agreements all the obliga-
                  tions of the Provinces and ADBP therein
                  set forth, shall take and cause to be
                  taken all action, including the provision
                  of funds, facilities, services and other
                  resources, necessary or appropriate to
                  enable the Provinces and ADBP to perform
                  such obligations, and shall not take or
                  permit to be taken any action which would
                  prevent or interfere with such perfor-
                  mance; and
            (ii)  shall cause WAPDA to enter into the ar-
                  rangements with the Provinces referred to
                  in Section 3.03 of the Provinces Project
                  Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make available out of the
proceeds of the Credit:
            (i)   to Punjab, an amount equivalent to about
                  SDR 6,984,000, for the purposes of Punja-
                  b's activities under Parts A, B and C of
                  the Project; and
            (ii)  to Sindh, an amount equivalent to about
                  SDR 1,456,000, for the purposes of Sindh-
                  's activities under Parts A and C of the
                  Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds
of the Credit an amount equivalent to about SDR 6,360,000
to ADBP for the purposes of ADBP's activities under Part
A of the Project under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ADBP, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association which shall include the terms and conditions
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and consultant-
s' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 1 to each of the Project
Agreements.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections
Page  7
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the activities of the Provinces and ADBP under
the Project shall be carried out by the Provinces and
ADBP, respectively, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Provinces Project Agreement and Section 2.03 of the ADBP
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than December 31, 1993, acting
jointly with the Provinces and in consultation with the
Association, carry out a mid-term review of the Project,
and thereafter make such adjustments in the activities to
be carried out under the Project and the related organi-
zational and operational arrangements as are agreed with
the Association in light of the conclusions of the
review; and
      (b)   not later than December 31, 1992, in consulta-
tion with the Provinces, prepare and furnish to the
Association for its concurrence the terms of reference
for such mid-term review.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect
to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on
the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower
shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting practic-
                  es, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, or-
                  ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures
                  are retained until at least one year
                  after the Association has received the
                  audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Ac-
                  count was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to
                  in paragraph (a) (i) of this Section for
                  each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than
                  nine months after the end of each such
                  year the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such de-
                  tail as the Association shall have rea-
                  sonably requested, including a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether
                  the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls
Page  8
                  involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related with-
                  drawals; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time rea-
                  sonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   A Province shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Provinces Project Agreement or
ADBP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ADBP Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraor-
dinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that a Province will be able to perform its
obligations under the Provinces Project Agreement or that
ADBP will be able to perform its obligations under the
ADBP Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Agricultural Development Bank Ordinance,
1961, of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of ADBP to perform any of its
obligations under the ADBP Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of ADBP or for the suspension of
its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and ADBP;
      (b)   the consultants referred to in Section II (a)
and (b) of Schedule 1 to the Provinces Project Agreement
have been appointed;
      (c)   the PMCs and PFUs referred to in paragraphs 2
(a) and (b) of Schedule 2 to the Provinces Project
Page  9
Agreement have been established;
      (d)   the arrangements referred to in Section 3.03 of
the Provinces Project Agreement have been entered into;
and
      (e)   the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council has approved the PC-1 documents with
respect to the Project.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Provinces and ADBP, and are
legally binding upon the Provinces and ADBP in accordance
with their terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ADBP and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and ADBP in accor-
dance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The provisions of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20)
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional
Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section
Officer in that Division of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Condi-
tions:
      For the Borrower:
            Economic Affairs Division
            Islamabad
            Pakistan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECONOMIC                  ECDIV-05-634
                  Islamabad
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
Page  10
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                  By /s/ Arshad Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Michael H. Wiehen
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Credit provided       6,360,000            80% of amounts
    by ADBP for PTWs                           disbursed by ADBP
(2) Civil works           4,002,000            89%
    materials for
    Punjab
(3) Equipment for:                              100% of foreign
                                                expenditures, 100%
    (a)  Punjab             164,000             of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
    (b)  Sindh               60,000             cost) and 70% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
(4)      Consultants'                           80% of expendi-
    services for:                               tures for
                                                internationally
                                                selected consul-
                                                tants and 90% of
    (a)  Punjab                1,273,000        expenditures for
                                                locally selected
    (b)  Sindh                 1,059,000        consultants
Page  11
                           Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)      Training for:                          90%
    (a)  Punjab                   25,000
    (b)  Sindh                     5,000
(6)      Incremental             400,000        92%
    staff salaries
    and (non-travel)
    allowances for
    Punjab
(7)      Incremental                            85%
    operating
    costs for:
    (a)  Punjab                   70,000
    (b)  Sindh                   114,000
(8)      Unallocated
    for:
    (a)  Punjab                1,050,000
    (b)  Sindh                   218,000
                              __________
                              14,800,000
         TOTAL                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures in the currency of any country other than that of
the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expendi-
tures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "incremental staff salaries and (non-
travel) allowances" means the salaries and (non-travel)
allowances of staff whether newly recruited or trans-
ferred from other parts of the Punjab PID and assigned
exclusively to the Project; and
      (d)   the term "incremental operating costs" means
the office rental, utilities and vehicle operating costs
incurred by a PMC exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
3.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and (ii) Category (1) on account of payments
made for expenditures for a PTW, on account of which
withdrawals have been requested or made out of the
proceeds of any other foreign loan or credit.
      (b)   For the purposes of this provision, the term
"other foreign loan or credit" means a loan or credit,
other than the Credit, financed from sources located in
any country other than that of the Borrower.
Page  12
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the
government of Punjab in implementing, and the government
of Sindh in testing the viability of, a policy of
transition of SCARP tube-wells (STWs) located in fresh
groundwater (FGW) areas from public into private owner-
ship, so as to: (i) increase agricultural production and
farm incomes through improved and timely availability of
supplemental irrigation water supply; (ii) maintain the
groundwater table at suitable levels; and (iii) eliminate
the government's financial responsibility for O&M and
replacement of STWs; and (b) to those ends, to develop
and implement a coordinated package of incentives.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:     Installation of Private Tubewells
      Installation by farmers of electrically-powered or
diesel-driven privately-owned tubewells (PTWs) to
replace, or conversion and/or transfer to farmers of,
existing SCARP tubewells (STWs) in the FGW areas of the
Project Areas.
Part B:     Improvement of Watercourses
      Renovation of about 500 watercourses, including
brick/cement/precast slab lining of selected sections,
installation of permanent outlets (pucca nuccas),
construction of culverts, a limited number of check/drop
structures and buffalo baths, and improvement of the
earthen (katcha) sections, in the Punjab Project Areas.
Part C:     Technical Assistance and Training
1.    Carrying out of hydrogeological studies in the
Project Areas.
2.    Preparation of future SCARP transition projects for
the Provinces.
3.    Training of: (a) AOs in TW water management and soil
and water management; (b) FMCOs in TW technology and
credit operations; and (c) farmers in techniques of
inter-farm distribution and optimum utilization of PTW
water.
                           *   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Terms and Conditions for Relending of
                Credit Proceeds to ADBP referred to
               in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement
      Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
ADBP shall:
      (a)   pay a return on the amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding at a variable rate equivalent
Page  13
to the variable lending rate charged by the Bank on loans
made by it; and
      (b)   repay the principal amount of the Credit over
a period of fifteen (15)  years, including a grace period
of three (3) years, the principal amount of the Credit,
for this purpose, being the aggregate equivalent of the
amounts withdrawn by ADBP out of the Credit Account
expressed in rupees determined as of the respective dates
of withdrawal.
