                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003271



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-74320)



                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 16.8 MILLION
                         (US$22.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                        FOR A

     SUSTAINABLE MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                  December 30, 2014




Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice
Middle East and North Africa Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective November, 24, 2014)


                  Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
                         TD 1.00 = US$0.546
                         US$ 1.00 =TD1.832
                        EURO 1.00 = US$ 1.26
                        US$ 1.00 = EURO 0.79


                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31



                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANPE    National Environmental Protection Agency (Agence Nationale de
        Protection de l’Environnement)
ANGed   National Agency for Waste Management (Agence Nationale de la Gestion
        des Déchets)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDM     Clean Development Mechanism
CEPA    Country Environmental Performance Analysis
CER     Certified Emission Reductions
DBO     Design-Build-Operate
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GIS     Geographical Information System
GIZ     German Society for International Cooperation
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
LFG     Landfill Gas
MDG     Millennium Development Goals
MDP     Municipal Development Project
MEDD    Ministry of Environment and Sustainable Development (Ministère de
        l’Environnement et du Développement Durable)
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MENA    Middle East and North Africa
METAP   Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
NEAP    National Environmental Action Plan
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PRONGID   National Program for Integrated and Sustainable Waste Management
          (Programme National de Gestion Intégrée et Durable des Déchets)
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QALP      Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio
SEDD      Secretariat of Environment and Sustainable Development (Secrétaire d’Etat du
          Développement Durable)




               Acting Vice President: Gerard Byam
                     Country Director: Neil Simon M. Gray
             Acting Practice Manager: Nina Bhatt
                 Project Team Leader: Jaafar Sadok Friaa
                    ICR Team Leader: Philip Winchell Bottern
                                          Tunisia
                   Sustainable Municipal Solid Waste Management Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 21
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 25
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 27
  Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 28
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 29
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Tunisia: Sustainable
Country:                Tunisia                 Project Name:            Municipal Solid Waste
                                                                         Management Project
Project ID:             P095012                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-74320
ICR Date:               12/30/2014              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                         TUNISIA
Original Total
                        USD 22.00M              Disbursed Amount:        USD 20.71M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 22.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Agence Nationale de Gestion des Dechets (ANGed)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/13/2005     Effectiveness:            07/20/2007        07/20/2007
Appraisal:            11/15/2006     Restructuring(s):                           06/21/2012
Approval:             03/13/2007     Mid-term Review:                            02/12/2009
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2012        06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                  Ratings
                        Moderately                                      Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower        Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:            Unsatisfactory



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Project at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     17                  10
Other social services                                                  1                    1
Solid waste management                                                78                  87
Sub-national government administration                                 4                    2


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                         29                  33
Climate change                                                        14                  18
Environmental policies and institutions                               14                  8
Other human development                                               14                  8
Pollution management and environmental health                         29                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Gerard A. Byam                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Neil Simon M. Gray                   Theodore O. Ahlers
Practice
                           Chaogang Wang                        Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Philip Winchell Bottern              Dahlia Lotayef
ICR Team Leader:           Philip Winchell Bottern
ICR Primary Author:        Jerome F. Chevallier




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the Project is to assist the Tunisian Government in
strengthening the key elements of sustainability of municipal solid waste management.
This objective will be achieved through the operationalization of a planning and
implementation system of solid waste management at the national and local levels and
through the rehabilitation of a number of environmentally harmful dumpsites. These
actions will enable the Tunisian Government to enter the emerging global market of carbon
credits through the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) introduced under the Kyoto
Protocol.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values       Target Years
                The Government of Tunisia enters the emerging market for carbon credits by
Indicator 1 :   selling Certified Emissions Reductions with total revenues of US$20 million or
                more.
Value
                                                                US$4.2
quantitative or 0                           US$20 million                       US$3.55 million
                                                                million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/02/2007                    07/02/2007          06/21/2012      06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Not met: 7.1% of initial target; 85% of revised target.
achievement)
                Environmental Performance : The percentage of the Tunisian urban population
Indicator 2 : living in areas serviced with sanitary landfills and large dumpsites have been
                closed
Value
quantitative or 0                                               63.5%           63%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/02/2007                                        06/21/2012      06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        This new indicator following restructuring was almost met.
achievement)
                Improved modalities of public-private partnerships for waste management will
Indicator 3 :
                reduce the shortfall in financing landfill operations by at least 10 percent.
Value
                Shortfall in 2006:
quantitative or                                                 Dropped.
                US$1.212 million.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/02/2007                                        06/21/2012

                                               iii
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                           Revised
                                             approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                            documents)                      Target Years
                The performance of the National Solid Waste Management Program
Indicator 1 :   (PRONGID) is reviewed and a new sector policy is endorsed by the Board of
                ANGed
Value
(quantitative                                                                 Not done
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                 06/30/2014
Comments
                This new indicator following restructuring was not met. A review of
(incl. %
                PRONGID's performance was underway at closing date.
achievement)
                ANGed is equipped with new tools for planning information management, and
Indicator 2 :
                monitoring and evaluation.
Value                                                         GIS system is
(quantitative                                                 in place and Done
or Qualitative)                                               operational
Date achieved                                                 11/09/2014      06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        A new indicator following restructuring. Fully achieved.
achievement)
                ANGed develops a system, open to the private sector, for procurement regulation
Indicator 3 :
                and for public bidding on combined collection, transfer and transport contracts.
Value
(quantitative                                                 Dropped
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                 02/12/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Involvement of concerned stakeholders in the preparation of Regional Municipal
Indicator 4 :
                Solid Waste Master Plans, consistent with and affecting national programming.
Value
(quantitative                                                 Dropped
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                 02/12/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                               iv
                  10-15 municipalities voluntarily participate in a pilot effort to determine baseline
Indicator 5 :
                  indicators and achieve their established objectives.
Value
(quantitative                                                    Dropped
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                    02/12/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  ANGed has a system and standard procedures established for closing,
Indicator 6 :
                  rehabilitating, and environmentally monitoring open dumps.
Value
(quantitative                                                    Dropped
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                    02/12/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Continuous monitoring system for CDM operations within ANGed in order ot
Indicator 7 :
                  maximize carbon emissions reductions.
Value
(quantitative                                                                    Done
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                    12/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          System was already in place during restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Number of open dumps which are closed.
Value
(quantitative     7                                              7               7 dumps closed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/02/2007                                     02/12/2009      12/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved; but new open dumps are proliferating.
achievement)
                  Number of landfills equipped with land fill gas treatment systems as per the
Indicator 9 :
                  CDM requirements.
Value
(quantitative     10                                             8               8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/02/2007                                     02/12/2009      06/30/2014
Comments
                  Cells 4 and 5 of Djebel Chekir, which were part of the project, are not yet fully
(incl. %
                  equipped.
achievement)




                                                  v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP                Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1   06/27/2007        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       0.00
  2   12/17/2007        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       1.42
  3   06/27/2008        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       5.75
  4   01/06/2009    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              10.93
  5   12/22/2009        Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              14.69
  6   05/14/2010    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              16.72
  7   11/18/2010    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              17.59
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  8   06/30/2011                                                                         19.05
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  9   01/03/2012                                                                         19.05
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                     Moderately
 10   09/07/2012                                                                         19.05
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
 11   04/15/2013    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               20.33
 12   12/28/2013    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               20.42
                         Moderately                     Moderately
 13   06/25/2014                                                                         21.29
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Reason: (a) to complete the
                                                     remaining infrastructure and
                                                     institutional activities; (b) to
                                                     adjust the institutional
                                                     component to take into
                                                     consideration the post-
                                                     revolution context at both a
                                                     national and local level; and (c)
 06/21/2012       N       MU    MU           19.05   to more accurately measure
                                                     project progress and outcomes.
                                                     The proposed restructuring
                                                     would not modify the Project
                                                     Development Objective (PDO).

                                                                  Key changes
                                                                  (i) Extension of Loan closing
                                                                  date for two years, from June

                                              vi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     30, 2012 until June 30, 2014.
                                                     This would be the first
                                                     extension of project closing
                                                     date.
                                                     (ii) Revision of project
                                                     components to include: (a)
                                                     replacing the activity on
                                                     regional municipal solid waste
                                                     management plans by an
                                                     independent strategic review of
                                                     the national solid waste
                                                     management program
                                                     (PRONGID); and (b) investing
                                                     in 7 instead of 9 landfill gazes
                                                     (LFG) collection systems
                                                     outside of Tunis.
                                                     (iii) Update of the results
                                                     monitoring framework to
                                                     account for the change in
                                                     project components, candidly
                                                     reflect project outcomes, and
                                                     adapt specific targets especially
                                                     those related to reduction of
                                                     CO2 emissions.
                                                     (iv) Reallocations between
                                                     disbursement categories to
                                                     reflect the addition of a new
                                                     category of eligible
                                                     expenditures for training acti




                                         vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1. The political situation in Tunisia was stable, with President Ben Ali vested with
considerable power over the decision making process. He had been re-elected to a fourth
five-year term in October 2004 with 94.5 percent of the vote. Economic performance was
strong and improving. In 2004-06, GDP growth averaged 5.1 percent per annum, compared
to 4.1 percent in 2001-03. The budget deficit declined to an annual average of 3.1 percent
compared to 3.5 percent during the preceding three-year period. Tunisia was making good
progress towards meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).

2. In 1990, Tunisia developed a national environmental action plan (NEAP), which
provided a framework for the launching of significant environmental and resource
conservation programs. During the 1990s, the Bank estimated that Tunisia allocated about
1 percent of its GDP to public expenditures on environmental and natural resource
management, a level comparable to that of some European countries. Municipal waste was
increasingly perceived as a threat to Tunisia’s coasts, and to its striving tourism industry.
In 1995, a framework law on waste management was promulgated. In 2000, the
Government developed a national program for the management of solid waste (which
became eventually PRONGID - National Program for Integrated and Sustainable Waste
Management). The National Environmental Protection Agency (ANPE) was responsible
for its implementation. The program was supported by several donors, including the
European Investment Bank (EIB) and the German and Italian aid agencies.

3. The Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program (METAP), a
long-term initiative implemented by the World Bank with European financing, was
designed in the 1990s to help the eight Mashreq-Maghreb countries, including Tunisia,
address environmental protection issues. In 2001, METAP was restructured and focused
on three areas, including municipal and hazardous waste, and ANPE was selected to
manage the municipal waste element for the eight countries. In 2002, in close cooperation
with the Government of Tunisia, the Bank initiated the preparation of a Country
Environmental Performance Analysis (CEPA) to help integrate environmental issues into
economic development strategies. In the area of waste management, CEPA recommended
an integrated approach with a focus on the technical and financial viability of investments.
In 2005, a Ministry in charge of the Environment and Sustainable Development (MEDD)
was created, and the National Waste Management Agency (ANGed) was established in
MEDD to help municipalities plan and promote sustainable waste management.

4. In the mid-2000s, the CEPA estimated that about one third of Tunisia’s urban
population had access to sanitary landfills and the other two thirds had to do with about
400 uncontrolled dumps. About 40 percent of total municipal waste was disposed of in
sanitary landfills. The design of these landfills was inadequate, however, with high risks of
                                             1
accidents and operational problems. Economic efficiency of the system was low, due to its
fragmentation and high cost. Municipalities were in charge of the household garbage
collection, transport and treatment, but were unable to deliver on the latter two aspects
because their revenue collection was weak and their financial situation precarious. ANPE,
and ANGed after 2005, were responsible for the management of landfills and the transport
from transfer centers to landfills. ANGed affiliates were responsible for collecting and
recycling packaging materials, used oil and batteries. Cost recovery for the collection,
transfer, treatment and disposal of municipal waste in the greater Tunis metropolitan area
was only 15 percent of the total cost. The 10th Development Plan (2002-06) provided for
the establishment of nine sanitary landfills for 101 municipalities with a total of 800,000
tons per year; the establishment of a treatment station for hazardous industrial waste with
a capacity of 70,000 tons; and studies for the rehabilitation of a number of dumps.

5. The project under review was developed in the context of CEPA, taking into
account ongoing projects financed by other external partners. The closure of
unregulated dumps, supported by the project, was part of a presidential initiative, to which
the MEDD was strongly committed, and the Government of Tunisia requested Bank
assistance to participate in the greenhouse gas reduction credits. The project was the first
one in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region to link investments in waste
management with income derived from the reduction of carbon emissions.

6. The project was not included in the lending program proposed in the 2004 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) indicated that the
project was in line with the first strategic objective of the CAS, which was to strengthen
the business environment to support the development of a more competitive and
internationally oriented private sector and improve the competitiveness of the Tunisian
economy. Another justification for the project in the PAD was that it was consistent with
the third strategic objective of the CAS, which was to improve the quality of social services
through enhanced efficiency of public expenditures. The project was approved in the
context of declining IBRD commitments to Tunisia and a shortfall of projects in the lending
program proposed by the CAS. This and the opportunity to link a Bank-supported
investment to income derived from the reduction of carbon emissions were the main drivers
for the Bank’s decision to move ahead with this innovative project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
7. The development objective of the Project was to assist the Tunisian Government
in strengthening the key elements of sustainability of municipal solid waste
management. This objective would be achieved through the operationalization of a
planning and implementation system of solid waste management at the national and local
levels and through the rehabilitation of a number of environmentally harmful dumpsites.
These actions would enable the Tunisian Government to enter the emerging global market
of carbon credits through the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) introduced under the
Kyoto Protocol.

8. The key outcome indicators were: (i) improved modalities of public-private
partnership for waste management, which would reduce the shortfall in financing landfill
operations, estimated at about US$1.212 million in 2006, by at least 10 percent; and (ii)
                                             2
the Government of Tunisia would enter the emerging market for carbon credits by selling
Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) with total revenues of at least US$20 million.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
9. The project was restructured in June 2012 (level 2). Before the 2011 Tunisian
Revolution, excellent progress had been made in implementing the infrastructure
component of the project, but little was done under the institutional development
component, due to delays in contracting consultant services. The decision making process
was brought to a standstill in the aftermath of the revolution when regional and local
councils were dissolved. The restructuring should have considered changing the project
development objective, to focus on what the project should achieve before the closing date
by defining elements of sustainability more clearly.

10. The objective of the restructuring was to allow for completion of the
infrastructure component, adjustment of the institutional component to the post
revolution context and better measurement of project progress and achievements.
The project objective was not changed, but outcome indicators were revised. The first one
was dropped because the contribution of the project to achieving the target was difficult to
measure. The target for the second indicator was reduced from US$20 million to US$4.2
million, as more accurate data to better estimate the CERs had become available. A third
outcome indicator was added to provide more focus on project results and benefits. It was
defined as the percentage of the Tunisian urban population living in areas serviced with
Landfills and Landfill Gas (LFG) systems, in which environmental impacts and odor
pollution have been controlled, and in which open dumps have been rehabilitated or closed.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
11. The project was expected to improve the quality of life of the target population by
reducing the negative environmental impacts for the nearby residents of the seven
inadequate open disposal sites to be closed or rehabilitated under the project. The
environmental benefits of the closure or rehabilitation of the dumpsite were estimated on
the basis of increased land value of nearby properties. On the other hand, the closure of
these sites would negatively affect the livelihoods of the communities who worked as waste
pickers. A project sub-component was designed to address this issue.

12. Other beneficiaries were the municipalities involved in the project, which would
be enabled to improve the sustainability of their solid waste operations. Finally ANGed
and ANPE would benefit from the institutional and capacity building component of the
project.

1.5 Original Components
13. The project included three components: institutional support and capacity building,
infrastructure construction, and project management.

14. The first component, institutional support and capacity-building (US$1.8 million)
included four sub-components, namely: (i) institutional support and capacity building for

                                             3
ANGed (finalization of organizational structure, preparation of operational manuals,
development of procurement, cost optimization and financial monitoring systems, study on
the use of the Greater Tunis landfill, and initiation of a computerized management system
for the monitoring and control of emission reductions and CDM activities; (ii) regional
planning, inter-communality and cost optimization (provide tools for participatory
planning for sustainable and integrated waste management at local and regional levels,
build capacities for appropriate allocation of costs at the municipal level, assess
performance of municipal services, promote best practices, and define and implement cost
reduction and waste collection service optimization strategies); (iii) institutional support
and capacity-building for ANPE (development of sectoral guidelines for Environmental
Impact Assessments – EIAs – and capacity-building in ANGed and ANPE; and (iv)
mitigation of social impacts by initiating activities for improving the working conditions
of waste pickers (detailed census, discussion of options for reinsertion with them,
awareness campaigns and training on environmental health).

15. The second component, infrastructure construction (US$21.84 million), included
three sub-components, (i) construction of cell No 5 of Djebel Chekir landfill in Greater
Tunis (US$5.3 million); (ii) collection and treatment of landfill gases in Djebel Chekir
landfill as well as in the first cell of the nine new landfills; and (iii) rehabilitation of seven
open dumps. The construction of the new landfills had been supported by the EIB and
German and Italian bilateral aid.

16. The third component, project management (US$0.7 million) included technical
assistance, training programs, and equipment for the project management unit (PMU) in
ANGed for project implementation.

1.6 Revised Components
17. Two sub-components were revised. The development of waste management plans in
eight governorates (sub-component 2) was abandoned because all pre-revolution municipal
and regional councils, who had a key role in the sub-component, had been dissolved. It was
replaced by a strategic review of the National Solid Waste Management Program
(PRONGID), which was expected to set the stage for overdue sector reforms, including
better governance of the sector and enhanced institutional and financial sustainability of
solid waste management systems.

18. Sub-component 2 of the infrastructure component was reduced to involve the
collection and treatment of landfills in seven landfills, instead of nine, because of the low
potential for carbon reduction at two of the initial landfills.

1.7 Other significant changes
19. The changes in the institutional component led to changes to intermediate
outcome indicators. In the initial results framework, ANGed was expected to develop a
system, open to the private sector, for procurement regulations and for public bidding on
combined collection, transfer and transport contracts. This indicator was dropped. Two
indicators related to municipal planning were also dropped (number of municipalities
involved in a pilot effort to determine baseline indicators and achieve their established

                                                4
objectives, and masterplans consistent with and affecting national programming). An
indicator related to the performance of PRONGID was added as follows: the performance
of PRONGID is reviewed and a new sector policy action plan is endorsed by the Board of
ANGed. The indicator related to the involvement of stakeholders in the preparation of
regional master plans was dropped and replaced by: ANGed is equipped with new tools for
planning information management, and monitoring and evaluation. This change was made
to better reflect the contribution of the project in improving the institutional management
and organization.

20. The indicator related to the closing of open dumps was changed. Initially, ANGed
was expected to have a system and standard procedures for closing, rehabilitating, and
environmentally monitoring open dumps. This was dropped and replaced by the number
of open dumps closed.

21. A new category of eligible expenditures for training purposes was introduced ,
which entailed a reallocation of loan proceeds. The procurement prior review thresholds
were changed to align them to the MENA standard practice. The loan closing date was
extended by two years to end-June 2014 to take account of disruptions caused by the
revolution to project implementation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
22. The PAD does not include an analysis of the cost structure of the waste collection,
transport and disposal system or a review of public expenditures in the sector, including
the amount of subsidization by the central government. During the quality assessment of
the lending portfolio (QALP) in 2010, the task team mentioned that there were taxes on the
import of plastic raw materials and the so called ECO LEF tax for waste packaging to
defray the cost of waste disposal, but there was no information on the contribution of these
taxes to the financing of the solid waste system. The Bank had through METAP and three
municipal development projects experience from the sector and it was expected that pilot
activities supported by the project in 10-15 municipalities would provide baseline
indicators, which would in turn be used for the preparation of regional solid waste
management plans.

23. Lessons were drawn from experience in Lebanon, in the Philippines and in
Tunisia. A main recommendation from the experience in Lebanon was the importance of
reaching an agreement with the Government on the sustainable management factors to be
adopted, including financial and cost recovery aspects, early on. While the Government of
Tunisia acknowledged the importance of cost recovery, they believed that immediate
enforcement of this principle was not politically and socially feasible. Accordingly,
agreement was reached on the development of a national cost recovery and optimization
strategy based on a pilot action plan to be carried out during project implementation. The
pilot action plan aimed at benchmarking solid waste management systems in a limited
number of municipalities, which would allow a comparison and ranking of municipalities
on the basis of the quality of services provided and their cost.

                                             5
24. A social analysis was needed to better understand the collection systems, as well
as the perceptions of communities concerning waste management systems and proposed
improvements, leading to an assessment of the willingness to pay for improved services.
The social analysis, as summarized in Annex 11 of the PAD, focused on the impact the
closure of dumpsites would have on waste pickers and contributed to the design of the
mitigation of social impacts sub-component of the project, but it did not provide any
information on the communities’ willingness to pay for improved services, which could
have been a useful input to further sector development.

25. Experience in the Philippines on the Design-Build-Operate (DBO) approach
showed that there was private sector interest in participating in the solid waste area. To
make it successful, however, it is important to involve specialized expertise from the outset,
reach agreement on the terms of reference of the DBO contract before Board presentation,
and recruit a project manager with DBO experience during contract implementation. The
DBO approach was used for the collection and treatment of biogas, and bidding invitations
were prepared along the lines of those used in the Philippines.

26. Lessons were drawn from experience in the implementation of METAP and the
third Municipal Development Project (MDP 3) in Tunisia. METAP provided technical
assistance to Tunisia to promote private sector participation in the waste management
sector and to develop an action plan for inter-municipal waste management in one
governorate. MDP 3 financed rolling stocks for waste collection and transportation, and
supported measures to improve municipal financial management, including revenue
mobilization.

27. The three lessons from these two projects were the need to emphasize inter-
communality cooperation, to focus on cost optimization, and to enhance the capacity of the
public sector to work efficiently with the private sector. The project provided support to
ANGed to initiate the inter-communality of sanitary landfills management. It is not clear
from project documents, however, how the project would contribute to cost optimization.
As for the third aspect, the project sought to better familiarize ANGed with the delegation
of public services, for which there was little understanding in Tunisia. There was no
specific action taken in that respect in the project, however.

28. The project design was simple. The infrastructure component focused on the most
urgent actions to improve the system from an environmental standpoint. The gas recovery
sub-component was designed to enable Tunisia to benefit from the World Bank’s Carbon
Finance Initiative through the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This would
contribute to financing the investment and operating cost of solid waste management.
Another innovative aspect of the project was the introduction of the DBO approach for the
gas collection and treatment sub-component as a means to maximize emission reductions.
The institutional development component was expected to put key institutional, operational
and financial tools in place for a sustainable management of municipal solid waste.




                                              6
29. Other donors had been involved in the construction of landfills across Tunisia and
in providing technical assistance to the sector. In particular, GIZ, Germany’s technical
assistance agency, was active in the sector and working closely with the Bank on cost
optimization and cost recovery issues.

30. Safeguards. Tunisia was selected among the MENA countries for piloting the use of
country systems to address environmental and social safeguard issues in Bank-financed
projects because of the advanced state of its regulatory framework following OP/BP 4.00
on Environmental and Social Safeguard in Bank supported Projects. There were gaps,
however, between legal requirements and practice and the gaps were addressed before
negotiations. It was not foreseen that land would be acquired for project purposes. On the
other hand, some adjoining areas to dumpsites to be rehabilitated through the project were
privately owned and would likely continue to receive waste. As the national framework
did not cover involuntary resettlement, the project triggered the Bank’s Policy OP/BP 4.12
on Involuntary Land Acquisition and Resettlement and a Resettlement Policy Framework
was prepared in 2006. The social analysis on the losses that would be incurred by
communities involved in waste picking in dumpsites to be closed was fully adequate.

31. The risk analysis was incomplete. Three risks were identified: (i) delays in
implementing cost recovery measures; (ii) inability of ANGed to mobilize the funds
required for the biogas component and the rehabilitation of dumpsites; and (iii)
unwillingness of local communities to play an active role in solid waste management. The
decision to gradually introduce cost recovery measures in the solid waste system, based on
pilot activities and awareness campaigns, was expected to mitigate the first risk. The risk
of insufficient project co-financing was mitigated by the upfront Bank payment of 25
percent of the total carbon credit revenue expected. The third risk was to be mitigated by
direct support to communities and provision of some incentives for participating in pilot
activities.

32. Some other key risks, such as lower than expected revenues from emission
reductions and delays in implementing the institutional development component of
the project, were also relevant. The expected revenues from emission reductions were
calculated using a methodology (defined by CDM) over which the Bank had no control
and they were highly overestimated. Secondly, the Government had a tendency to focus on
infrastructure as a means of solving problems and was less interested in institutional
development issues. The risk arising from conflicts between landfill operators and gas
collection and treatment operators working on the site at the same time was averted through
contractual clauses and the filling methods used, allowing the gas operator to intervene in
certain areas of the site only after it had been freed by the landfill operator. As the ban on
the presence of unauthorized personnel on landfill sites was more or less implemented
effectively, the risk of interference of waste pickers in landfill operations was not foreseen,
but it became a serious issue during project implementation.

33. Government commitment to the project. Through its regional leadership of the solid
waste component of METAP, Tunisia had demonstrated its interest in promoting an
integrated approach to the development of the sector. The CEPA recommended that a

                                              7
specific agency be created for managing the solid waste sector to provide vision, leadership
and coordination among various stakeholders. ANPE, which was responsible for the sector,
was overburdened and unable to fulfill this role. In keeping with this recommendation, the
Government established ANGed as the agency responsible for solid waste management
with a clear mandate to work with local governments for the development and
implementation of a national program to bring about increased efficiency and sustainability
in solid waste management. In January 2006, the Ministry in charge of the Environment
established a Steering Committee, including representatives of key ministries and
stakeholders, to provide strategic guidance to and overall monitoring of the investment
program and thus facilitate inter-agency coordination. The government commitment to the
program was deemed strong.

34. Consultations. Two two-day seminars were organized in February 2006 to discuss
environmental impact assessments (EIAs). Participants included representatives from
ministries, the public and private sectors, NGOs, media and donors. Key messages were
the need to focus on strategic environmental assessments and address the entire solid waste
management chain. The roles of participants in the sector were clarified.

35. In the Eighth Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA8) in October 2007, QAG gave a
satisfactory rating to the project, including highly satisfactory for implementation
arrangements and environmental aspects and satisfactory for all other dimensions of the
project. They praised the simple project design and the modest objective.

2.2 Implementation
36. Three factors heavily influenced project implementation: In the early years of
project implementation, ANGed decided to focus on the infrastructure component, which
resulted in considerable delays in launching the institutional development component. The
volume of gas collected and treated in the landfills was consistently well below
expectations due to an overestimation of the potential gas production and technical
problems at the landfills such as lack of sufficient drainage equipment, difficulties with
adjustment of valves to secure the right mix from different gas pumps and condensation in
pipes. Finally, the 2011 revolution led to a standstill in project activities, the replacement
of all officials involved in decision making for the project and an authority crisis, which
manifested itself through the inability of the police to enforce the ban on access to landfills
by unauthorized personnel and the dumping of waste in unauthorized areas. To address the
shortfall in gas volume, the Bank intensified its technical supervision and made specific
recommendations which were systematically monitored.

37. The Mid-Term Review took place in February 2010. The Bank congratulated the
Government for the rapid and effective implementation of the infrastructure component.
On the other hand, it emphasized the need to take additional actions to increase the
production of gas at the Djebel Chekir landfill, and to implement without delay a revised
action plan for ensuring that the institutional development component would be completed
within the two years left before the original closing date of the loan.




                                              8
38. As indicated above, the project was restructured in June 2012, just before the
original closing date of the loan. Following the restructuring, there were expectations that
the institutional development component would be launched and completed by the loan
closing date, but the implementation process was still slow and frequent changes in the
management structure did not solve this issue

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E design
39. There were two outcome indicators. It was expected that improved public-private
partnership arrangements for waste management would reduce the shortfall in financing
landfill operations by at least 10 percent. The deficit was estimated at US$1.212 million in
2006. Contracts for the management of the landfills had been signed before project
approval and there was therefore little scope for improved public-private partnership
arrangements. This indicator was dropped during project restructuring as the contribution
of the project to achieving the target was difficult to measure.

40. The project enabled Tunisia to enter the market for carbon credits. It was expected
that revenues from selling Certified Emission Reductions (CER) would yield total revenues
of US$20 million or more. This target was based on the mandatory application of the CDM
model and the project had no control of this. The CER potential of the sites was grossly
overestimated and the volumes produced were much less than expected. The target value
was lowered to US$4.2 million after project restructuring.

41. There was no outcome indicator for assessing the sustainability of the municipal
part of the solid waste management system. As indicated above, there was no
information on municipal finance or on the cost efficiency of municipal waste management
in the sector analysis of the PAD.

42. The three output indicators related to the institutional development component
were dropped because of the delays in implementing that component. They included:
(i) development by ANGed of a system, open to the private sector, for procurement
regulations and for public bidding on combined collection, transfer and transport; (ii)
involvement of concerned stakeholders in the preparation of regional municipal solid waste
master plans; and (iii) participation of 10-15 municipalities in pilot efforts to determine
baseline indicators. They were replaced after project restructuring by: (i) the performance
of PRONGID is reviewed and a new sector policy action plan is endorsed by the Board of
ANGed; and (ii) ANGed is equipped with new tools for planning information management,
and monitoring and evaluation. These new tools were not specified, however, making it
difficult to assess whether the target would be met.

43. The two output indicators related to the infrastructure component were
appropriate. The first one was defined as follows: ANGed has a system and standard
procedures for closing, rehabilitating and environmentally monitoring open dumps. It was
dropped at restructuring and replaced by the number of open dumps closed, which is
simpler, but does not capture the initial requirement that a system and standard procedures



                                             9
be in place. The second output indicator, continuous monitoring system for CDM
operations to maximize CERs, was straightforward and maintained.



M&E implementation

44. There was a special focus on M&E during the project launch workshop in
November 2007. A series of instruments was developed with workshop participants to
ensure that all critical aspects of the project would be adequately monitored and evaluated.
With the exception of the emphasis consistently put on the need to monitor gas collection
carefully, there was no mention of M&E in the aide-memoires of subsequent supervision
missions, however, until the Mid-Term Review of the project in February 2010. The
mission recommended that ANGed should include a discussion on project indicators in its
progress reports. The mission agreed that indicators would need to be adjusted. Aide-
memoires until the end of 2011 did not address M&E issues. An annex providing an outline
of a revised results framework was attached to the aide-memoire of the 2011 November-
December mission.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
45. All supervision missions focused on the resolution of safeguard issues as they arose.
Most missions were concerned with social safeguards. The June 2008 mission dealt with
the need to document land issues for each dumpsite and made a detailed set of
recommendations concerning several dumpsites in keeping with the policy framework for
resettlement and land acquisition. Progress in implementing these recommendations was
monitored by each subsequent mission and implementation was in compliance with all
relevant policies. Eventually, all issues raised by Bank missions were addressed, with the
exception of the expropriation of land adjoining the rehabilitated dump of Ezzouhour-
Sousse, which is still underway. Project implementation was in compliance with all
relevant policies.

46. After the 2011 revolution, the police force was no longer able to control access to
landfills and prevent the illegal dumping of waste. The May 2011 supervision mission
observed an increase in the number of waste pickers, including children, on the Djebel
Chekir landfill, and that earlier security measures were no longer enforced. The mission
recommended that ANGed take immediate measures to ensure the security of waste pickers,
accelerate the recruitment of the social expertise under the mitigation of social impacts
subcomponent of the project, and prepare an action plan. With the help of a local NGO,
progress was made in implementing the action plan and improving the conditions of waste
pickers. Problems persisted, however, including the presence of 44 children out of 316
waste pickers on the Djebel Chekir landfill in June 2014, compared to about a hundred
waste pickers on the site before the revolution.

47. The 2011 revolution brought about serious disruptions in the collection, transfer
and disposal of solid waste. Municipal equipment for collection of waste was vandalized
and waste accumulated in streets and illegal dumpsites. Despite the government

                                            10
commitment to improve the situation in the sector, there was a serious deterioration in the
management of the Djebel Chekir landfill, because of the overfilling of cell 5, combined
with delays in implementing cell 6, confusion in the management of the landfill, and weak
control over access to the site.

48. Good progress was made under environmental safeguards, especially by ANPE in
the area of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs).

49. In the fiduciary area, procurement was slow because of centralization of the process.
Financial management has been consistently satisfactory, except at the very end of project
implementation. By the closing date, the audit report for 2012 had not yet been received
by the Bank. It was eventually received for 2012 and 2013 in October 2014.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
50. During the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission in November 2014,
ANGed indicated that it would use remaining funds of the local contribution to the project
to finance the completion of the contract with consultants to prepare the strategic review
of PRONGID and the recruitment of consultants to prepare a communication strategy. It
intends to mobilize funds to finance the equipment of cells 4 and 5 of the Djebel Chekir
landfill to produce biogas in 2015.

51. In July 2014, the Bank approved a Euro 217 million program loan to help Tunisia
implement its decentralization principles provided for in the January 2014
Constitution. It would support the move away from a highly centralized system, in which
local governments had little autonomy and accountability to their citizens. The program
loan aims at: (i) strengthening local governments’ performance to deliver municipal
infrastructure; and (ii) improving access to services in disadvantaged neighborhoods.
Collection of solid waste is a key municipal responsibility.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
52. The objective of strengthening the key elements of sustainability of municipal
solid waste management is highly relevant today. On July 3, 2012, the Board reviewed
the Interim Strategy Note (ISN) for FY13-14. The overarching objective of the interim
strategy was to support employment creation within three areas of engagement, including:
(i) laying the foundations for renewed and sustainable growth and employment creation;
(ii) promoting social and economic inclusion; and (iii) strengthening governance, voice,
transparency and accountability. In the area of promoting social and economic inclusion,
the strategy included empowering municipalities for delivering improved services, inter
alia. This required addressing weak management and limited financial resources. Before
the revolution, the ratio of municipal to central government resources was estimated at 4
percent and declining. Inter-governmental fiscal transfers were biased towards richer
municipalities. The new Government was keen on building up technical and financial
resources of municipalities. The ISN would support this objective through a number of



                                            11
initiatives, including a new urban project and the restructured Sustainable Municipal Solid
Waste Management project.

53. The project design was simple, but the context in the early years of project
implementation was not favorable for building up the sustainability of the solid waste
management system and the capacity of municipalities to live up to their legal obligations.
The project was designed to link investments in waste management with income derived
from the reduction of carbon emissions, and as a pilot operation to introduce new tools that
would eventually lead to improving sustainability throughout the sector.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
54. The project has not achieved its development objective. The new tools for
improving sustainability in the sector have not been implemented. The technical capacity
of municipalities in waste collection has been weakened by the destruction of equipment
during the revolution and their financial capacity has not improved during project
implementation. As indicated above, their resources are far from sufficient to deliver
adequate services. The efficiency of their operations has remained low, as most of them
continue to use force account without effective cost control in solid waste management.
Unfortunately, waste collection services have worsened in recent years, with a visible
increase in litter on municipal roads. Expectations that the institutional development
component would lead to the elaboration of master plans for the sustainable management
of waste in eight governorates were not met.

55. Access to the emerging carbon credits by selling Certified Emission Reductions
(CERs) as a means for improving the overall sustainability of the solid waste management
system is an important achievement of the project, although the initial target was not met
and emission reductions at the end of 2013 were about 10 percent of the potential estimated
initially. Tunisia has developed expertise to benefit from future greenhouse gas reduction
schemes.

56. A new outcome indicator was added during restructuring, focusing on the
percentage of the Tunisian urban population living in areas serviced with landfills and
Landfill Gas Generation systems (LFG), in which environmental impacts and odor
pollution have been controlled, and in which open dumps have been rehabilitated or closed.
The target was 63.5 percent and it was reported to be 63 percent at closing date, taking
account of the closure and rehabilitation of illegal dumps. This figure does not reflect the
real situation, however, as the construction and implementation of new landfills were
stopped after the 2011 revolution, because of strong opposition from nearby communities.

57. There were two new output indicators related to the institutional development
component following project restructuring. The first one, a review of PRONGID’s
performance and endorsement of a new sector policy action plan by ANGed’s Board, was
not met, but this shortcoming is expected to be overcome shortly. Under the second
indicator, ANGed is equipped with new tools for planning information management,
monitoring and evaluation, and a Geographical Information System (GIS) was
implemented and is operational.

                                            12
58. The targets for the two output indicators related to the infrastructure component
as revised during project restructuring have almost been met (number of landfills
equipped with landfill gases treatment systems as per the CDM requirements, and number
of open dumps closed). However, the work to equip cells 4 and 5 of Djebel Chekir, which
has the largest production potential, was not completed by the closing date.

3.3 Efficiency
59. Efficiency is rated low. The economic rate of return of the project was estimated at 24
percent in the PAD with a 12 percent discount rate. The capital cost of the project was
US$27.42 million. The recurrent costs were estimated at 2 percent of investment cost. The
total benefits from the sale of carbon emission reductions were estimated at US$39.79
million through the end of 2015. The environmental benefits of the closure of seven
uncontrolled dumpsites were estimated at US$2.75 million, by analyzing the increase in
land prices in the vicinity of the dumpsites that would occur following their closure. The
dumpsite sub-component was completed at a lower cost than anticipated, but still yielded
larger than expected benefits. The ex post rate of return of the biogas investment is negative
(see Annex 3 for details).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: U

60. The objective of the project was and remains relevant. It was not achieved, however,
and the efficiency of waste management has not improved. The revised targets for the two
outcome indicators have not been met and the ex post rate of return of the biogas
component is negative. The strengthening of the institutional and financial sustainability
of municipal solid waste management (SMW) was expected to be achieved through the
operationalization of a planning and implementation system of SWM at the regional and
local levels, but this was not done. The strengthening of the environmental sustainability
of SWM was expected to be achieved through the rehabilitation of a number of
environmentally harmful dumpsites, but unfortunately benefits of the rehabilitation have
been undermined by the proliferation of illegal dumps following the revolution in 2011.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
61. Great care was taken during project implementation to better assess and improve
the livelihoods of waste pickers, who are among the poorest of the poor. A census and a
socio-economic survey of waste pickers were carried out, and a local NGO was recruited
to raise awareness among them on security and health issues. A vaccination campaign was
carried out. By the end of the project,the number of waste pickers in the landfills had
increased and there was no change in their traditional lifestyle. There is however more
awareness of their security, particularly in Bizerte, where an arrangement has been
negotiated with the waste pickers, so that only a limited number of them are present on site
at the same time.



                                             13
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
62. The institutional development component of the project was much delayed . The
recruitment of consultants took much more time than initially planned, in part because
several calls for proposals were declared unsuccessful, and others because the central
procurement commission rejected the recommendations of the project management unit.
The Geographical Information System (GIS) has been developed, a unit to maintain it has
been established in ANGed, and its staff has been trained. A diagnostic of the organization
and performance of the department in charge of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs)
in ANPE has been completed and a database has been established to monitor
implementation of Environmental Management Plans (EMPs).

63. During project implementation, ANGed gained considerable experience and
evolved into a strong support institution for the development of the solid waste
management sector. It has become familiar with the DBO approach, which it is now using
for all biogas investment and exploitation contracts. It has acquired solid experience in
monitoring key parameters for methane avoidance and auditability of mitigation actions. It
still needs to prepare procedure manuals for its main functions and other operational tools.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
64. There were no unintended outcomes or impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
65. No workshop was held, only a meeting with the members of the project committee
(see section 7).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

66. The development objective was not achieved. But some environmental progress was
achieved with the rehabilitation of open dumps and financially with the access to carbon
credit finance. The environmental dimension of sustainability is however jeopardized by
the proliferation of new open dumps and development mechanisms for communication
with the citizens about construction and operation of landfills would be needed. The
valuable experiences with the emerging global markets for carbon credits and production
of gas are important and continued technical assistance for production and negotiations on
credits must be sustained.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: MU

67. The sector analysis presented in the PAD was limited. The objective of the project was
relevant, but a political economy analysis could have shown that the context was not
favorable for building up the sustainability of the solid waste management system. Before

                                            14
the revolution, the government had no interest in promoting decentralization and had a
tendency to focus on infrastructure development to solve problems. The project design was
simple, which was adequate for a first operation in the sector. The project was not part of
the lending program proposed in the 2004 CAS, but in a period of declining Bank
commitments, the project was a good opportunity to introduce Tunisia, the most advanced
country in the region on environmental issues, to the emerging market of carbon credits.
The risk analysis did not cover all relevant aspects and the results framework was not
realistic. The ICR agrees with the 2007 QAG’s assessment that the objective was modest
and the design simple (see paragraph 35 above), but weaknesses mentioned here affect the
rating for quality at entry.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: MS

68. Supervision was adequate overall. Aide-memoires were informative and issue-
oriented. Fiduciary and safeguards issues were consistently addressed. Bank missions
provided valuable support to the implementing agency and Tunisian authorities in
addressing project implementation issues. Action plans were prepared and monitored.
When it became clear that the volume of gas collected was well below expectations, the
Bank decided to intensify supervision of this component through quarterly visits of its
expert in the area. In the early years, the Bank could have been more proactive in helping
ANGed move the institutional development component. The Mid-Term Review and the
restructuring intervened too late. After the restructuring, supervision missions did their best
to support the institution development component. In particular, they worked hard with
ANGed to ensure that the terms of reference of the strategic review of PRONGID would
lead to a study with concrete proposals for reform.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: MU

69. Supervision efforts could not overcome the issues, which were not adequately
addressed during project preparation or were beyond Bank control.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: MU

70. The Government supported the objective of the project and expressed interest in
the findings of the supervision missions, but did not ensure that the objective of the
project would be achieved. The Government could have changed the management of the
sector to make it more cost efficient. It continued with a top down approach in dealing with
local governments and was heavily involvement in the procurement process, thus
contributing to implementation delays of the institutional development component.
Eventually, the post revolution Government managed to adopt a new Constitution
emphasizing decentralization approved in January 2014, which opened up opportunities
for improving solid waste management at the municipal level.


                                              15
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: MS

71. Early on, ANGed did a remarkable job in moving the infrastructure component
forward, but delayed the recruitment of consultants for the institutional development
component. As a result, too little was done to establish the bases for a more sustainable
municipal management of solid waste. Indeed, after the 2011 Revolution, the pace of
project implementation slowed down.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: MU

6. Lessons Learned
72. The opportunity to give Tunisia access to carbon credit finance was a key driver
for this innovative project and a very relevant objective. Tunisia was the most advanced
country in the MENA region in addressing environmental issues, and it made sense to help
the country benefit from this new source of finance. However, the assessment of the
potential for emission reductions was conducted through a process over which the Bank
had no control. The model used by CDM (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change -
IPCC 1996) was too rigid and highly optimistic, as was already clear following its 2006
revision. A more cautious approach in the economic analysis in view of the uncertainty
surrounding the reduction of emissions would have been appropriate.

73. Agreements can be negotiated with waste pickers. Some landfill operators have
learned how to accommodate a limited number of waste pickers at any time on their sites
after negotiations with waste pickers. Each country should develop guidelines on how to
deal with waste pickers looking for win-win solutions, taking into account recycling
procedures, local circumstances and waste pickers’ traditional lifestyle. In view of the
small percentage of waste recycled at project inception (about 8 percent) it would have
been useful to put more emphasis on this aspect in the project. In that respect, waste pickers
play a useful recycling role in the solid waste management chain. Apart from the social
problem, their presence on sanitary landfills is a serious constraint, especially when there
are too many of them on site simultaneously.

74. It is urgent to develop a mechanism for consultations with communities on where
to erect new facilities, and implement a solid communication strategy. Closing and
rehabilitating illegal dumps have contributed to improving the living conditions of
neighboring communities but the proliferation of illegal dumps since the 2011 revolution,
a consequence of popular opposition to the opening of new landfills, has undermined the
benefits of a key action under the project. This situation cannot be allowed to persist.

75. Strengthening the sustainability of municipal waste management in a highly
centralized system of government with little autonomy and accountability at the local
level is a daunting task. This would require building up a sound public financial system
at the local level, including improved revenue mobilization and increased efficiency of
public expenditures, which was not a government priority. The institutional development

                                             16
component was neglected because of the government inclination to put the emphasis more
on top down physical investments than on bottom up approaches. A political economy
analysis during preparation, particularly in a sector such as SWM, may have helped to
identify issues more clearly.

76. The reform of the solid waste management system is a long-term process. Because
of the complexity of the issues, a series of operations are needed to build up the
sustainability of the system. The project’s limited achievements include the strengthening
of ANGed as an apex institution for the sector. In view of the urgency posed by the rapid
deterioration of the environment due to the proliferation of illegal dumps, the Bank should
continue its long-term involvement in the sector. Building upon its recent support to urban
development, it should envisage a programmatic approach emphasizing: (i) cost reductions
through integration of operations at the municipal level, inter-communality and contracting
out to the private sector; (ii) improved cost recovery from collection, to transport and to
treatment; and (iii) improved sorting and recycling.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
77. Members of the Steering Committee praised the elimination of illegal dumps. They
regretted that the 2011 Revolution led to delays in project implementation, paralysis in
developing new landfills and reversals in the illegal dumping issue. They insisted on the
need to complete the strategic review of PRONGID and to implement a communications
strategy rapidly. They welcomed Bank support for the new project in support of
municipalities approved in 2014. They agreed that municipalities should be responsible for
the entire chain of solid waste management with ANGed’s technical support. They
suggested that micro projects be developed with NGOs to test different approaches to
address the issue of integrating the waste pickers into the system. Finally, they requested
that the Bank provide further support to the sector.

(b) Co-financiers
78. GIZ has been closely involved in the solid waste sector through a number of initiatives,
including participation in METAP and now in Sweep.net, a regional network committed
to sharing information and new approaches among solid waste agencies in the region. GIZ
highlighted that technical solutions alone cannot solve problems. The active involvement
of communities affected by solid waste activities through public hearings and other
methods is essential. The cost of solid waste management can be significantly reduced
through the sorting and recycling of trash. In the case of Tunisia, the tourism industry is
part of the problem. It should also be part of the solution.

79. GIZ also insisted on the need for improved cooperation among agencies involved in
the sector and inter-municipal cooperation to create larger units.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
NA


                                            17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in Euro Millions equivalent*)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
          Components                                 Estimate Euro
                                  (Euro millions)                                 Appraisal
                                                        millions)
Component 1: Institutional
                                           1,374.05             106.14                         7.7%
Support and Capacity Building
Component 2: Infrastructure
                                          16,671.76          15,260.34                       91.5%
Construction
Cell 5 Djebel Chekir                       4,045.80           3,650.42                       90.2%
Biogas                                     7,053.44           7,358.45                      104.3%
Rehabilitation open dumps                  5,572.52           4,251.47                       76.3%
Component 3: Project
                                             534.35               19.35                        3.6%
management and monitoring
             Total Baseline Cost          18,549.62          15,385.84                       82.9%
Contingencies                                 2,335.88                                         0.00
                                                                        0.00

            Total Project Costs              20,916.03             15,385.84                 73.6%
     Total Financing Required                16,800.00             15,385.84                 91.6%
                                                                    *At appraisal: US$1.31 = EUR 1.00



(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of Co      Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                          financing       (Euro       (Euro      Appraisal
                                                         millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                  4.12        0.75       18.2%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                           16.80         14.63           87.1%
and Development




                                               18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Institutional Support and Capacity-Building

Sub-component 1: Institutional support and capacity building for ANGed.
    ANGed’s organization and training program. Not achieved. The bidding process
      started in May 2013. Only one proposal was received. In February 2014, the central
      procurement commission rejected the proposal.
    Preparation of procedures manual for main ANGed functions and operations. Not
      achieved.
    Support for the creation of a Planning and International Cooperation Unit. Unit
      exists.
    Support for the creation of a Support Unit for Municipalities and Communes. Unit
      exists, but not operational.
    Support for ANGed in financing landfill management and ensuring the financial
      and operational viability of landfills, opening up activities to the private sector and
      developing a procurement regulation system. Achieved.
    Development of appropriate systems for procurement of integrated municipal solid
      waste management services. Not achieved.
    Cost optimization and financial monitoring systems. Not achieved.
    Techno-economic study on the optimization of Djebel Chekir. Achieved.
    Computerized management system for the monitoring and control of emission
      reductions and CDM activities. A Geographical Information System (GIS) has been
      developed and is operational; training has been provided to staff.
    Communication strategy. Not achieved. Bidding process started in November 2012.
      Contract signed in March 2014.

Sub-component 2: Regional planning, inter-community and cost optimization.
The preparation of municipal solid waste management plans in eight governorates has been
abandoned and replaced by a strategic review of PRONGID. Not done. The contract was
signed in January 2014, but it was suspended because of replacement of key experts.

Sub-component 3: Institutional support and capacity building for ANPE.
    Revision of the ToRs for the impact study for projects involving waste collection,
      transport, disposal, recycling, rehabilitation and treatment. Achieved.
    Development of sectoral guidelines for Environment Impact Assessments and
      building competencies in ANPE and ANGed. Achieved.
    Training of the supervisory personnel responsible for evaluating Environmental
      Management Plans. Not achieved.

Sub-component 4: Mitigation of social impacts.
A local NGO has been recruited to prepare and implement an action plan. A census of
waste pickers has been completed. Waste pickers have been vaccinated. A dialogue with
waste pickers on security issues and opportunities for reinsertion has been conducted. The
last Bank supervision mission in June 2014 was concerned by the deterioration at the


                                             19
Djebel Chekir landfill. Out of about 316 waste pickers, the mission observed the presence
of 44 children, due to lax access control.

Component 2: Infrastructure Construction

Sub-component 1: Construction of cell 5 of Djebel Chekir landfill.
Construction of cell 5 was completed in July 2010. It was expected to meet the Greater
Tunis requirements up to end-2013. A second landfill was planned for the Greater Tunis
area on the site of Kabouti. Implementation of the project was initiated, but stopped after
the 2011 Revolution in the face of strong opposition from neighboring communities.
ANGed then decided to develop cell 6 on the Djebel Chekir site. For technical reasons,
construction could not start immediately. Accordingly, ANGed has developed an
intermediary cell with a smaller capacity, which is now operational.

Sub-component 2: Collection and treatment of landfill gases.
Implementation of this sub-component was delayed. Collection and treatment of gasses
was completed for cells 1, 2 and 3 of Djebel Chekir. The system for gas extraction is still
not installed on cells 4 and 5, which have a much higher potential than the three cells under
development. ANGed intends to mobilize funds for equipping these two cells in 2015.

The sub-component included the collection and treatment of gas in the first cell of nine
landfills. The scope of this sub-component was reduced during project restructuring to
seven landfills. The exploitation of Bizerte, Gabès and Djerba started in August 2010.
Exploitation of Sfax and Medenine started in June 2011. Development of Sousse started in
February 2014 and of Monastir in September 2014.

Delays in gas collection and treatment has led to much lower emission reductions than
expected and Tunisia is in default regarding its contract with the Bank on behalf of the
Italian Carbon Fund.

Sub-component 3: Rehabilitation of priority open dumps. Seven open dumps have been
rehabilitated, all before 2010, which has improved the living conditions for the nearby
residents. However, this result is seriously challenged by with the emergence of a large
number of illegal dumps since the 2011 Revolution.




                                             20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic analysis in the PAD shows that the income from the selling of Certified
Emission Reductions (CERs) constituted the bulk of expected benefits, estimated at
US$39.79 million through the end of 2015. The volume of emission reductions was
expected to reach a cumulative 3.4 million tons of CO2 at Djebel Chekir and 3.2 million
tons of CO2 at the nine regional landfills. Using current international carbon prices of
between US$6 and US$7 per ton of CO2 equivalent, the total amount of sales would reach
between US$39.5 million and US$46.1 million.

Actual emission reductions up to end 2013 were a small fraction of expectations, 0.4
million tons instead of 5 million tons, or 8.1 percent, of which 10.2 percent for Djebel
Chekir and 5.4 percent for the regional landfills. The benefit stream started later than
expected (3 years later for Djebel Chekir and 4 years later for the regional landfills), and
volumes were much lower than expected, as shown in table 1 below.

Table 1: Emission reductions (thousand tons of CO2)
 Year        Djebel     Djebel      Other       Other             Total         Total
             Chekir     Chekir      landfills   landfills         Potential     Actual
             Potential  Actual      Potential   Actual
 2007        334.1                  21.7                          335.8
 2008        369.3                  125.0                         494.4
 2009        401.2      66.3        228.4                         629.6         66.3
 2010        430.0      55.3        343.6       1                 773.7         56.3
 2011        456.1      42.8        440.2       14.7              896.3         57.5
 2012        412.7      50.6        501.1       45,1              963.8         95.7
 2013        373.3      68.3        504.7       59.0              878.1         127.3
 2014        337.8      19.8*       503.9                         841.7         19.8*
 2015        305.6                  505.9                         811.5
* up to end-March 2014

Gross payments made for emission reductions up to end-March 2014 amounted to US$2.47
million at Djebel Chekir, and to US$1.08 million at the regional landfills, for a total of
US$3.55 million. In the contract, the price of a ton of CO2 was set at US$7 for the period
up to end 2012 and US$11 after the 2012 contract amendment. The average market price
of a ton of CO2 on the CDM market was US$13 during 2008-12. It crashed to an average
of US$0.51 in 2013, and has not recovered since.

After deductions for advance payments, project preparation costs, the Kyoto protocol and
other costs of US$15.1 million, the net payments should have been negative. Table 2 shows
the stream of revenues from Djebel Chekir and Table 3, from the other landfills.




                                            21
Table 2: Revenues from Djebel Chekir (US$)
 Period                 Gross revenues         Deductions         Net amount
 11/13/2008 to end                   851,557            3,652,200        (2,800,943)
 2010
 1/1/2011 to                         442,261            2,825,943        (2,382,682)
 05/31/2012
 6/1/2012 to                      1,179,009*            2,382,682        (1,203,673)
 3/31/2014
 Total                             2,473,827            8,861,125        (6,387,298)
* verified up to end-2012, certified afterwards.

Table 3: Revenues from other landfills (US$)
 Period                 Gross revenues         Deductions         Net amount
 8/1/2010 to end                                        1,960,000        (1,960,000)
 2010
 1/1/2011 to                         195,237            2,155,237        (1,960,000)
 05/31/2012
 6/1/2012 to                        888,215*            2,039,763        (1,151,548)
 3/31/2014
 Total                             1,083,452            6,155,000        (5,071,548)
* verified up to end-2012, certified afterwards.

Total gross revenues from all landfills up to end March 2014 amounted to US$3.55 million
and net revenues to a negative US$11.46 million.

The rates of return on the biogas investment are very negative, minus 27 percent assuming
the biogas investment on cells 4 and 5 of Djebel Chekir are completed in 2015, and minus
32 percent if this investment is not achieved. In both cases, it is assumed that for a ton of
CO2, US$11 will be paid through the end of 2018.

The closing and rehabilitating open dumps was not expected to have a positive economic
rate of return. Costs were estimated at US$7.3 million and benefits of this activity at
US$2.75 million. The actual cost was 24 percent lower than anticipated.




                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                              Title                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
 Sherif Kamel F. Arif       Consultant                               GEFVP
 Siaka Bakayoko             Lead Financial Management Spec           GGODR
 Mohammed A. Bekhechi       Consultant                               GSURR
 Hocine Chalal              Lead Environmental Specialist            GENDR
 Concepcion Esperanza Del
                            Consultant                             MNSWA - HIS
Castillo
 Marie A. F. How Yew Kin    Language Program Assistant               GENDR
 Georges Raphael Khoury-
                            Consultant                             EASIS - HIS
Haddad
 Dahlia Lotayef             Lead Environmental Specialist            GENDR
 Ahmed Mohamed Khaled
                            Technical Specialist                     GCCCF
Mostafa Abdel Wahid
 M. Yaa Pokua Afriyie
                            Senior Social Development Specialist     GSURR
Oppong
 Andrea Pinna               Senior Environmental Specialist          GCCCF
 Maria Sarraf               Lead Environment Specialist              GENDR
Supervision/ICR
 Sherif Kamel F. Arif       Consultant                               GEFVP
 Mohammed A. Bekhechi       Consultant                               GSURR
 Slaheddine Ben-Halima      Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPE - HIS
 Cynthia Bleu-Laine         Consultant                              GFMDR
 François Boulanger         Sr. Urban Economist                    MNSSU - HIS
 Hocine Chalal              Lead Environmental Specialist            GENDR
 Tiguist Fisseha            Disaster Risk Management Specialist      GSURR
 Jaafar Sadok Friaa         Program Leader                           SACPK
 Gael Gregoire              Sr Policy Officer                        CESPQ
 Harvey Himberg             Consultant                               OPSOR
 Marie A. F. How Yew Kin    Language Program Assistant               GENDR
 Georges Raphael Khoury-
                            Consultant                             EASIS - HIS
Haddad
 Annick Lachance            HQ Consultant ST                        GWADR
 Mohamed Mehdi              HQ Consultant ST                       MNAFM - HIS
 M. Yaa Pokua Afriyie
                            Senior Social Development Spec           GSURR
Oppong
 Rolf Parta                 HQ Consultant ST                         BPSVP
 Katelijn Van den Berg      Senior Environmental Economist           GENDR
 Hans Willumsen             HQ Consultant ST                         GSURR
Philip Winchell Bottern     Senior Social Development Specialist     GSURR
Jérôme Chevallier           ICR Author                              Consultant

                                            23
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                       0                         0.45
  FY06                                      30.78                    208.16
  FY07                                      19.37                     91.36
  FY08
  FY09
  FY10
  FY11
  FY12
  FY13
  FY14
  FY15
                          Total:            50.15                    299.52
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                       2.15                     10.91
  FY08                                       7.88                    106.12
  FY09                                       3.27                     45.49
  FY10                                       5.34                     55.41
  FY11                                      12.71                     84.12
  FY12                                      12.63                     90.88
  FY13                                      12.68                    110.95
  FY14                                       9.18                    106.69
  FY15                                       2.00                     30.22
                          Total:            67.84                    640.79




                                       24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
No surveys were carried out.




                                      25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
See para 7a in main text about a meeting with members of the Steering Committee.




                                          26
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Borrower had not provided an ICR or comments on the draft ICR as of December 20,
2014.




                                        27
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
See para. 7b in main text.




                                    28
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

      Association Environnement et Citoyenneté. Djebel Chekir landfill: socio-
       economic challenges and restructuration
      GIZ: Cost of environmental degradation due to solid waste management in
       Greater Tunis. May 2014
      GIZ: Challenges and Opportunities for Solid Waste Management in the Mashreq
       and Maghreb Region. April 2014
      World Bank: State and Trends in Carbon Pricing. May 2014
      World Bank: Urban Development and Local Governance Program Project. PAD,
       May 2014
      World Bank: Country Opinion Survey. March 2014
      World Bank: Country Program Evaluation, Approach Paper. April 2013
      World Bank: Interim Strategy Note, FY13-14. May 2012
      World Bank: Country Partnership Strategy FY10-13. November 2009
      World Bank: Country Assistance Strategy FY05-08. June 2004
      World Bank: Country Environmental Analysis. April 2004




                                        29
