 IEG
                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14729

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 05/28/2015

               Country: Tunisia
             Project ID: P095012                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Tunisia: Sustainable        Project Costs (US$M):             Euro 20.92            Euro 15.4
                         Municipal Solid Waste
                         Management Proje
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                Euro 16.8           Euro 14.6
      Sector Board:      Urban Development           Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                            03/13/2007
                                                              Closing Date:             06/30/2012      06/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Solid waste management (78%); Central government administration (17%); Sub-national
                          government administration (4%); Other social services (1%)
         Theme(s):        City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery (29%); Pollution management and
                          environmental health (29%); Other human development (14%); Environmental policies and
                          institutions (14%); Climate change (14%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Victoria Alexeeva      Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Loan Agreement (p. 5) of March 22, 2007, the objective of the project is “to assist the Borrower
    in strengthening the sustainability of municipal solid waste management through: (i) the establishment of a solid
    waste management planning and implementation system; and (ii) the closing and rehabilitation of certain
    environmentally damaging dump sites.”

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (p. 7) states that the project objective is “to assist the Tunisian
    Government in strengthening the key elements of sustainability of municipal solid waste management." It further
    specified that this objective was be achieved through the establishment of a solid waste management planning
    and implementation system at the national and local levels and through the rehabilitation of a number of
    environmentally damaging dump sites. These actions were to enable the Tunisian Government to enter the
    emerging global market of carbon credits through the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) introduced under
    the Kyoto Protocol.

    This Review will use the project development objective in the Loan Agreement as basis for the validation.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:
   Component 1: Institutional support and capacity building (appraisal estimate Euro 1.37 million, actual Euro
   106,140 (7.7% of appraisal estimate)) was to finance technical assistance for: i) institutional support and capacity
   building for the National Agency for Waste Management (ANGed), ii) regional planning, inter-communality and
   cost optimization; iii) institutional support and capacity building for the National Environmental Protection Agency
   (ANPE); and iv) mitigation of social impacts. This component was also supposed to support the establishment of
   a decentralized municipal solid waste management system at the regional and inter-municipal level to implement
   gradual measures for obtaining cost-optimization and cost-recovery.

   Component 2: Infrastructure construction , landfill gas collection and treatment , and dumpsites rehabilitation
   (appraisal estimate Euro 16.7 million, actual Euro 15.3 million (92% of appraisal estimate)) was to finance three
   sub-components i) construction of cell Nr 5 at Djebel Chekir landfill; ii) collection and treatment of landfill gasses
   in the Djebel Chekir landfill and in the first cell of the nine landfills; and iii) rehabilitation of seven open dumps.

   Component 3: Project management and monitoring (appraisal estimate Euro 534,350, actual Euro 19,350 (3.6%
   of appraisal estimate)) was to finance technical assistance to the Project Management Unit for the
   implementation and monitoring of the project.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Costs: The project was estimated to cost Euro 20.9 million (equivalent to US$ 27.4 million). Actual cost
   was Euro 15.4 million, 74% of appraisal due to cancellation of a number of activities.

   Financing: Of the original IBRD loan of Euro 16.8 million (US$ 22 million equivalent), Euro 2.17 million was
   cancelled. The Loan was disbursed at Euro 14.63 (US$ 20.71 million equivalent).

   As part of carbon finance, IBRD committed to purchasing 50 percent of the credits generated by the reduction of
   emissions in the sanitary landfills supported by the project. The Verified Emission Reduction Purchase
   Agreement was signed between the Government of Tunisia and IBRD as Trustee of the Italian Carbon Fund in
   2006. As a result of delays in gas collection and treatment, actual emission reductions were much lower than
   expected at project closure (at 8% by end of 2013), and gas production continued to be monitored beyond the
   project closing date.

   Borrower Contribution : At appraisal, the Borrower’s contribution was estimated at Euro 4.12 million. Actual
   financing was Euro 0.75 million.

   Dates: On June 21, 2012 the project was restructured and the following modifications were made:
       1. The closing date was extended from June 30, 2012 to June 30, 2014 due to delays.
       2. The following components activities were revised: i) the regional municipal solid waste management
           plans were replaced by an independent strategic review of the national solid waste management
           program (PRONGID); ii) the number of landfill gazes (LFG) collection systems the project invested in
           outside of Tunis was reduced from nine to seven; iii) the Results Framework was updated to reflect the
           change in project components and adapt targets; iv) disbursement categories were reallocated to
           include the additional category of eligible expenditures for training activities.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial: At appraisal, in Tunisia almost 60% of waste was deposited on 400 open dump sites which lacked
   basic infrastructure and presented a high risk in terms of water and air pollution, and dissemination of diseases
   (PAD p.2). In order to address this challenge, the Government of Tunisia was implementing several reforms
   including the development of a legal framework and a national solid waste management program (PRONGID),
   the promotion of private sector participation in this field, and the establishment of the National Waste
   Management Agency (ANGed). Waste Management was also included in Tunisia’s National Development Plan
   (2002-2006). The closure of unregulated dumps was part of the Presidential initiative, and the Government of
   Tunisia requested Bank assistance to participate in the greenhouse gas reduction credits.

   Even though the project was not part of the lending program which was proposed in the Bank’s Country
   Assistance Strategy (2005-2008) for Tunisia, the strategy identified solid waste management as well as
   environmental investments as critical areas for action. The Country Partnership Strategy (2010-2013) included
   improving modalities of public private partnerships for waste management under its sustainable development and
   climate change pillar. The Bank's Interim Strategy Note for fiscal years 2013 and 2014 supported empowerment
   of municipalities to deliver improved services.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest: The project design was complex and included some innovative aspects such as the introduction of the
   Design-Built Operate approach for gas collection and treatment to maximize emission reductions and the gas
   recovery component to allow Tunisia to benefit from the sale of carbon emission reductions. The project was the
   first project in the Middle East and Northern Africa region linking investments in waste management with income
   derived from the reduction of carbon emissions. The planned activities for establishing a solid waste
   management planning and implementation system included support in preparation of solid waste management
   plans at the national and sub-national levels. Technical assistance was to be provided to improve financing of
   landfill management and ensuring financial and operational viability of landfills.

   The project design had several shortcomings. Strengthening the sustainability of municipal waste management in
   a highly centralized environment with limited autonomy and accountability at the local level presented a major
   challenge. The institutional component was apparently designed without consideration of the political economy,
   and as a result, the elaboration of master plans for the sustainable management of waste in eight governorates
   had to be cancelled during implementation. Also, the project design only allowed for a limited improvement of
   public private partnerships since most contracts for the management of landfills had been signed before project
   approval.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Assist the Borrower in strengthening the sustainability of municipal solid waste management through : (i) the
   establishment of a solid waste management planning and implementation system ; and (ii) the closing and
   rehabilitation of certain environmentally damaging dump sites .

   Original outcome targets: Negligible
   Revised outcome targets : Modest

   Output:

        An independent strategic review of the National Solid Waste Management Program (PRONGID) to evaluate
         its economic, environmental and social performance at the national and local levels was not completed at
         project closure. The contract was signed in January 2014 but suspended due to replacement of key experts.
        A planning and international cooperation unit and a support unit for municipalities and communes were
         established. The support unit is not operational.
        A geographical information system (GIS) for information management, monitoring and evaluation was
         developed for ANGed and is operational.
        Sectoral guidelines for Environment Impact Assessments were developed for the National Environmental
         Protection Agency (ANPE) and the National Agency for Waste Management (ANGed).
        An action plan was prepared on mitigation of social impacts; vaccination and a dialogue with waste pickers
         on security issues and opportunities for reinsertion was conducted.
        Dropped TA activities: (i) development of the regional municipal solid waste management plans in the eight
         Governorates of Bizerte, Nabeul, Sousse, Monastir, Kairouan, Sfax, Gabes and Medenine; (ii) development
         of appropriate systems for procurement of integrated municipal solid waste management services;(iii) cost
         optimization and financial monitoring systems; (iv) TA for ANGed's organization and training; (v) preparation
         of procedures manual for main ANGed's functions and operations.
        A techno- economic study on the optimization of Djebel Chekir was conducted.
        Cell 5 of Djebel Chekir landfill was constructed, as planned. A second landfill for the Greater Tunis area was
         supposed to be constructed, however, after the revolution in 2011, there was a strong opposition in
         neighboring communities and the construction had to be stopped. ANGed intended to build cell 6 on the
         Djebel Chekir site instead but could not move forward with the plan due to technical issues. As a result,
         ANGed built an intermediary cell with a smaller capacity
        The revised target of 8 landfills equipped with landfill gas treatment systems was partially achieved. The first
         cells of seven landfills outside the Greater Tunis area were equipped (the original target was reduced by two
         landfills due to their low potential for carbon reduction). As for the Djebel Chekir landfill, collection and
         treatment of gas was completed on Cells 1,2 and 3, however Cells 4 and 5 had not been fully equipped yet
         by project closure. The ICR p.20 reports that ANGed intended to mobilize funds for equipping these two cells
         in 2015.
        Seven open dump sites were closed, achieving the target. However, the ICR states (p.20) that after the
         revolution, a large number of illegal dumps developed.

    Outcome
      The total GoT's revenue from selling Certified Emissions Reductions was US$3.55 million at project closure,
        which was 7% of the original target of US$20 million, and 85% of the revised target of US$4.2 million, due to
        delays in gas collection and treatment.
      63% of the Tunisian urban population are reported by the ICR to live in areas serviced with sanitary landfills,
        in which environmental impacts and odor pollution have been controlled, and in which open dumps have
        been rehabilitated or closed. While the target of 63.5% of this new indicator (added at restructuring in 2012)
        was almost achieved, the ICR p.12 states that this does not reflect the reality as the construction and
        implementation of new landfills was stopped after the 2011 revolution due to strong opposition from nearby
        communities.
      The ICR para 54 reports that the new tools for improving sustainability in the sector had not been
        implemented by project closure, and expectations that the institutional development component would lead
        to the elaboration of master plans for the sustainable management of waste in eight governorates were not
        met. The technical capacity of municipalities in waste collection was weakened by the destruction of
        equipment during the 2011 revolution, and the efficiency of their operations remained low, as most of the
        municipalities continued to use force account without effective cost control in solid waste management.
        Waste collection services worsened in the last years of project implementation, with a visible increase in
        litter on municipal roads.
      According to the ICR p.14, ANGed's acquired experience in monitoring key parameters for methane
        avoidance and auditability of mitigation actions. The revised target of a new sector policy action plan
        endorsed by ANGed's Board was not met.

5. Efficiency:

    The PAD (p. 67) conducted a cost-benefit analysis comparing project costs (investment and recurrent costs) w
    ith benefits (revenues from the sale of carbon emissions reductions and environmental benefits) which were
    anticipated to be generated by this project. The ex-ante Economic Rate of Return was estimated at 24%, a Net
    Present Value (NPV) of US$ 3.2 million and a Cost-Benefit Ratio of 1.1. The income from the selling of Certified
    Emission Reductions (CERs) constituted the bulk of expected benefits, estimated at US$39.79 million through
    the end of 2015. The volume of emission reductions was expected to reach a cumulative 3.4 million tons of CO2
    at Djebel Chekir and 3.2 million tons of CO2 at the nine regional landfills. Using international carbon prices of
    between US$6 and US$7 per ton of CO2 equivalent at that time, the total amount of sales were expected to
    reach between US$39.5 million and US$46.1 million.

    According to the ICR (p. 21), actual emission reductions were significantly lower than anticipated at appraisal, at
    0.4 million tons instead of 5 million tons, or 8.1 percent, of which 10.2 percent for Djebel Chekir and 5.4 percent
    for the regional landfills. Benefit streams started three years later than expected, and volumes were much lower.
    Also, CO2 prices were at US$0.51 in 2013, much lower than expected. Total gross revenues from all landfills up
    to end March 2014 amounted to US$3.55 million and net revenues to a negative US$11.46 million.

    The rates of return on the biogas investment are negative, minus 27% assuming the biogas investment on cells 4
    and 5 of Djebel Chekir are completed in 2015, and minus 32 percent if this investment is not achieved.

    Aside from the 2011 revolution in the country, the project's implementation efficiency was largely affected by slow
    procurement and technical problems at the landfills, including lack of sufficient drainage equipment, difficulties
    with adjustment of valves to secure the right mix from different gas pumps and condensation in pipes.

    Efficiency is rated negligible.



a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         Yes                                     24%                                     86%
    ICR estimate                      No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
6. Outcome:

   Under the original outcome targets : The project is rated negligible on the two criteria--efficacy and efficiency,
   therefore the project outcome is rated Highly Unsatisfactory.

   Under the revised outcome targets : The project is rated negligible on one criteria- efficiency, and
   modest/substantial on the other criteria, therefore the project outcome is rated Unsatisfactory.

   Based on the disbursement shares of 92% (US$19.05 million) and 8% (US$1.66 million) prior to and subsequent
   to the revision of the key project outcome target during restructuring in 2012, the overall outcome rating is Highly
   Unsatisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The municipalities continue to face several challenges in solid waste management including lack of cost recovery
   , limited capacity, and increase in the amount of open dump sites. The ICR (p.15) adds that in January 2014, the
   post-revolution Government adopted a new Constitution, which emphasizes decentralization and opens
   opportunities for improving solid waste management at the municipal level. In July 2014, the Bank approved a
   Euro 217 million loan to help strengthen local government performance to deliver municipal services.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   According to the ICR (p. 8) the project took experiences from other countries into account, for example the
   Bank experience in the Philippines on the Design-Build-Operate approach, and received a “highly
   satisfactory” rating for implementation arrangements and environmental aspects and a “satisfactory” rating for
   all other aspects of the project by the Quality Assurance Group in October 2007. The ICR p.6 reports,
   however, that there were several aspects that were not clear from the project documents, for example how
   the project was going to contribute to cost optimization.

   During project preparation the Bank identified relevant risk factors, such as the government delaying the
   implementation of measures for cost recovery, ANGed’s inability to obtain necessary financing for the biogas
   component and rehabilitation of dump sites, and lack of interest of local communities in solid waste
   management. However, mitigation efforts were not sufficiently robust and some risk factors such as delays in
   the implementation of the institutional development component, disruptions in landfill operations due to waste
   collectors, and lower than anticipated revenues from emission reductions, were not included. There were
   serious shortcomings in project design that led to delays in project implementation and cancellation of a
   number of institutional activities (see Section 3b). The problems with the model used by CDM to estimate
   potential emission reductions were already obvious in 2006, and a more cautious approach in the economic
   analysis would have been appropriate (ICR, p.16).



  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   Overall, 13 missions were conducted over a 7-year project implementation period. According to the ICR
   (p.15), the project team assigned an expert to carry out quarterly visits to supervise the second component
   when the volume of collected gas was significantly below expectations.
   According to the ICR (p. 15), the project team put a strong emphasis on supervising safeguard aspects, and
   fiduciary issues were addressed on a regular basis. The Bank restructured the project in June 2012 to make
   changes to the Results Framework and revise the components, including adjustment of the institutional
   component to the post-2011 revolution context, when regional and local councils were dissolved.

   However, supervision efforts could not overcome the issues, which were not adequately addressed during
   project preparation (ICR, p.15). In the early stages of project implementation, it was already apparent that
   landfill gas projects were underperforming relative to design expectations, and more conservative estimates
   of production could have been considered at that time. M&E issues were not included in aide memoires until
   the the mid-term review in February 2010. And the restructuring took place too late to make any significant
   difference to the outcomes.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government's commitment to the project was deemed to be strong. Tunisia was a regional leader of the
   solid waste management component of the Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program. The
   National Agency for Waste Management (ANGed), which was established in 2005 to work with municipalities
   on increasing efficiency and sustainability in solid waste management, was assigned to be the Implementing
   Agency. In January 2006, a steering committee to provide strategic advice and promote coordination
   between different agencies, was established. However, according to the ICR p.15, the Government had a top
   down approach in dealing with local governments and was heavily involved in the procurement process, thus
   contributing to delays in the implementation of the institutional development component. The Government of
   Tunisia was impacted by the 2011 revolution in the country, and all the officials involved in the decision
   making for the project were replaced (ICR, p.8).


  Government Performance Rating                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The ANGed was responsible for the implementation of the project. According to the ICR p. 16, during the
   early phase of project implementation ANGed mainly focused on the infrastructure component, and delayed
   the recruitment of consultants for the institutional development component. The ICR states (p. 10) that the
   project complied with financial management and procurement aspects. In terms of reporting, the ICR states
   (p. 10) that ANGed focused on monitoring of gas collection and did not include indicators to measure
   implementation progress in reports.

   According to the ICR (p. 16) implementation slowed down after the 2011 revolution. Also, illegal dumping of
   waste and waste pickers became an issue. ANGed developed an action plan and cooperated with a local
   Non-Governmental Agency (NGO) to improve the security of waste pickers. Despite this, the ICR states
   (p.10) that the problem of waste pickers persisted.

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
   The Results Framework in the PAD (p. 34-35) included two PDO indicators and five Intermediate Outcome
   Indicators. The design of the M&E had several weaknesses, and several modifications were made during the
   restructuring in June 2012. The ICR (p. 9) states that PDO indicator 1 ("improved modalities of public-private
   partnerships for waste management will reduce the shortfall in financing landfill operations by at least 10
   percent") was dropped due to the lack of baseline data and the challenge to measure the contribution of the
   project to achieving the target. The target of PDO indicator 2 ("the government of Tunisia enters the emerging
   market for carbon credits by selling Certified Emission Reductions with total revenues of US$ 20 million or more")
   was reduced from US$ 20 million to US$ 4.2 million since the original target had been highly overestimated. The
   methodology used for calculation of estimated revenues from selling Certified Emission Reductions was defined
   by the CDM, outside the Bank's control. A new PDO indicator ("the percentage of the Tunisian urban population
   living in areas serviced with sanitary landfills and large dump sites have been closed"), this indicator was found
   however not to properly reflect the reality a project closure. As for the intermediate indicators, a number of them
   were modified, some added, and several dropped.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The ICR (p. 10) states that the main monitoring emphasis was on gas collection and that M&E was not mentioned
   in any aide-memoire of supervision missions until the mid-term review in February 2010, when the supervision
   mission recommended that ANGed should include discussion of project indicators in its progress reports.
   Revisions to the results framework were first proposed in the end of 2011 (aide-memoire of November/December
   2011).

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR does not report on the utilization of M&E. Overall, monitoring of gas collection is required as part of
   carbon finance agreement, as payment is tied to documented performance.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as category B and triggered OP/BP 4.01(Environmental Assessment), OP/BP 4.12
   (Involuntary Resettlement). Tunisia was selected to pilot the use of country systems to address environmental
   and social safeguard issues in Bank projects (OP/BP 4.00) since it had an advanced regulatory framework. The
   national framework did not cover safeguard policy OP/BP 4.12 and a resettlement policy framework was
   developed. A detailed set of recommendations was developed in 2008 for several dumpsites to comply with the
   policy framework, and progress in implementing these recommendations was monitored by each subsequent
   Bank missions. The ICR (p.10) states all issues raised by the Bank team were addressed, except for the
   expropriation of land adjoining the rehabilitated dump of Ezzouhour-Sousse, which was still taking place at
   project closure.

   After the 2011 revolution, the police force was no longer able to control access to landfills and prevent the illegal
   dumping of waste. The May 2011 supervision mission observed an increase in the number of waste pickers,
   including children, on the Djebel Chekir landfill, and that earlier security measures were no longer enforced. The
   Bank team recommended that ANGed take immediate measures to ensure the security of waste pickers,
   accelerate the recruitment of the social expertise under the mitigation of social impacts subcomponent of the
   project, and prepare an action plan. With the help of a local NGO, progress was made in implementing the action
   plan and improving the conditions of waste pickers. Problems persisted, however, including the presence of 44
   children out of 316 waste pickers on the Djebel Chekir landfill in June 2014, compared to about a hundred waste
   pickers on the site before the revolution.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management : According to the ICR (p. 11) financial management was satisfactory, except at the end
   of project implementation when the submission of the audit reports for 2012 and 2013 was delayed; they were
   received in October 2014. Overall, six audit reports for the period 2008 to 2013 were issued and all had a clean
     opinion, as was subsequently confirmed by the project team.

     Procurement: According to the project team, the national procurement system was very complex and centralized
     and therefore very slow. The ICR (p.14) reports that the recruitment of consultants to implement the institutional
     component took much more time than initially planned, in part because several calls for proposals were declared
     unsuccessful, and others because the Central Procurement Commission rejected the recommendations of the
     project management unit.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Unsatisfactory               Highly Unsatisfactory Based on the disbursement shares of
                                                                                  92% and 8% prior to and subsequent to
                                                                                  the revision of the key project outcome
                                                                                  target during restructuring in 2012, the
                                                                                  overall outcome rating is Highly
                                                                                  Unsatisfactory.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Unsatisfactory        Project design had weaknesses at the
                              Unsatisfactory                                      outset, and supervision efforts could not
                                                                                  overcome issues, which were not
                                                                                  adequately addressed during project
                                                                                  preparation, thus affecting the project's
                                                                                  efficacy and efficiency.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

A number of lessons were selected from the ICR, with some adaptation of the language:

    In order to improve solid waste management at the municipal level, it is critical that lower government levels
     have sufficient autonomy and accountability.

    It is essential to develop a communication strategy with local communities to identify locations for new solid
     waste facilities. Under this project, opposition to opening of new landfills led to proliferation of illegal dump
     sites.

    It's important to develop solutions to integrate waste pickers into the solid waste management system. These
     will depend on recycling procedures, local circumstances, and waste pickers’ traditional lifestyle, among other
     factors.
The following lesson was identified by IEG:

    A close monitoring of carbon projects allows for the detection of poor performance to allow corrective actions.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes   No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


     The ICR is concise. It offers a critical overview of the project implementation experience. The ICR, however,
     provides very little or no information on such important aspects as project financing, financial management,
     procurement, and the Implementing Agency performance. In particular, as this was a carbon finance operation,
     the first mention of the carbon finance agreement signed by the Bank on behalf of the Italian Carbon Fund
     appears only in Annex 2, rather than the main text of the ICR. In covering fiduciary compliance, the ICR only
     reports on centralization of the procurement process and delay in the submission of audit reports (p.11). While
     some related material can be culled from throughout the ICR, the report could have paid more attention to the
     analysis of the Bank's fiduciary arrangements and its intervention in resolving procurement difficulties that arose
     affecting the project's efficacy and efficiency. The report should also have mentioned whether or not the external
     auditors' opinions were qualified; this information had to be subsequently sought from the project team. The
     discussion of the Implementation Agency performance lacks sufficient detail to support its moderately satisfactory
     rating.

   The ICR is not consistent and not clear in its analysis, in particular with regard to implementation of the
   infrastructure component. At mid-term review the Government was praised for the rapid and effective
   implementation of the infrastructure component, but then the overall analysis is structured around the fact that the
   project did not achieve its main outcome target due to delays in infrastructure. The ICR makes unclear and
   confusing statements, such as "the Government should have changed the management of the sector to make it
   more cost efficient" (p.15), and "frequent changes in the management structure did not solve the [institutional
   development component] issue" (p.9).
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
