Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/31/2005 
Report No.:  AC1387
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Turkey 
Project ID:  P093568 
Project Name:  Third Export Finance Intermediation Loan 
Task Team Leader:  Lalit Raina 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 1, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: May 26, 2005 
Managing Unit:  ECSPF 
Lending Instrument:  Financial 
Intermediary Loan 
Sector:  Banking (35%);Micro- and SME finance (35%);Other domestic and international 
trade (30%) 
Theme:  Small and medium enterprise support (P);Export development and 
competitiveness (P);Other financial and private sector development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
300.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: F - Financial Intermediary Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The proposed repeater project's main objective would be to continue to serve as a catalyst 
to support export and real sector growth in Turkey during the EFIL III implementation 
period (2005-2009) and beyond using the EFIL III reflows. To this end, the project would 
provide medium and long-term working capital and investment finance to Turkish private 
exporting enterprises, at the time when the economy is showing strong signs of 
rebounding from a recent slump and export performance is on the rise,thus increasing the 
demand for longer term credit, while the financial sector is still unable to support these 
trends with very much needed longer term funds at a reasonable cost.  
 
The secondary objective of the loan would be further improvement in the ability of the 
Turkish financial sector to provide financial resources to the enterprise sector, through 
further development of intermediation by private financial institutions, including banks 
and leasing companies. The project, through inclusion of leasing companies in addition to 
banks as PFIs, would enable the Bank to maintain a dialogue with the leasing sector in 
Turkey, provide an opportunity to gain more insight into the sector, and enable the Bank 
to support its development. The EFIL II experience, among other things, suggests that the 
dialogue between the Bank and the PFIs has a strong impact on establishing important 
Page  2
concepts by the PFIs of (i) environmentally sustainable lending, and (ii) long-term credit 
risk valuation of the borrowing companies. The EFIL III would continue to strengthen 
these concepts.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project will provide a Bank Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) in two currencies,US Dollars 
and Euro - of 16-year maturity, including a 6-year grace period, to TSKB, a private 
Turkish investment and development bank, for further on-lending to eligible private 
financial intermediaries consisting of banks and leasing companies. The financial 
intermediaries will further on-lend the credit line funds to eligible private Turkish 
exporters of goods and services. The Bank loan will be guaranteed by the Turkish 
Government on behalf of the Republic of Turkey, for which the Government will charge 
TSKB a guarantee fee. EFIL III will replicate the same basic project concept as EFIL II.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Istanbul, Turkey (location of the Borrower - TSKB Bank - and all of the financial 
intermediaries which will implement the Project). The sub-borrowers will be spread 
around the country.   
 
5. Environment & Social Specialist's Team 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Environmental Assessment policies (OP/BP 4.01) will apply to EFIL III. Environmental 
issues of sub-borrowers and their sub-projects will be addressed through the sub-loan 
environmental eligibility assessment. The environmental assessment will be carried 
according to environmental review procedures in the Operations Manual for the project. 
All environmental category III sub-projects will be subject to the Bank's prior review for 
Page  3
potential environmental impact purposes. There will be no large scale, significant, and/or 
irreversible impacts associated with the project.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
N/A   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The Borrower, during the course of the proposed Project?s predecessor EFIL II project, 
has developed institutional capacity to determine and monitor environmental risks of 
individual sub-projects.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
N/A   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/28/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/31/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/31/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The in-country disclosure for EFIL III of the Environmental Section of the Operations 
Manual will be done by TSKB through an advertisement in a local newspaper as well as 
on TSKB's website, explaining the environmental review guidelines applicable under 
EFIL III.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
Page  4
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA 
report? 
No 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Lalit Raina 
03/28/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
03/31/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
03/31/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
03/31/2005 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Gerardo M. Corrochano 
03/31/2005 
Comments:   
