                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                      Report No: ICR0000870



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-7295-0)



                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$201.5 MILLION AND 80.41 MILLION

                                     TO THE

              TÜRK YE SINA KALKINMA BANKASI A. . (TSKB)

                                    WITH THE

                 GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                     FOR THE

         THIRD EXPORT FINANCE INTERMEDIATION LOAN (EFIL III)


                               DECEMBER 20, 2009




Private and Financial Sector Development Department
ECCU6
Europe and Central Asia Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           Currency Unit = TL
                 Exchange Rate at ICR, December 15, 2009
                             US$1=1.4954 TL
                            US$1=0.6834 EUR
                Exchange Rate at Loan Closing, June 30, 2009
                             US$1=1.5247 TL
                            US$1=0.708 EUR
                           EUR 1=1.4126 US$
                 Exchange Rate at Appraisal, April 14, 2005
                         US$1=1.34 Turkish Lira
                             US$1=0.80 EUR

                     FISCAL YEAR- January - December

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BRSA            Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
EFIL            Export Finance Intermediation Loan
EIA             Environmental Impact Assessment
EU              European Union
EUR             Euro- European Union Currency ( )
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IEG             Independent Evaluation Group
ISR             Implementation Status Report
IT              Information Technology
LIBOR           London Interbank Offered Rate
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PDO             Project Development Objectives
PFIs            Participating Financial Intermediaries
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
SAL             Structural Adjustment Loan
SLA             Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SME             Small and Medium Size Enterprises
TL              Turkish Lira
TSKB            Türkiye Sinai Kalk nma Bankas / Turkish Industrial Development Bank

                                At ICR Time                 At Project Approval
              Vice President:   Philippe H. Le Houerou      Shigeo Katsu
            Country Director:   Keiko Sato                  Andrew Vorkink
             Sector Manager:    Lalit Raina                 Gerardo Corrochano
        Project Team Leader:    Carlos Pinerua              Lalit Raina
           ICR Team Leader:     Carlos Pinerua
            ICR Prepared By:    Vinod K. Goel
                                                       TURKEY

                    Third Export Financial Intermediation Loan (EFIL III)

                                                    CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 7
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 13
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 17
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 26
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 28
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 35
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 44
  Annex 9: Financial Performance of Borrower and PFIs ............................................... 45
  Annex 10. Distribution of loans by region, sector, and loan & emplloyment size ....... 48
  Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents..................................................................... 49
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Export Finance
Country:                Turkey                  Project Name:             Intermediation Loan 3
                                                                          (EFIL 3)
Project ID:             P093568                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72950
ICR Date:               12/23/2009              ICR Type:                 Intensive Learning ICR
                                                                          TURKISH
                                                                          INDUSTRIAL
Lending Instrument:     FIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          DEVEL'T BANK
                                                                          (TSKB)
Original Total
                        USD 305.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 305.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 304.9M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/18/2005     Effectiveness:                               12/01/2005
Appraisal:            03/31/2005     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/17/2005     Mid-term Review:           11/12/2007
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010        06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                              40                  40
Micro- and SME finance                                               30                  30
Other domestic and international trade                               30                  30


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                               40                  40
Other financial and private sector development                       20                  20
Small and medium enterprise support                                  40                  40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Keiko Sato                          Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:            Lalit Raina                         Gerardo M. Corrochano
Project Team Leader:       Carlos Pinerua                      Lalit Raina
ICR Team Leader:           Carlos Pinerua
ICR Primary Author:        Vinod K. Goel


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(i) Provision of medium and long-term working capital and investment finance to private
exporters, and contribute to further facilitating export growth in Turkey; and
  (ii) Improvement in the quality, and safety of, and access to, finance through
development of financial intermediation in the Turkish private financial sector by banks
and leasing companies.


                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No Change

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                                 Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                    approval        Target        Completion or
                                                  documents)        Values        Target Years
                  Increase in access to finance for exporters measured by number of enterprises
                  and volume of exports supported export multiplier incremental average
Indicator 1 :
                  aggregate annual exports generated (measured over 3 years for all
                  subborrowers)total credit line disbursed
                                                                               168 exporters
                                                                               supported; US$966
                                                                               million in
Value                                         Export multiplier
                                                                               incremental exports
quantitative or   Not applicable              greater than 1 (in
                                                                               generated, and
Qualitative)                                  ISR)
                                                                               export multiplier
                                                                               3.3 for 2006-2008
                                                                               period
Date achieved     05/17/2005                  01/30/2009                       06/30/2009
Comments          Target achieved. Exports by participating firms grew by 95% from US$2.2
(incl. %          billion in 2005 to US$4.3 billion in 2008. For comparison, export growth for
achievement)      Turkey was 80% in the same period.
                  Increased depth and breadth of financial intermediation as measured by the
Indicator 2 :     number of additional PFIs (banks and leasing companies) that participate in
                  EFIL III different from those in EFIL II
Value                                         2-4 new PFIs
                                                                               7 new PFIs relative
quantitative or   Not applicable              compared to EFIL
                                                                               to EFIL II
Qualitative)                                  II (in ISR)
Date achieved     05/17/2005                  05/10/2006                       11/05/2007
Comments          Target over-achieved. A total of 10 PFIs (4 banks and 6 leasing companies)
(incl. %          participating in EFIL III of which 7 PFIs (4 banks and 3 leasing companies)
achievement)      were new.
                  Improvement of quality of credit portfolio management as measured by (a) the
Indicator 3 :     amount of non-performing sub-loans and leases; and (b) interest and/or principal
                  default /total sub-loans and leases disbursed.
                                                                               At the loan closing
                                                                               (a) US$4.5 million
Value                                                                          in non-performing
                                              Less than 5% (in
quantitative or   Not applicable                                               sub-loans and
                                              ISR)
Qualitative)                                                                   leases (b) 1.5
                                                                               percent of the total
                                                                               disbursed amount
Date achieved     05/17/2005                  05/14/2008                       06/30/2009
Comments          Target achieved. As of June 2009, EFIL III NPL of 1.5% was lower than banking
(incl. %          sector NPL of 4.9%. As of September 2009 NPL increased to 3% (1% for banks


                                                 iii
achievement)    and 4.2% for leasing still lower that the overall NPL of 5.3% for banking and
                11.9% for leasing sector

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
                Provide effective sustained medium/long term finance to exporters on a timely
Indicator 1 :   basis as measured by amount of credit line actually disbursed/projected credit
                line disbursement on a straight line basis.
Value
(quantitative   Not applicable           100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/17/2005                 12/01/2005                         06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The Loan was fully disbursed, one year ahead of projections
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     05/10/2006       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                55.91
  2     11/16/2006       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory               119.65
  3     07/24/2007       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory               201.46
  4     09/23/2007       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory               218.09
  5     05/14/2008       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory               265.63
  6     01/30/2009       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory               301.86


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
           1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background. A financial sector still recovering from the financial
crisis in 2001 and continuing macroeconomic volatility led to difficulties in accessing
investment finance for exporting companies in 2001-02. With uncertainty surrounding
domestic demand, exports were recognized as a driver of growth. Inflation remained high
and domestic currency financing was not realistic for investment needs, so dollar and
euro loans were the norm for investment finance. Firms and financial institutions were
well aware of the risks of taking on foreign currency long term finance, but exporting
firms were at least partially shielded from exchange rate risk and domestic demand
conditions.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Turkish authorities requested the World Bank (in late
2004) for an export credit line to provide medium- to long-term funds for investment and
working capital needs of exporting enterprises. With nominal and real interest rate levels
on Turkish Lira loans remaining prohibitively high, and loan maturities very short,
demand for affordable longer-term foreign currency funds from the real and financial
sectors in Turkey remains strong. The Third Export Financial Intermediation Loan
project (EFIL III, approved in May 2005, effective in December 2005 and closed in June
2009) would largely maintain the design of its successful predecessor EFIL I & EFIL II
projects, which had provided a timely and focused response to the unmet demand from
banks and exporting companies for medium- and long-term funding, both during the pre-
and post-crisis periods. The project would help the financial sector further develop its
investment lending business by demonstrating that term lending can be a viable business
proposition while building the necessarily skills at Participating Financial Intermediaries
(PFIs) to appraise term loans. The project is consistent with the FY04-07 CAS for the
Republic of Turkey. As stated in the CAS, an important objective is the revitalization of
the real sector by providing access to long term credit. The CAS's key priorities for the
medium term include completing the banking and financial sector reforms and filling the
current gap in accessing credit facilities, which is supported by this project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The project specified the following PDOs:
   · Provision of medium and long-term working capital and investment finance to
       private exporters, and contribution to further facilitating export growth in Turkey;
   · Improvement in the quality, safety of and access to finance through development
       of financial intermediation in the Turkish private financial sector by banks and
       leasing companies.
To measure progress the project designed the following performance indicators:
   · Increase in access to finance for exporters measured by the number of enterprises
       and volume of exports supported;



                                            1
   ·   Increased depth and breadth of financial intermediation as measured by the
       number of additional PFIs (banks and leasing companies) that participate in EFIL
       III different from those in EFIL II; and
   ·   Improvement of quality of credit portfolio management by measuring the level of
       debt service and amortization performance of sub-loans under EFIL III of the
       participating banks and leasing firms.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO did not change during the project implementation.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of EFIL III were Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs,
banks and leasing companies) and Turkish private exporting enterprises (exporters). The
Turkish Industrial Development Bank (Türkiye Sinai Kalk nma Bankas , TSKB)
intermediated the credit line through PFIs to exporters.

The exporters would benefit from the provision of medium- and long-term working
capital and investment finance to make productive investments at a time of (i) increasing
demand for longer term credit as in 2005 the economy was showing strong signs of
growth and export performance was on the rise-- thus increasing the demand for longer
term credit; and (ii) inability of the financial sector to support these trends with very
much needed longer term finance at a reasonable cost.

The PFIs would benefit from access to medium- and long-term funding to help them
expand their business in medium- and long-term lending and financial leasing (financial
leasing is hereafter just referred to as leasing) while reducing maturity mismatches that
lead to both interest rate risk and refinancing risk. In addition, the project's requirements
for compliance with banking and leasing regulations and financial covenants would help
ensure that the PFIs remain financially sound. The ultimate objective was to strengthen
and improve the ability of the Turkish financial sector to provide medium- and long-term
financial resources to the enterprise sector.
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had a single component, a credit line for exporters for the provision of
medium- and long-term funds through two distinct channels, or sub-components: (i)
US$165 million and 65 million through commercial banks providing investment and
working capital loans; and (ii) US$35 million and 15 million through leasing companies
to provide lease finance for the acquisition of productive assets (vehicles, machinery
and/or equipment). In addition, the Loan included front end fees (US$1,005,250 and
 402,050) and small unallocated (US$44,750 and 7,950) amounts.

The credit line was provided by the World Bank to TSKB with a Government guarantee,
TSKB passed on funds to PFIs in as subsidiary finance for further on lending to eligible



                                             2
exporters (Figure 1). At the level of PFIs, the project had originally allocated US$246
million equivalent to bank sub-loans and US$54 million equivalent to lease finance.

                              Figure 1: Structure of the EFIL III Credit Line
                                                         Government guarantees TSKB's
                                  IBRD                   repayment to IBRD

                  IBRD extends credit                   Government of
                  line to TSKB
                                                           Turkey
                                      TSKB           TSKB pays a guarantee fee
                                                     to the Government
            TSKB extends subsidiary
            loans to PFIs


                                        PFI 1            PFI 2             PFI 3            .........   PFI 10
            PFIs extend sub-loans and
            leases to exporters


               Exporter 1     Exporter 2        Exporter 3    Exporter 4         Exporter 5 .........    Exporter n



1.6 Revised Components

No Change
1.7 Other significant changes

Reallocations took place on two occasions between the leasing and the banking channel
resulting in the total net reallocation of US$77 million and 45 million from banks to the
leasing sub-component. During early stage of project implementation, three banks and six
leasing companies signed Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA) with TSKB which
required reallocation of US$90 million and 45 million from banks to leasing companies.
(In its ICR input TSKB defines these as amounts at inception (Annex 7). Second
reallocation, on a net basis increased banking allocation by US$13 million and reduced
leasing allocation by the same amount (see Annex 2). No other significant changes.

            2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project's preparation, design, and quality at entry were based on the following:

(i) Consistency with Bank and Government priorities. The project's design to fill the gap
for export enterprises in accessing credit facilities fitted closely the FY04-07 CAS for
revitalization of the real sector by providing access to long term credit. The project
supported the Government's principle objective of real sector recovery and growth.

(ii) Incorporation of lessons learned in the previous EFIL projects. Important lessons
incorporated in the project were (i) project design should be kept as flexible as possible,
with minimum or no statutory requirements; (ii) use sensible financial indicators for the
selection of both the PFIs and exporters in line with established market practices; (iii)


                                                                 3
avoid restrictive procurement requirements unsuitable for private sector borrowers,
proven to be a hindrance to expeditious project implementation; (iv) combine the
Borrower and Implementing Agency functions in one and the same entity for higher
quality and expeditious project implementation; and (v) pre-commit PFIs to borrowing a
certain part of a credit line as an incentive to be quick and effective in finding and
financing eligible sub-projects, thus leading to quicker disbursement of the Bank loan.

(iii) Inclusion of leasing in credit lines. The inclusion of leasing companies as financial
intermediaries was an innovative aspect of the project which was continued from the
successful experience under EFIL II. It helped: (i) reach smaller exporters, which do not
necessarily have access to bank loans, but are accessible by leasing companies; and (ii)
assist development of the leasing sector and thereby deepen the financial sector.

(v) Decentralized decision-making and sound incentive structure. With TSKB carrying
the credit risk of and selecting PFIs, and PFIs carrying the credit risk of and selecting
exporters, the choices of the participants in the project was made by the entities best
capable of identifying good financial intermediaries and exporting firms. Qualitative
criteria set out in the project and monitored during supervision helped ensure that the
choices were made on a sound basis.

(vi) Identification of risks and associated mitigation measures. Risks included (i)
macroeconomic and structural reform risks with a large government debt overhang and
high current account deficit; (ii) risk of delays in three state owned bank privatizations;
and (iii) political risk and implementation risks. Mitigations included the Government's
demonstrated commitment to sustained economic and political stability and reforms; that
the economy had become more resilient to negative shocks; and exporters' track record
of resilience to macroeconomic instability. At the project level, the Bank team had strong
confidence in TSKB's institutional, financial and technical capacity, which had
experience in managing foreign credit lines including EFIL II from the World Bank.

2.2 Implementation

The strong institutional capacity of TSKB was the most important factor in the successful
implementation of the credit line. TSKB implemented streamlined web-based loan
processing procedures. It proactively monitored the performance of PFIs and, in
coordination with the PFIs and the Bank team, ensured that funds were allocated and re-
allocated to well-performing PFIs with demand for funds, so the credit line continued
disbursement in an expeditious manner and with sound procedures in place for
intermediating funds to exporters. Reallocations among PFIs included a slight shift
towards banks reflecting increasing demand for working capital funds.

The project's implementation performance was successful in assessing credit risk with
exporters, with non-performing loans (NPLs) of US$4.5 million (or 1.5 percent) as of
June 30, 2009 (at the time of Loan Closing), having been classified as NPL at some stage
of project implementation. Subtracting those loan amounts classified as "NPLs" but that
were repaid by the firms, NPLs were US$2.1 million (0.7 percent of the EFIL III



                                            4
portfolio). The NPLs in question were for one of the PFIs (2 sub-borrowers). However,
the effect of slower economic growth has started to affect the project. By the third quarter
of 2009, the NPL ratio in the EFIL III portfolio rose to 3.0 percent (US$9.5 million) -- the
NPL ratio of bank PFIs was 1.0 percent and that of leasing PFIs was 4.2 percent.

Foreign ownership in the financial sector further increased during the Project which
improved volume of credits and quality of financial services. Foreign ownership of PFIs
helped them gain access to funds at lower costs and thereby stimulated access to finance
in Turkey. However, it also created a more competitive environment for disbursing
Project funds. TSKB proved its responsiveness to the changing market conditions by
reallocating loan amounts and renegotiating lending rates with some PFIs.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project had a good monitoring and evaluation framework, with the original set of
PAD indicators tracking performance during implementation. This design was reinforced
during the supervision by using additional indicators for tracking developmental impact
and financial prudence.

The original indicators proposed in the PAD were on export performance, the scope of
financial intermediary participation, and on sub-loan/lease performance (see section 1.2).
[PAD did not define baseline benchmarks and targets for these indicators, later targets
were set in the Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)]. The supervision
missions monitored the following additional quantitative indicators (see also qualitative
impacts discussed in section 3.2 and Annex 2): (a) planned employment impact
associated with the project, (b) financial performance of the Borrower and PFIs, and (c)
loan distribution by PFI, loan size, sector and geographical location.

The monitoring indicators were effectively monitored throughout the project. TSKB
further enhanced (developed during EFIL II) its web-based IT system to interface with
PFIs for sub-loan applications, monitoring and disbursements. Financial performance of
TSKB and the PFIs was monitored through independent auditors' reports and separate
letters confirming compliance with the eligibility requirements. TSKB performed
occasional consistency check and cross referencing for data.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement, financial management practices, and environmental review process for the
project were supported by the operational manual with guidance for TSKB and PFIs.
The well-developed operational manual and experienced and proactive TSKB-PIU
helped ensure effective implementation of safeguards and fiduciary compliance.

With regard to fiduciary compliance, all aspects related to financial management were
fully satisfactory. TSKB had worked with the Bank before (as Apex for EFIL II) and was
very familiar with the Bank's fiduciary requirements related to procurement,
disbursements and applicable safeguards and provided training and guidance to PFIs.



                                             5
The financial soundness of PFIs was supported by improved banking and leasing sector
regulations, project requirements aligned with the regulatory environment, and an
incentive structure that ensured that borrowers were effectively pre-screened and
monitored. Banking and leasing sector supervision in Turkey has improved since the
EFIL II period, and EFIL III ensured the soundness of PFIs through (i) a prudential
regulation compliance certificate; and (ii) independently audited IFRS financial reports.
For leasing companies separate eligibility requirements were applied and compliance was
assessed based on quarterly project implementation reports, semi-annual external auditor
compliance certificates, and annual external audit reports of the participating leasing
companies. The supervision of the leasing sector has been strengthened after the transfer
(as of January 1, 2006) of the supervisory responsibility from the Turkish Treasury to the
independent regulator, Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA). In addition,
since TSKB carried the credit risk of PFIs, it had strong incentive to pre-screen and
monitor PFIs to ensure their financially viability.

Environmental safeguards procedures were properly implemented at TSKB and PFIs
designed in the operational manual. All approved sub-loans were classified as having
negligible environmental impact. Some projects were rejected by PFIs during the
approval process based on the environmental standards of loan applicants.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

EFIL III was designed to enable participants to continue the activities independent of the
project on a commercial basis as the Turkish financial sector's access to medium and
long term funding increases, and this has been achieved. The financial sector's access to
medium term finance has improved, but deposits in Turkey remain short term, and
syndicated loans are still mostly of 1-2 years maturity. TSKB has built lending
relationships and experience with PFIs. It has strengthened its long term financing
capacity from EFIL and other IFI loans. PFIs have expanded their client base and honed
skills in making medium and long-term credit. They have used the loan to demonstrate
that medium term lending can be a profitable business proposition. Exporters have built
credit history with PFIs and improved their financial records and documentation required
for bank loans, thus improving their ability to gain access to credit.

However, additional operations could help sustain the achievements of EFIL III and
expand the scale and scope of the development impact. In particular the following needs
remain relevant: (i) access to medium- and long-term funds to exporters; (ii) further
development of medium term lending skills; (iii) expansion of the scope of financial
institutions included; (iv) scaling up the project, which reaches only a small part of the
exporting sector; (v) better reach smaller firms, which still suffer from poor access to
credit; and (vi) better reach borrowers outside major urban areas, which are experiencing
relatively worse access to credit as evidenced in the Turkey ICA (2007). This has become
even more critical in light of the recent global financial crisis which has resulted in lower
economic growth, shrinking exports and reduced availability of credit and lease finance,
especially to smaller exporters and SMEs.




                                             6
EFIL III has already been followed up with a repeater operation, EFIL IV, and a credit
line for SMEs, the SME Access to Finance Project (and another SME credit line is under
preparation). EFIL IV includes several new banks and leasing companies as PFIs
(relative to those included in EFIL I, II and III projects) and thereby expands the scope of
the financial intermediaries benefiting from the project; the EFIL program has so far
covered 24 PFIs including 10 leasing companies. The SME Access to Finance credit line
(which is now getting a second Additional Financing from the Bank) supports smaller
firms and has an additional regional objective to serve an area in priority regions for
development in Turkey, where lending to SMEs is still weak. Exports/GDP in Turkey
remains low compared to some other emerging markets, and with the proximity to EU
and the Customs Union in place there is still ample scope for expansion of export
industries if their investments can be funded. For the leasing companies the funding
mismatch remains an even greater concern than in the banking sector. Thus, additional
credit lines would help to build on the success of the EFIL and SME projects.

                             3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective, design and implementation of the project remain highly relevant with
regard to Turkey's and the World Bank's development objectives. As stated in the FY04-
07 CAS, an important objective is the revitalization of the real sector by providing access
to long term credit. The CAS's key priorities for the medium term include completing the
banking and financial sector reforms and filling the current gap in accessing credit
facilities, which was supported by the project. The CPS FY08-11 aims to improve the
business climate and identifies export growth and stability of financial markets as key
outcomes. It also identifies increase in export capacity of enterprises financed through
credit lines as a Bank Group benchmark. The Turkish Government in its 9th Development
Plan (2007-2013) includes competitiveness in export markets as one of the main
objectives and includes improvement to the financial system as a key goal to achieve this.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDOs were fully achieved and well ahead of time. One PDO indicator was over-
achieved, and the other two indicators also showed better results than what should be
expected in Turkey, especially given the recent global financial crisis.

Providing medium- and long-term working capital and investment finance to private
exporters. The credit line provided US$312.9 million equivalent (including US$12.9
million due to US$/EUR exchange rate appreciation- figures in the ICR Data Sheet may
be different as they do not include exchange rate changes) of medium term financing to
168 exporters through 10 PFIs. US$116.5 million was provided through 4 banks, and
US$196.4 million was provided through 6 leasing firms. The project thus added
US$312.9 million worth of financial intermediation. This is equal to around 0.3 percent
of total domestic credit to the firm sector in Turkey, but it is a much larger part of
investment finance in Turkey, which remains underdeveloped. The average size of sub-
loans was US$1.5 million (US$1.2 million for the leasing sector and US$2.6 million for


                                             7
the banks) with 50.7% of sub-loans (by number, and 21.5 percent by amount) of less than
US$1 million. The maturities of sub-loans and leases were on average 43 months (banks
32 months and leasing companies 49 months) with more than half the loans having
maturities of four years or more. Early in the project most loans had a maturity of 3-4
years, but towards the end of 2008 the share of loans with one-year maturity had
increased due to the changing financial conditions and increasing demand for working
capital. Interest rates for exporters averaged 7.52 percent for US$ denominated loans and
7.34 percent for those in EUR. Most exporters paid less than 10 percent, and a very small
number paid above 12 percent. The impact was well dispersed across 168 firms in several
industries and geographic areas (see Annex 10) with some concentration (by amount) in
the Marmara region (59.6%) and textile sector (29.0%).

                                   Figure 2: Loan Volumes and Number of Loans by Maturity
                            1 20                            111                         1 20


                            100                                                         100
                 vyv                                                                           
                   Ã                                                                           h
                                                                                               
                    Ç        80
                                                   69
                                                                                        80
                                                                                               
                    T
                    V                                                 62                       ÃG
                                                                                                s
                    Ã        60                                                         60      Ã
                     r                     46                                                    r
                                                                                                 i
                     y
                                                                                                 
                      ÃW
                             40                                                         40
                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                 À
                       h
                       
                        G
                       ÃÀ    20    12
                                                                           3
                                                                                 10     20

                              0                                                         0
                                    1       2       3        4        5    6      7

                                                  Maturity (yea rs)


               Source: TSKB

The project reinforced the general trend of increased credit in Turkey. In US$ terms,
Bank loans grew by 111 percent and leasing receivables grew by 29 percent between
2005 and 2008 (during 2005-2007, leasing receivables grew by 95 percent). However, the
global economic crisis resulted in slower economic growth and depressed demand (and
constrained supply) for credit, but the contraction in alternative funding sources by
financial institutions increased relevance of the project. After contracting by 4.2 percent
between October 2008 and April 2009, banks' domestic lending expanded since April
2009 by 4.6 percent. But the new leasing volumes have dropped dramatically in part as a
result of slower demand and increased credit risk in the SME sector and in part as a result
of the investment finance nature of leasing. Total new leasing volume in 2009 is expected
to reach about US$2.2 billion after amounting to US$5.3 billion and US$8.3 billion in
2008 and 2007, respectively. Total credit to private sector by 4 PFI banks increased by 58
percent in 2007 from the 2006 level, but, as a result of the global crisis, declined by 12
percent in 2008 from the 2007 level (still higher by 40 percent over the 2006 level).
Further, total export loans (mostly export receivables) by 4 PFI banks increased by 40
percent in 2007 from the 2006 level, but declined by 26 percent in 2008 from the 2007
level (and 3.5 percent from the 2006 level). Their performance in terms of the share of
export loans in their total loan portfolio remains mixed.

Further facilitating export growth in Turkey. The export multiplier (measuring
incremental exports divided by loan amount) was 3.3 for the project meaning that for


                                                                 8
every dollar of loan taken by an exporter, it increased exports by 3.3 dollars. Overall
exports by sub-borrowers grew by 95 percent (or by US$2.1 billion) between 2005 and
2008 and thereby reinforcing the general trend of increasing exports (Figure 3). Turkish
exports in general expanded by a cumulative growth of 80 percent in US$ terms between
2005 and 2008. However, Turkey's exports shrank by 29.2 percent (GDP by 10.5
percent) in the first half of 2009 as a result of slowing global demand exacerbated by
Turkey's export composition, and EFIL III supported exporters are expected to show
similar weak export performance.

                                                          Figure 3. Exports Grow th in Beneficiary Firm s


                                4,000
                                                                                                    3,352
                                3,500
       Exports in US$ million




                                3,000
                                                                                                2,386
                                2,500                                                                             Exports at application
                                2,000                         1,659                                               Exports at end of 2008
                                1,500                     1,248                                                   *
                                                                                    1,005                   966   Increas e in e xports **
                                1,000         688                             678
                                        460                         411
                                                    228                                 327
                                 500
                                  -
                                               2005               2006                2007              TOTAL
                                                                          Ye ar




     * For 10 companies 2008 exports are not available thus 2007 exports are used in export growth calculation.
     ** After elimination of duplicating companies' exports.
     Source: TSKB data

Improving quality and safety of and access to finance through development of financial
intermediation in the Turkish private financial sector by banks and leasing companies.
Sub-loans and leases performed reasonably well with 1.5 percent being non-performing
relative to a 4.9 percent NPL ratio in the banking sector as of June 2009 (at the time of
Loan Closing)1. Two of the participating 168 exporters were classified as non-performing
borrowers during the life of the project, and one of them later recovered to performing
status. However, the effect of the slower growth (as a result of the recent global financial
crisis) has started to affect the project. By the third quarter of 2009, the overall NPL ratio
in the EFIL III portfolio rose to 3.0 percent (US$9.5 million). NPL ratio of bank PFIs was
1.0 percent, while the overall sector average was 5.3 percent. NPL ratio of the leasing
companies was 4.2 percent, well below the sector average of 11.9 percent. As of June
2009, there were no loans classified as NPL in the leasing companies' EFIL III portfolios.
As of September 2009, four leasing companies reported that they had sub-leases that
were not reported as NPL in June 2009 because the repayments were not yet past due
period in order to be classified as non-performing. (Breakdown of NPL ratios by PFIs is
given in Annex 9.) The Borrower (TSKB) and PFIs remained financially healthy during
the operation. One leasing company is currently experiencing difficulties in its lease

1
  In the current challenging environment NPL ratios in the financial sector have grown recently, but the
participating exporters have performed well relative to the sector. The banking sector's NPLs rose to 4.9
percent as of June 2009 from 3.7 percent at end 2008. The leasing sector's NPLs rose to 10.5 percent as of
June 2009 from 6.6 percent at end 2008. As of September 2009, three participating banks and two
participating leasing companies exhibited NPL ratios higher than with the sectoral trends.


                                                                                  9
portfolio and taking steps to address the problem. The Loan's concentration in the
manufacturing sector and in the Marmara region is explained by the overall exporters'
concentration in this sector and region2. Within the manufacturing sector, a large share
went to the textile sector (29 percent), which accounted for 23 percent of Turkey's
manufacturing exports in 20083. The concentration in this traditional Turkish export
sector may reflect that these firms have better track records to prove their
creditworthiness than emerging industries with better growth potential. It suggests that
there is still room for developing good credit appraisal practices for term financing.

Employment at participating exporters was planned to grow by 3,725 jobs as a result of
the sub-projects financed by EFIL III. 4 Job creation was not an objective for the project
when designed, but it is an important objective for the World Bank and for Turkey, and it
is therefore an important added benefit of the project. At the time of sub-loan/lease
application the exporters indicated what the planned employment impact of the project
association with the loan would be. According to the firms' plans, some 3,725 jobs would
be added to the 45,155 already employed. However, actual numbers show a reduction of
655 jobs (or 1.5 percent) as of end 2008- not surprising given the adverse impact of the
global crisis on the exports and economic growth in general-- this is still a good
performance given the unemployment rate of 13.4 percent (TurkStat) in October 2009.

Furthermore, as Annex 2 further develops, the project had significant impact towards
achieving the PDO through indirect channels, namely (i) a demonstration and spillover
effect, with TSKB and the PFIs demonstrating that term lending can be a viable business
proposition; (ii) capacity building for TSKB (for example a web-based IT system to
process loan applications by PFIs), PFIs (improving their skills in making medium and
long term credit through better credit appraisal and monitoring requirements) and
exporters (improving formal documentation for gaining access to credit), (iii) improved
environmental practices of exporters and the capacity of PFIs to assess environmental
risks of borrowing companies.

3.3 Efficiency

The project was efficient in terms of generating exports. For every dollar of loan
extended, the exporters increased exporters by 3.3 dollar; (see section 3.2 and Annex 2).

It is likely that the project had a causal effect on the outcomes although it cannot be
firmly proved. The alternative that the project merely crowded out private sector
financing does not seem plausible. First, there is very little financing of firms by leasing

2
  EFIL III did not have provision for lending to the tourism sector which is one of the largest foreign
exchange earning sectors of the Turkish economy. Therefore, the facility naturally was disbursed to the
manufacturing industry. In 2008, 74 percent of Turkey's exports were realized by companies which have
their tax registration in the Marmara region.
3
  Including wearing apparel.
4
  The employment impact is specific to the sub-project for which the loan proceeds are applied, but it
reflects the planned impact at the exporter level rather than the actual impact. During the loan application
process borrowers were asked how many employees they planned to add in connection with the investment
for which they were borrowing, and that is the basis for the data.


                                                    10
firms and banks that have the long maturities offered in EFIL III, suggesting that there is
not a significant private market to crowd out. Second, for instance export growth and
NPLs were benchmarked against and outperformed the rest of the economy. The only
way to firmly establish causality would be to benchmark against a control group created
by randomly rejecting loan applications from firms that had already been approved by the
PFI and TSKB ­ an experiment which is impossible in practice.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: HS ­ Highly Satisfactory
The development objectives of the project were and continue to remain highly relevant
for Turkey's and the World Bank's development agenda. The project fully achieved its
indicators (some over-achieved), it did so efficiently and faster than planned, and it had
additional positive effects such as improved long-term resources (from rollover of project
funds), environmental practices, PFIs' capacity building, and a demonstration effect to
develop medium and long term financing.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project's impact on poverty is indirect as it helps firms grow and create employment.
At the macroeconomic level, the project supported expanding export activity, which
contributes to economic growth, creating (and preserving) employment and social
development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project helped strengthen leasing and bank project finance credit appraisal
procedures among the PFIs. Some PFIs indicated that the credit appraisal and
documentation, and monitoring requirements under the project helped them upgrade their
lending and monitoring practices. Four banks and three leasing company were new
entrants in EFIL III (relative to EFIL II) and some of them used the project requirements
as a starting point for developing their credit appraisal and monitoring processes.

TSKB further enhanced (built during EFIL II) its web-based IT system to process sub-
loan applications from PFIs, which is being used in other projects. It allowed for an
expeditious interaction with PFIs for the approval of sub-loans and leases, and reducing
scope for errors. During ICR team interviews, all PFIs expressed high praise for TSKB
and found their interaction with TSKB to be highly professional and efficient. The project
improved the environmental practices of exporters and the capacity of TSKB and PFIs to
assess environmental risks of borrowing companies. The project's environmental
requirements dictated that either an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) had to be
submitted or an "EIA not required" certificate had to be provided. In order to implement
the requirement, the PFIs built capacity to assess environmental risks and the
effectiveness of mitigation at borrowing firms.

TSKB and PFIs have used the project to demonstrate successfully that medium- and long
term lending can be a viable business proposition. This has been a crucial higher-level


                                            11
objective for the project, aiming to ultimately encourage medium- and long-term credit
by creating the market and demonstrating its business rationale. This will further
strengthen exporters' access to investment finance in the future.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Several PFIs have introduced project supported project appraisal, environment and
monitoring procedures in their lending operations; increased awareness of environment
safeguards would help improve quality of lending. TSKB has built a large amount of long
term funds for on lending (from rollover of Bank funds which are of longer maturity- 16
years, than its on lending to PFIs- 4-6 years). The EFIL program (EFIL I, II, III and IV)
had a very successful and broader impact on the financial intermediation as well as
overall financial sector in Turkey covering 24 PFIs including 10 leasing firms.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

During the ICR preparation, an independent survey of participating exporters and
comparator firms was conducted to assess the impact of the EFIL III project. Overall, the
project had a very positive impact on the beneficiary firms with EFIL III participants
outperforming non-participants along a number of important dimensions (Figure 4).
Participating firms grew more quickly than non-participating firms in terms of exports
(10.4 percent compared to zero percent), sales (11.7 percent compared to 6.2 percent) and
employment (8.9 percent compared 2.5 percent). They were also more likely to introduce
new products (58 percent compared to 29 percent), improve environmental management
practices (79 percent compared to 47 percent) and enter new export markets (69 percent
compared to 48 percent) in comparison to non-participating firms. Participating firms
were also asked about their perceptions about the EFIL III project. Most of the firms were
satisfied with the support they received. Only 6 percent of participants said that they were
not satisfied with the project and 89 percent said that they would participate again. In
addition, about 65 percent of participants said that they would have been unable to fully
finance their investments or working capital needs in the absence of EFIL III project.
Annex 5 provides more details on the survey results.

          Figure 4: Performance differences between EFIL and Non-EFIL firms
            Export, Sales & Employment Growth (%)                                 New Product, Environment Management & New
                                                                                          Export Markets (% of firms)
   15.0
                                             11.7
                    10.4                                                    100                                   79
                                                                8.9                                                                        69
   10.0                                                                      80
                                       6.2                                               58
                                                                             60                          47                           48
    5.0                                                   2.5                40     29
            0.0                                                              20
    0.0                                                                      0
          Export Grow th             Sales Grow th    Employment Grow th          New Product        Improved Env.             New Export Markets
                                                                                                        Mngmt.
                  Non-EF IL F irms     EF IL F irms
                                                                                                Non-EF IL Firms        EF IL F irms


 Source: Beneficiary Survey Data. Note: Growth rates are for mean

                           4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME



                                                                       12
Rating: Moderate
Risks to the project outcomes encompass general country risks, risks to financial
intermediation, export performance, and project specific risks. General risks include
political risk, natural disasters (the Istanbul region, which is the hearth of commercial
activity in Turkey, is earthquake prone), the war in neighboring Iraq, international
financial market turbulence, and macroeconomic mismanagement all of which have
happened in the past. Specific export sectors could be affected by changes in the global
environment. The project aims to improve the domestic financial sector's resilience to
shocks, but otherwise these factors are beyond the control of the project.

Project specific risks include the future performance of TSKB, the PFIs, and the sub-
borrowers. TSKB's financial performance has been monitored during supervision
missions and the bank remains sound. Its liabilities have long maturities making the bank
fairly resilient to financial turbulence (Annex 9 provides additional information on the
financial performance of TSKB and the PFIs). PFIs, likewise, were monitored during
supervision for their financial health and with few exceptions found to be performing
well (see section 3.2). However, in light of the recent global economic crisis, in PFIs,
lending volumes have declined and NPL ratios have increased (not necessarily in
absolute terms in all cases, but in relative terms as lending/leasing volumes have
declined), but their liquidity situation and overall performance remains sound. It should
be noted that non-performance on the loan obligations by some exporters is likely to
happen as it has happened in the past. But the aggregate export performance of the sub-
borrowers will not be materially impacted by a small number of non-performing firms
because the project is disbursed across 168 different firms, and as a group they are
unlikely to pose a risk for the projects outcomes.

               5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: S - Satisfactory
The project's identification and design were compatible with the CAS, the project built
on the lessons learned during EFIL I and EFIL II, and it was consistent with the
Government's development strategy for the sector as noted in section 2.1. The project
had the benefit of learning from predecessor operations, the EFIL I and EFIL II, and was
able to refine its design to ensure a successful implementation. A particular strength was
TSKB's prior experience in implementing EFIL II, which helped ensure that the project
was implemented effectively including following Bank procedures. However, it would
have been useful if PAD had established baseline benchmarks and targets for
performance indicators. Although ISR did set such targets, in some cases it was done
after-the-fact- such as exports multiplier, and goals for new PFI entrants (this was mostly
known at the time of Board approval). Also, it would have been useful to specify some
more quantitative indicators (such as credit to private sector, share of loans to exporters,
etc.) in order to better evaluate the secondary PDO related to the financial sector
development.




                                            13
The project design was well aligned with the IEG (2006) recommendations for lines of
credit: (i) the macroeconomic environment was stabilizing with inflation reaching single
digit levels in 2004, although clear vulnerabilities remained; (ii) banking sector reforms
(supported by World Bank SALs) were substantially progressing in improving the
regulation of the banking sector; (iii) clear eligibility criteria for PFIs were identified in
the PAD; and (iv) only private intermediaries were used (the Government was guarantor
for TSKB's financial obligation to the World Bank, but not directly involved in
implementation). Notably, the Loan was disbursed quickly although the Loan size was
relatively large. In the midst of the global crisis, the Turkish financial sector has shown
resilience in terms of solvency and liquidity. Despite increasing NPLs banks remain well
capitalized, and strong profitability has been supported by declining interest rates and
strong trading income. All leasing companies included in the project are supported by
parent banks or conglomerates, and all PFIs the ICR team met did not express any
management, liquidity or solvency problems.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: S ­ Satisfactory
Effective supervision by the Bank team helped ensure successful project implementation
by responding to Borrower needs and by being proactive in addressing implementation
problems. TSKB expressed praise for effective collaboration with the Bank.
Development results were effectively monitored and supervision expanded the scope of
monitoring to include employment, and geographical size, and sectoral dispersion of the
sub-loans. Further, the bank supervision has resulted in the institutionalization of best
practices for TSKB and PFIs. TSKB's lending practices improved in sophistication and
efficiency, including the IT system to expedite sub-loan processing, while PFIs benefited
from building institutional capacity in assessing credit risk for medium term financing
and managing environmental risks.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: S ­ Satisfactory
Based on the above, the overall Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry and quality
of supervision is Satisfactory toward achieving the development outcomes.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: S ­Satisfactory
The Government's performance as a Guarantor was Satisfactory. The Government took
the credit risk of TSKB by providing a guarantee and has been very supportive of the
TSKB's credit line operations financed by the World Bank (as evidenced by EFIL II, III,
IV and SME Projects). Prudent macroeconomic policies and strengthening of the
supervisory framework also contributed to the success of the project. The regulatory
framework was substantially strengthened in part as supported by a new banking law and
in part with the transfer of supervisory responsibility of the leasing industry from the
Turkish Treasury to the BRSA. Although Government's direct role in a credit line project
with the private sector is relatively small, it has been a critical and very positive role.



                                             14
(b) Borrower and Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: HS ­ Highly satisfactory
The performance of the Borrower and implementing agency, TSKB, was Highly
Satisfactory. TSKB pro-actively supported PFIs' implementation, effectively performed
its responsibilities, enhanced its internet based IT system to help interaction with PFIs
and project monitoring, and reacted swiftly to changing market conditions by reallocating
funds between PFIs and renegotiating costs to some PFIs. PFIs indicated praise for TSKB
during the ICR mission except for the some complaints (not unexpected) about pricing. In
addition, monitoring data was promptly produced and utilized in decision-making.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: HS ­ Highly Satisfactory
Based on the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated Highly Satisfactory. The
Government performance as a Guarantor is rated Satisfactory.

                                 6. LESSONS LEARNED

In addition to lessons learned from EFIL I and EFIL II as described in Section 2.1, EFIL
III project offers the following lessons:

Simplicity and alignment with existing business practices at PFIs speed up the project
implementation. Eligibility constraints and reporting requirements that go beyond what
PFIs normally require increases transaction cost of the project, slows implementation,
and may have a tendency to shift funds to firms with relatively better access to finance.
The application process for sub-loans and leases reportedly required increased efforts
compared to normal lending practices but it did contribute to capacity building. It may be
better to improve PFIs' existing credit appraisal practices, simplify requirements for
smaller sub-loans/borrowers, and require audited sub-borrower data on an annual basis
(not quarterly). Offering longer maturities to PFIs (by Apex body, TSKB) could help
further deepen financial intermediation by enabling more rollover of funds at PFI level.

Environmental, procurement and other project requirements may tend to lead to funds
being allocated to larger businesses rather than reaching those that need them most. The
costs incurred by these requirements sometimes may make it relatively more attractive
for PFIs to lend loan funds to larger customers with greater loan sizes. Some bank PFIs
indicated that project requirements made it less attractive to cater to smaller borrowers
(this was not the objective of the project and having leasing companies was done to
expand the reach to smaller borrowers). For leasing PFIs, sub-loan sizes under the project
were less than those for the bank PFIs indicating more targeting of smaller firms. It
should be noted however, that while PFIs (and sub-borrowers) may sometimes find these
requirements to be burdensome, they do contribute to capacity building in PFIs and sub-
borrowers. Carefully designing information requirements to minimize compliance costs
while serving the capacity building objectives will help ensure successful
implementation.

Responsiveness to changing market conditions reduces implementation delays. During
the project, loan funds for one bank in the project became unworkable and would not


                                           15
have continued to disburse. Prompt reallocation by TSKB to other PFIs ensured that the
overall project was not delayed as a result.

            7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
                              AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The borrower, TSKB's, ICR is included in Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

The following is a summary of the main points put forward by participating PFIs in
during interviews in the ICR mission.

·   The project has been successful in achieving its objectives by helping PFIs (i) grow
    their business, extend maturities of liabilities, increase awareness and expertise on
    appraisal, monitoring and environmental aspects.
·   The credit line cost to some PFIs was an issue with changed market conditions. Some
    PFIs indicated that the price of credit line became higher relative to other funding
    sources and as price competition and liquidity in the financial sector had become
    stronger, but longer maturity of the credit line was an advantage.
·   It would help to simplify credit appraisal and application process. Some PFIs
    indicated that time spent on applications under this project was higher than the time
    for loans funded by their own sources, and requirements could be more streamlined.
·   Obtaining environmental documentation from small firms was difficult. Smaller firms
    generally found it difficult or not worthwhile obtaining environmental documentation
    required under the project, but they did recognize value-added by this process.
·   It would be desirable for PFIs to have longer maturity funding. Some PFIs
    (especially, leasing companies) mentioned that having longer maturity funds from
    TSKB would be helpful for them to rollover more and increase longer term lending to
    enterprises at the PFI level. (Leasing companies usually lend with tenure of 4 years
    and payments are front loaded. The maturity offered by TSKB caters to their needs.)
·   Including tourism industry as an export industry would help. Firms in the tourism
    industry were not eligible as exporters although tourism services to non-residents are
    exports (by economic statistics definitions). There is strong demand for investment
    lending in the tourism industry, and some PFIs indicated that inclusion of tourism
    would have helped in their lending. Inclusion of tourism was considered during
    project implementation, but not pursued as the Loan was being disbursed fast.

Some of the above suggestions (such as simpler application procedures for smaller loans,
and inclusion of tourism) have been incorporated in the design of EFIL IV project.



                                           16
                            ANNEX 1. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING

  (a) Project Cost by Component

  Project               Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate            Percentage of
  Component                                                                                 Appraisal
                       US$                                  US$                            US$
CCredit line    200,000,000         80,000,000       200,000,000         80,000,000         100     100
  Front End Fee   1,005,250            402,050         1,005,250            402,050         100     100
  Unallocated        44,750              7,950                 0                  0           0        0
  Total         201,050,000         80,410,000       201,005,250         80,402,050       99.98    99.99
  Baseline Cost
 Physical                                       -                                    -
 Contingencies
  Price                                         -                                    -
  Contingencies
  Total Project 201,050,000         80,410,000       201,005,250         80,402,050       99.98    99.99
  Cost
  (b) Financing

                                             Type of            Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing          Estimate    Estimate     Appraisal
   Borrower                                                            0.00        0.00          0.00
   International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                            201,050,000 201,005,250                99.98
  and Development US$
   International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                80,410,000 80,402,050              99.99
  and Development Euro


  (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                  Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                                   Percentage of
            Components                                            Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                                       Appraisal
                                                                   millions) /1

  Total Baseline Cost                               300.00                  312.90                   104
  Physical Contingencies
                                                         0.00                 0.00                  0.00
  Price Contingencies
                                                      0.00                    0.00                  0.00
  Total Project Costs                               300.00                  312.90                   104
  Credit Line                                       300.00                  312.90                   104
  Unallocated                                         .069                    0.00
  Project Preparation Fund                            0.00                    0.00                  0.00
  Front-end fee IBRD                                 3.031                   3.031                   100
  Total Financing Required                          303.10                  315.93                   104



                                                    17
(b) Financing

                                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                  Type of          Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                                Cofinancing          (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                                    million)    million)
 Borrower                                                                  0.00        0.00        0.00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                          303.10            315.93                   104
and Development
1/ Actual amount is higher due to exchange rate changes of US$ vs. EUR at the project closing vs. appraisal stage.




                                                          18
                             ANNEX 2. OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT

This Annex summarizes the outputs that have been realized under the project. It
assesses quantitative output targets against those set out in the PAD, in addition to the
qualitative impact as assessed during supervision and by the ICR team.

A. The project had a single component and the quantitative outputs are described
below and in Table 2 according to the PDO they supported:

(i) Provide medium- and long-term working capital and investment finance to
private exporters. Credit line utilization, as measured by the amount of sub-loans
disbursed to exporters, was highly successful with the credit line to private exporters in
Turkey fully disbursed (US$312.9 million) by June 2009, one year ahead of original
closing date. Financial intermediary participation, as measured by the number of PFIs
participating in the project and the number of PFIs different from those participating in
EFIL II, was high with 10 PFIs (4 banks and 6 leasing companies), of which 4 banks and
3 leasing companies were new entrants relative to EFIL II. Thus, the project was
successful in three dimensions: (a) attracting broad participation from financial
institutions different from those in EFIL II; (b) including leasing companies in addition to
banks; (iii) including second-tier financial institutions, i.e. those that have otherwise more
difficult access to funding. Table 1 provides final loan allocations to PFIs.

                         Table 1. EFIL III Final Loan Allocations
                                 USD Tranche        EUR Tranche          Total Allocation
               PFIs              (USD million )     (EUR million )       (USD million) 1/
     Banks                           88.0               20.0                  116.2
     Alternatif Bank                 25.0               10.0                   39.1
     Denizbank                       10.0                 -                    10.0
     Finansbank                      40.0               10.0                   54.1
     Tekstilbank                     13.0                 -                    13.0
     Leasing Companies              112.0               60.0                  196.7
     Alternatif Leasing              10.0                 -                    10.0
     FFK Leasing                     40.0               10.0                   54.1
     Finans Leasing                   4.0               15.0                   25.2
     Garanti Leasing                 13.0                5.0                   20.1
       Leasing                       25.0               10.0                   39.1
     Yap Kredi Leasing               20.0               20.0                   48.2
     Total Loan                     200.0               80.0                  312.9
     Banks                           44%                25%                    37%
     Leasing Companies               56%                75%                    63%
   1/ Exchange rate UD$/Euro 1.4116, as of June 30, 2009. These amounts exclude front end fees.

(ii) Contribute to further facilitating export growth in Turkey. Export growth impact,
as measured by the export multiplier (incremental export/loans disbursed) for




                                                  19
participating firms over a three year period, 2006 to 2008, was 3.35. In other words, for
every dollar borrowed under EFIL III, exports by participating firms grew by 3.3 dollars.
Although establishing causality is difficult, exports per se for the participating firms grew
by 95 percent from US$2.2 billion in 2005 to US$4.3 billion in 2008, when, for
comparison, export growth for the country as a whole was 80 percent over the same
period. It should be noted however, that, in 2009 Turkey's exports shrank by 29.2 percent
(GDP shrank by 10.5 percent) during first half of 2009 as a result of the slowing global
demand exacerbated by Turkey's export composition, and participating enterprises are
expected to show similar weak export performance in 2009. Turkey's exports ­
concentrated in hard-hit sectors such as automotive vehicles, consumer durables, and
capital goods and machinery ­ made it vulnerable to a dip in export demand.

(iii) Improve quality and safety of and access to finance through development of
financial intermediation in the Turkish private financial sector by banks and leasing
companies. Sub-loan payment performance, as measured by (i) the amount of non-
performing sub-loans and leases and interest and (/or) (ii) principal defaults/total amount
of sub-loans and leases disbursed has been very satisfactory. Two borrowers were
classified as non-performers6 with a total of US$4.6 million worth of outstanding balance
equaling 1.5 percent of the total disbursed amount. One sub-loan subsequently regained
status as performing reducing the non-performing rate to 0.7 percent. However, the effect
of the slowing growth (as a result of the recent global financial crisis) has started to affect
the project. By the third quarter of 2009, the overall NPL ratio in the EFIL III portfolio
rose to 3.0 percent (US$9.5 million). The NPL ratio of bank PFIs was 1.0 percent, while
the overall sector average was 5.3 percent. The NPL ratio of the leasing companies was
4.2 percent, well below the sector average of 11.9 percent. As of June 2009, there were
no loans classified as NPL in the leasing companies' EFIL III portfolios. As of
September 2009, four leasing companies reported that they had sub-leases that were not
reported as NPL in June 2009 because the repayments were not yet past due period in
order to be classified as non-performing. Breakdown of NPL ratios by PFIs is given in
Annex 9.

The financial performance of TSKB and PFIs was closely monitored during supervision
through reviews of audited financial statement. All PFIs remained sound and well
performing throughout the implementation period (summary financial indicators are
provided in Annex 9). However, one leasing company is currently experiencing
difficulties in its lease portfolio and taking steps to address the problem.



5
   The most recent export data available are for December 2008, and export performance is therefore
measured by 2008 exports. The base year for measuring increased exports is the year before funds were
disbursed to the exporter unless the first disbursement was done in the last quarter of the year. It is
therefore meaningful to measure performance only for firms that received EFIL III funds in the third
quarter of 2008 or earlier. Out of the 168 exporters that have received funding under the EFIL III, it is
meaningful to measure export performance for 147 companies- US$291.5 million was disbursed to those
firms, and they increased exports by $966.3 million; 17 companies have a base year of 2008, and 4
companies do not have export data due to their NPL situation.
6
  NPLs are classified according to BRSA regulations in the sub-standard, doubtful and loss categories.


                                                   20
In the challenging operating environment NPL ratios in the Turkish financial sector have
increased, but the EFIL III supported exporters have performed well relative to the NPLs
for the overall financial sector. The banking sector's NPL ratio rose to 4.9 percent as of
June 2009 from 3.7 percent at end 2008. The leasing sector's NPL ratio rose to 10.5
percent as of June 2009 from 6.6 percent at end 2008. As of the end of September 2009,
the NPL ratios were 5.3 percent for the banking sector and 11.9 percent for the leasing
sector. As of September 2009, three participating banks and two leasing companies have
NPLs higher than with the sectoral trends.

The Loan was broadly distributed across 168 firms with the largest sub-borrower loan
amounting to US$10 million or 3.2 percent of the total project amount (the smallest loan
was US$50,293). The sub-loans were geographically concentrated in the Marmara region
(59.6 percent), which includes Istanbul (see Annex 10). The regions hosts a large share
of Turkey's exporting industries and the main offices of many firms operating throughout
Turkey (in 2008, 74 percent of Turkey's exports were realized by companies which have
their tax registration in the Marmara region). In addition, the financial sector is strongly
concentrated in Istanbul, and therefore it is natural to see loan concentration in that area.
Sub-loans were somewhat concentrated in the textile sector (29.0 percent-- textile sector
accounted for 23 percent of Turkey's manufacturing exports) and in the basic metals and
fabricated metals sectors (13.8 percent). EFIL III did not have provision for lending to the
tourism sector which is one of the largest foreign exchange earning sectors of the Turkish
economy. Therefore, the facility naturally was disbursed to the manufacturing industry.
Fifty percent of the sub-loan volume (21.5 percent by amount) was for sub-loans of less
than US$1.0 million. Sixty percent of sub-loans (48 percent by amount) were made to
small and medium size enterprises (defined as employees less than 250). These figures
reflect project's effort to reach smaller exporters.

(iv) Contribute to employment (not a project objective but added during supervision
to measure an additional benefit of the project). Employment has become an
important development objective in Turkey; therefore supervision missions collected data
on the planned employment impact of the sub-projects, although this is not an objective
of the project. At the time of application, exporters reported the number of employment
they planned to add as a result of financing received from the project. According to the
firms' plans, some 3,725 jobs would be added to the 45,155 already employed by them.
However, actual numbers show a reduction of 655 jobs (or 1.5 percent) as of end 2008-
not surprising given the adverse impact of the global crisis on the exports and economic
growth in general-- this is still a good performance given the unemployment rate of 13.4
percent (TurkStat) in October 2009.

B. In addition, EFIL III was designed to enable participants to continue activities
independent of the project on a commercial basis, thus adding a qualitative impact
dimension, assessed during supervision and by the ICR team:

(i) Demonstration and spillover effect. TSKB and PFIs have used the Loan to
demonstrate that medium- and long-term lending can be a viable business proposition.
This has been a crucial higher objective for the project, aiming to ultimately encourage



                                             21
medium and long-term credit by creating the market and demonstrating its business
rationale. The EFIL program (EFIL I, II, III and IV) had a very successful and broader
impact on the financial intermediation as well as overall financial sector in Turkey
covering 24 PFIs including 10 leasing firms.

Just like the most countries in the world, the recent global financial crisis has also
affected Turkey as well. In Turkey, the slowing economic growth is depressing demand
for finance, but the contraction in alternative funding sources by financial institutions is
increasing the relevance of EFIL projects. In 2009, GDP is forecasted to shrink 6.5
percent and is expected to return to positive growth in 2010. At the same time, supply of
credit has been constrained by a contraction in international credit markets. After
contracting by 4.2 percent between October 2008 and April 2009, banks' domestic
lending expanded since April 2009 by 4.6 percent. But the Turkish financial sector is
proving resilient in terms of solvency and liquidity. Despite increasing NPLs banks
remain well capitalized, and profitability has been supported by declining interest rates
and strong trading income. Many leasing companies included in the project are supported
by parent banks and conglomerates, and all PFIs the ICR team met did not express any
management, liquidity or solvency problems.

Total credit to private sector by 4 PFI banks increased by 54 percent in 2007 from the
2006 level, but, as a result of the global crisis, declined by 13 percent in 2008 from the
2007 level (still higher by 33 percent over the 2006 level). Further, total export loans
(mostly export receivables) by 4 PFI banks increased by 40 percent in 2007 from the
2006 level, but declined by 26 percent in 2008 from the 2007 level (and 3.5 percent from
the 2006 level). Their performance in terms of the share of export loans in their total loan
portfolio was mixed (see Annex 9 for details on credit to private sector and export loans).

New business in the leasing industry has dropped dramatically in part as a result of
slowing demand and increased credit risk in the SME sector and in part as a result of the
investment finance nature of leasing. Total new leasing volume in 2009 is expected to
reach about US$2.2 billion after amounting to US$5.3 billion and US$8.3 billion in 2008
and 2007, respectively. The industry has traditionally focused on the SME segment,
where credit risk has been increasing and demand has been weakening more than among
larger firms. Recently, the average transaction size had grown substantially in response to
the crisis highlighting the shift away from SMEs. While the banking sector has been able
to shift transactions to working capital, the leasing industry has no such option.

(ii) Capacity building. The project has had a considerable impact among (i) TSKB,
which has built lending relationships and experience with PFIs, and a modern web-based
IT system to process loan applications by PFIs; (ii) PFIs, which have expanded their
client base and honed their skills in making medium- and long-term credit; (iii) exporters,
which have built a credit history with financial intermediaries and improved formal
documentation for gaining access to credit. Indeed, a number of the PFIs (especially the
leasing companies) indicated that the credit appraisal and documentation as well as
monitoring requirements under the project helped them upgrade their lending practices
with some of them introducing such practices in their leasing operations.



                                            22
(iii) Improved environmental practices. The project has improved the environmental
practices of exporters and the capacity of PFIs to assess environmental risks of borrowing
companies. The project's requirements for environmental protection procedures went
beyond what the PFIs had in place and mostly required the exporters to obtain "EIA not
required" certificates from the local authorities. Indeed, some PFIs (leasing companies)
indicated that they have decided to introduce in their operations environment practices
required by the project.

                      Table 2: Results Framework and Monitoring
               Indicator and target                             Results as measured
 PDO 1: Provision of medium and long-term working capital and investment finance to
 private exporters, and contribution to further facilitating export growth in Turkey.
 Indicator 1: Increase in access to finance for exporters measured by the number of enterprises
 and volume of exports supported.
 Export Multiplier: Incremental average             168 exporters supported.
 aggregate annual exports generated (measured       US$966 million in incremental exports
 over 3 years for all sub-borrowers)/total credit   generated, and export multiplier 3.3 for
 line disbursed)                                    2006-2008.
                                                    Exports by participating firms grew by 95
 ISR target export multiplier greater than 1        percent from US$2.2 billion in 2005 to
                                                    US$4.3 billion in 2008. For comparison,
                                                    export growth for Turkey was 80 percent in
                                                    the same period.
 Credit line Utilization: Amount of credit line     The credit line was fully disbursed by June
 actually disbursed/projected credit line           2009, one year ahead of projections.
 disbursement on a straight line basis

 PDO 2: Improvement in the quality, safety of and access to finance through development
 of financial intermediation in the Turkish private financial sector by banks and leasing
 companies.
 Indicator 2: Increased depth and breadth of financial intermediation as measured by the
 number of additional PFIs (banks and leasing companies) that participate in EFIL III different
 from those in EFIL II
 Range of Financial Intermediaries                 10 PFIs participated (4 banks and 6 leasing
 participation: Number of additional PFIs          companies) of which 4 banks and 3 leasing
 participating in EFIL III different from those in companies were new entrants relative to
 EFIL II                                           EFIL II.

 ISR Target 2-4 new PFIs
 Export Financing. Growth of export loans and          Total export loans (mostly export
 their share in PFI bank's total loan portfolio        receivables) by 4 PFI banks increased by 40
                                                       percent in 2007 from the 2006 level, but
 Added at ICR time                                     declined by 26 percent in 2008 from the
                                                       2007 level (and 3.5 percent increase from
                                                       the 2006 level). Their performance in terms
                                                       of the share of export loans in their total
                                                       loan portfolio was mixed (Annex 9).
 Credit to private sector. Growth in private           Total credit to private sector by 4 PFI banks



                                                  23
sector credit                                      increased by 54 percent in 2007 from the
                                                   2006 level, but, as a result of the global
Added at ICR time                                  crisis, declined by 13 percent in 2008 from
                                                   the 2007 level (still higher by 33 percent
                                                   over the 2006 level). (Annex 9)
Indicator 3: Improvement of quality of credit portfolio management by measuring the level of
debt service and amortization performance of sub-loans under EFIL III of the participating
banks and leasing firms.
Sub-loan Performance Indicators: Decreasing        During project, two borrowers defaulted
amount of non-performing sub-loans and leases; with a total of US$4.5 million outstanding
Interest and/or principal defaults/total amount of balance or 1.5 percent of the total disbursed
sub-loans and leases disbursed                     amount. One borrower later regained status
                                                   as performing thus reducing NPL ratio to
ISR target NPL ratio of less than 5 percent        0.7 percent as of June 2009 (at the time of
                                                   Loan Closing).
                                                   As of September 2009, NPL ratio was 3.0
                                                   percent (US$9.5 million) - for banks 1.0
                                                   percent and leasing companies 4.2 percent
                                                   (involving 1 bank and 4 leasing PFIs, see
                                                   Annex 9). For comparison, NPL ratio for
                                                   the Turkish banking sector was 4.9 percent
                                                   as of June 2009 and 5.3 percent, as of
                                                   September 2009 (11.9 percent for the
                                                   leasing sector).
Additional Indicators Added During Supervision

Financial performance of the Borrower and PFIs   With the exception of one PFI, which later
                                                 recovered, all financial intermediaries in the
                                                 project remained sound throughout the
                                                 project's implementation period. Financial
                                                 indicators are included in Annex 9.
Loan distribution among regions, sector and size Sub-loans are broadly widely distributed
of firms                                         among 168 entities with a maximum sub-
                                                 borrower loan size of 3.2 percent of the total
                                                 project amount. Fifty percent of the loan
                                                 volume (21.5 percent by amount) was for
                                                 sub-loans of less than US$1.0 million. Sixty
                                                 percent of sub-loans (48 percent by amount)
                                                 were made to SMEs. There is significant
                                                 concentration in the Marmara region (which
                                                 includes Istanbul). The textile industry,
                                                 which accounted for 23 percent of Turkey's
                                                 manufacturing exports in 2008, accounts for
                                                 29.0 percent of the sub-loans. (Annex 10).
Employment growth of sub-borrowers               The planned employment growth as a result
                                                 of the project was 3,725. Actual numbers
                                                 show a reduction of 655 jobs (or 1.5
                                                 percent) as of end 2008. For comparison,
                                                 unemployment rate in Turkey was 13.4
                                                 percent in October 2009.



                                              24
                     ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS

At the level of exporters, which are the ultimate beneficiaries, economic and financial
analysis has not been conducted, but outcomes (export performance and planned
employment impact) have been measured (see Annex 2). There are 168 sub-borrowers in
the project, and it would not be practical to go beyond those measures for economic and
financial analysis considering that intermediaries already find it to be a significant cost of
the project to collect just the outcome measures. See Annex 5 for the results of
beneficiary survey.




                                             25
 ANNEX 4. BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES

(a) Task Team members

                                                                   Responsibility/
          Names                        Title               Unit
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Lalit Raina             Sector Manager                    ECSPF Team Leader
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora     Sr Operations Off.                ECSSD Team member
Marius Vismantas        Financial Sector Spec.            ECSPF Team member
                                                                Financial
Ayse Seda Aroymak       Sr Financial Management Spec.     ECSPS
                                                                management
Dilek Barlas            Deputy Executive Secretary         IPN Legal
Furuzan Bilir           Operations Officer                ECCU6 Disbursement
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu    Procurement Spec.                 ECSPS Procurement

Supervision/ICR
                                                                  Team Leader
Lalit Raina             Sector Manager                    ECSPF
                                                                  (supervision)
Carlos Pinerua          Country Sector Coordinator        ECSPF   Team Leader (ICR)
                                                                  Team Leader
Steen Byskov            Financial Sector Spec.            ECSPF
                                                                  (supervision)
Vinod K. Goel           Consultant                        ECSPF   ICR team
Halil Agah              Senior Rural Development Spec.    ECSSD   Team member
                                                                  Financial
Ayse Seda Aroymak       Sr Financial Management Spec.     ECSPS
                                                                  management
Dilek Barlas            Deputy Executive Secretary          IPN   Legal
Furuzan Bilir           Operations Officer                ECCU6   Disbursement
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu    Procurement Spec.                 ECSPS   Procurement
Isfandyar Zaman Khan    Financial Sector Spec.            ECSPF   Team member
Irina L. Kichigina      Chief Counsel                     LEGEM   Legal
Zeynep Lalik            Financial Management Specialist   ECSPS   Team member
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora     Sr Operations Officer             ECSSD   Team member
Marius Vismantas        Financial Sector Spec.            ECSPF   Team member




                                         26
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands
                                   No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                            consultant costs)

Lending

  FY05                                       20.98                98.42
  FY06                                                             0.00
  FY07                                                             0.00
                          Total:                                  98.42
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                       29.88               154.44
  FY07                                       38.63               181.15
  FY08                                       47.17               184.15
  FY09                                       24.39               103.10
  FY10                                        1.25                21.64
                         Total:                                  644.48
                   Grand Total:                                  742.90




                                        27
                        ANNEX 5. BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS

The ICR team commissioned an independent survey of project beneficiaries to assess the
impact of EFIL III program on beneficiary firms. The survey sample consisted of 168
project participants and 50 test group firms in similar sectors and similar regions of the
country. Comparing the performance of the participating firms with the performance of a
comparator group is useful because it makes it possible to control for changes in the
external environment that might have affected the performance of participants and,
therefore, provides stronger evidence that the project improved firm performance.

The sample size and questionnaire were finalized in consultation with TSKB who
requested participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) to assist in the survey. The firms
(and PFIs) were provided a written questionnaire and were given several options to
provide data--face to face interview, phone interview, and internet. Participating firms
were initially contacted by (and continually encouraged) by PFIs to provide data
(comparator firms were selected and contacted by the survey firm). This was followed up
by the survey firm on a regular basis. Not surprisingly, some firms were reluctant to
provide data and many even refused to do so.

This note presents a summary based upon a subset of survey data­ 50 comparator firms
and 72 participant firms. Unfortunately, with the small data set available it is not possible
to use more sophisticated econometric techniques (e.g., matching or regression analysis)
to control for difference between the firms.

I. Comparison of Performance of Participating and Non-Participating Firms

A first exercise is to compare the performance of participating firms with the
performance of the comparator firms between 2005 and 2008. This comparison is useful
because it shows controls for the possibility that the observed growth in exports or other
things might be due to things that are external to participation in the program. That is,
without comparison to a comparator group, it would be possible that any observed growth
could be due to external economic factors that encouraged growth in the overall
economy.

The preliminary data provide good evidence that participant firms outperformed non-
participant firms between 2005 and 2008 (Figure 1). Exports grew by 10.4 percent in real
terms over this period for the median participating firm compared to only zero percent for
the median comparator firm. Similarly, sales grew by about 11.7 percent in real terms for
the median participating firm and only 6.2 percent in real terms for the median
comparator firm. Finally, employment grew by about 8.9 percent for participating firms
and only 2.5 percent for comparator firms over this period. The preliminary analysis
therefore indicates that participating firms grew more quickly than the comparator firms
in a number of important ways between 2005 and 2008.




                                             28
                   Figure 1: EFIL firms grew more quickly in terms of exports, sales and
                                              employment
                                            Me dian grow th rate s (2005-08)


      14.0
                                                             11.7
      12.0
                              10.4
      10.0                                                                                         8.9

          8.0
                                                                                                                     Non-EF IL F irms
                                                    6.2
          6.0                                                                                                        EF IL F irms


          4.0
                                                                                            2.5
          2.0
                        0.0
          0.0
                      Export Grow th               Sales Grow th                   Employment Grow th


     Note. All growth rates are real growths using the GDP deflator to convert into constant TYL

Other evidence from the survey also suggests that participant firms performed better than
Non-participating firms over this period. In addition to asking firms about their sales,
exports and employment, firms were also asked about the adoption of new technologies,
introduction of new products, initiatives on environmental management and if they
entered new export markets (Figure 2). Participating firms were more likely to introduce
new products than non-participating firms over the period. Almost twice as many
participating firms did so between 2005 and 2008 (58 percent compared to 29 percent for
comparator firms). Further, more firms also adopted new technologies to reduce cost (88
percent compared to 61 percent for comparator firms) and expanded their client bases (79
percent compared to 58 percent for comparator firms).
   Figure 2: EFIL firms were more likely to introduce new technologies, improve environmental
                            management, and export to new markets
                                       % of firms taking action in past three years

    100                                       88
     90                                                                      79                          79
     80                                                                                                                       69
     70                 58             61                         58
     60                                                                                                                 48
                                                                                                  47
     50
     40          29
     30
     20
     10
      0
                New product      New technology that         New technology to              Improve environmental Export to new markets
                                    reduces cost             expand client base                  management

                                                          Non-EF IL F irms        EF IL firms




Participating firms were also more likely to report that they had improved environmental
management than non-participating firms. Whereas about 47 percent of non-participating


                                                                  29
firms reported that they had improved environmental management, about 79 percent of
participating firms reported the same. Participating firms that did improve environmental
management also tended to take more actions to improve their management than non-
participating firms that had done so. Participants were also more likely to start exporting
to new areas than comparator firms were. Whereas 48 percent of comparator firms
reported that they started exporting to new markets between 2005 and 2008, compared to
69 percent of participating firms. Finally, EFIL participating firms were also more likely
to spend on R&D, upgrade existing products and services, obtain internationally
recognized quality certification, use foreign technologies and operate formal training
programs for their permanent employees (Figure 3).

    Figure 3: EFIL firms were more likely to spend on R&D, upgrade products, obtain quality
       certification, use foreign technologies and have formal employee training programs
                                                    % of firms using innovation in
                                                            past three years

     80                                        75                            75
                                                                                                                                 67
     70
                                                                 60
     60
                                        50
     50
                       39                                                                                                 40
     40
                                                                                                        31
     30
                19                                                                               18
     20
     10
     0
          Spend on R&D activities   Upgraded existing       Have internationally           Use technology licensed Formal employee training
                                    product or service      recognised quality               from foreign ow ned           program
                                                                certificate                       company


                                                          Non-EF IL F irms        EF IL firms




Of the 41 participating firms that improved environmental management, about 90 percent
reduced, reused and recycled waste, 41 percent imposed responsibility for environmental
management on management, 39 percent applied environmentally friendly technologies,
49 percent updated environmental facilities, 37 percent provided in-house training on
environmental management, 34 percent established management systems (e.g., ISO
14001) and 41 percent closely supervised environmental practices at work level (Table
1). Fewer of the non-participating firms that had improved environmental management in
the past three years did any of these things other than updating environmental facilities.
In summary, participating firms were more likely to improve environmental management
and did so more aggressively when they did.
 Table 1: Actions taken to improve environmental management by firms improving environmental
                                      management practices




                                                                  30
                                                                                 Comparator
                                                       Participant Firms           Firms
   Reduce, reuse and recycle waste                            90%                   65%
   Impose responsibility on management                        41%                   26%
   Apply environmental friendly technologies                  39%                   26%
   Update environmental facilities                            49%                   52%
   Provide in-house training                                  37%                   26%
   Establish management systems                               34%                    9%
   Closely supervise at work level                            41%                   35%
       Note: Only includes firms that improved environmental management

In summary, the available evidence suggests that participating firms improved their
performance more along a number of important dimensions than non-participating firms
did. They appear to have grown faster on average in terms of employment, sales and
exports and were more likely to be innovative and introduce new technologies, improve
environmental management and enter new export markets.

II. Participants Views of the EFIL Program

Firms that participated in the program were also asked a series of questions about how
they saw the program. For the most part, participating firms appeared to be satisfied with
the program (Figure 4). When asked how satisfied they were with the EFIL program,
about 69 percent said that they were satisfied and 16 percent said that they were very
satisfied. Only about 8 percent said that they were only moderately satisfied and about 6
percent said that they were not satisfied. Consistent with this about 89 percent of
participants said that they would participate in the program again if it was possible.
                  Figure 4: Most participants were satisfied with the EFIL program
      H                                                  W
                           N   S

          V   S                                                              N
                                       M
                                   S




                       S
                                                                   Y




To assess the program's effectiveness, it is also useful to look at the additionality of the
financing they received. That is, it is interesting to see whether the firm managers
believed that they would have been able to finance the investments that they made using
EFIL program resources in other ways if they had not received funds. If EFIL funds are
just replacing funds, then the additionality might be more modest than if they are



                                                31
allowing the firms to do things that they would not have been able to do if the absence of
the program.

For the most part, it appears that the firms believed that there was some additionality.
Only about 35 percent of the firms that received financing believed that they would have
been able to fully finance the investment or working capital that they financed with the
loans from the EFIL program in other ways in the absence of receiving EFIL funds
(Figure 5). In addition, about 47 percent said that they would have been able to partially
finance the investments that they received in other ways in absence of program funds. A
small number of firms (18 percent) reported that they would not have been able to
finance any part of the investment or working capital needs without loans from the EFIL
program.
Figure 5: Many of the managers believed that if they had not received funds from the program, they
                       would not have been able to finance the investment




                                  N

                                                           F




                                      P




Firms that believed they could have partly or fully financed in other ways in the absence
of the program were asked how they would have done it. Firms were allowed to indicate
multiple sources of financing. Most of the firms that believed they would have been able
to partly or fully finance in other ways in the absence of the program believed that they
would have done so with bank loans (83 percent). Of the firms that reported that they
could have used bank financing, about half also reported that they would have used other
source of financing (e.g., equity or loan from owners) in addition to bank financing to
fully or partly finance the investment.

Fewer firms reported that they would have used additional equity financing or loan
financing from the owner (46 percent) or from retained earnings (15 percent). Very few
firms (less than 10 percent) reported other sources such as loans from family or friends,
loans from other sources, other equity investment, or credit from suppliers or customers.

Finally, participant firms were also asked whether they found any problems with the
various aspects of the EFIL program. Of the four areas that were asked about, few
complained about any of the areas. The most common concern was procurement


                                               32
thresholds for commercial practice ­ about one in five participants said that this had been
a major obstacle. The next most common concern was restrictions on land purchases ­
about 19 percent said that this had been a serious problem (Figure 6). Finally, about 15
percent said that provisions related to invoicing and 9 percent said that a restriction on
purchasing consultant services was a major restriction.
Figure 6: Although few firms had major concerns about program provisions, they were more likely
   to say that thresholds for commercial practice were a serious problem than other provisions
                  % of firm s s aying re quirem e nts w e re s erious obs tacles


     25.0
                                                                                     21.6
                                                                18.9
     20.0
                                          15.0
     15.0

     10.0           8.6


      5.0

      0.0
            No consultant service      Invoicing         No land purchase       Thresholds f or
                 purchases                                                    commercial practice




Overall, most of the evidence suggests that firms were relatively satisfied with the
program. Less than one in five firms said that they were only moderately or not satisfied
with the program and 89 percent said that they would participate again. Moreover, few
firms said that specific restrictions were serious problems. Finally, the program seems to
have had some additionality in that many of the firms said that they would have been able
to finance their investments only partly or not at all in the absence of the program.




                                                   33
               Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No workshop was held.




                                     34
        ANNEX 7. SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR

B                     ICR       TSKB

    A


        O
P                     EFIL III
                                                          B            E                   T
                                                                             T

                                                                                                   T
                                                                                     T
                                                                   E


        O
L                                                                                  PFI
                            L                                     EFIL II T

                                          B   TSKB TSKB                                  PFI
               T    PFI

                            T       PFI                                                        A
                                                                             PFI

    PFI                                                       A        USD
    FFK F F         K           A
    I F       K         A
    Y K      F        K              A
    G      F       K            A
    A        F        K              A
    F     F       K             A
    F          AS
    A            AS
    T          AS
    D         AS
    T

    PFI                                                       A        EUR
    Y K      F        K              A
    I F      K         A
    F     F       K             A
    FFK F F         K            A
    G      F       K             A
    A            AS
    F          AS
    T



                                                 35
A                EFIL III USD                                                                   FFK F        F                  K                  AS
Y    K    F      K          AS I F       K                                          AS A                     F                  K                  AS
F      F       K          AS      D    F                                        K               AS
 F          AS A              AS     D                                          AS                S                     L    A
 SLA      TSKB T                                                                                      PFI               USD
             USD                                                                T                                          D                  F
K                           M    USD      T                                               AS                            USD                    G
F       K       AS            USD                                                         PFI

A                        EFIL III EUR                                                    Y K                    F                 K       AS
F           F          K          A S FFK F          F      K                         AS I F                        K                 AS D
F               K        AS                                A                             AS                 F                         AS
S                L     A             SLA             TSKB T
PFI             EUR                                      EUR                                                                        T
                   D        F          K                                                  M            EUR                  G                 F
K               AS               EUR                                            PFI

      O
T                                                                                                TSKB T                 PFI
                                                                                                PFI
                                                 U       EFIL II
                                                                                          IT                                TSKB T
                                                                                                            EFIL III              W
                                                                                                       A

                                                              PFI                                                       T
                                                                                                                                                   TSKB
                                                                                  PFI
              T                                                                 PFI N            PFI

                TSKB              IT
                                                                        I                                                                          TSKB

                        D                                                   TSKB PIU
      PFI

   O
D                                                        P          I                            U          PIU
TSKB                                   B                                                                                      E                     V
P                                                                                   PIU                                                            B
          A                                                                 B
                                                                                                            FMR                           B         T
                                TSKB       PFI           TSKB                    B
F             TSKB
                                                                T

T                                                                                                                                     I



                                                              36
                          T                                                                                                  T
                                                                T                                      PFI                                    N
                                                                                                D                                    T
        PFI                                         EFIL III S                                                   A
                                                 PFI                             EFIL III                    T
                      T                                                           T       B                           NPL


    C                       T                               B
A                         PFI                    EFIL III
                                                   C                                                             P
              A                                                                                                        A PFI
                                                                                                                     TSKB
                          TSKB                                          A                 PFI
                                                                                      T
                                 PFI

    A

T       P                                        EFIL III
                                                                                                B              E         A
                                                                     USD                                  EFIL III USD T
                                                                      EUR                              EFIL III EUR T      I
                                                                     EFIL III              T
                          T
        T

                           T                                PFI                            EFIL III                                            EFIL I
                  EFIL II I EFIL I                                                          PFI                                                    EFIL II
     EFIL III                                     PFI                                                                A
PFI S EFIL III                                                                             EFIL III A                    B           A
D             F                                     T                                                                            A                 L
F        L                           L                                                T

                                     A
                                                                    S

                                 T
              USD                            EUR

FFK F             F              K                   A      G               F          K                A        Y                       K         F
K                 A                                      PFI                    EFIL II             EFIL III T                               PFI
                           EFIL III                                             D                            EFIL III
        PFI                                  T                                                                                                     USD
                USD                                                 USD T                      EUR                               EUR
            EUR T                        T                                                        USD                            EUR
                  J



                                                                                 37
O                                       USD                            USD
                                USD                                                                                        T
                                                                                                 USD             USD
                                L
                          USD            USD                                         F
                            USD                     O                                                                      T
                                                                                                            T
                                                                                             T
                T                   EFIL III                                                               USD


        E



A TSKB                                                      EFIL I                       E                             APEX
B                           B                           I                    A                         EFIL II
                                                                          EFIL III

T                                                                                                                          T

                T
                                                        T
                                        W
                                                                          S


        E                                                   B



T           B
                    D                                                                                            B
        W                   IBRD A              O               TSKB PIU


        D

T                                         EFIL II           EFIL III                             EFIL IV
                                         TSKB T                               EFIL IV                            USD
                    EUR                                                                           S                        T
                                         EFIL




    T       E                                                             USD                                          J
                            EUR                USD
    T                                             EFIL IV


                                                                     38
    I


T                             EFIL III

P

                                                               B
                                                                   SME
B                                                                                SME

            E
                                                                       A

                                                                   B
                                                 B
                    A

NPL                                                                                 I               A
                            USD                                        M          NPL
                                     N
        B
V
                                                                                                H
                                                                                            T

T
                        T
T
                             F
            T
                                         N                     NIM
                T
                                             T
            B
                T


                                                                                        B
ROE             ROA
                                                                           CAR
                                                                                                        F
                                                          T
                                                     EU                                         NIM
                                                                                                  I

                                                                   H                                ROE
                                                 H


                                                          39
                  EM                                M           J
          I

                  AFS

W                                  M        J                       G
              ON                            CBT H                                                     T

                                                            O
                                                        T

                                                                                                  O

                            H           H
              Q     NPL                                                                 Q                 S


W                                   T                                                 Q
                                                                                    GDP                                F         Q
                                       TRY                                                                              Q
                                  USD TRY                                FX                                                     USD
          H                                                                                                   FX
                            TRY                                               TRY                     O

                                                                                                                            T
                                                                                USD
                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                  W
                                   Q FX

S                       Q

                                        T     B     S       D           L G     A           TRY
    TRY                                                                  E          E             E                E   E
    A
    C
    O
    H
    C
    SME
    FX
    T L
H


                                                                        40
    ASSETS                                         (million TRY)                                                             YoY Change
                2007          2008E              2009E           2010E           2011E       2012E            2007 2008E 2009E 2010E 2011E 2012E CAGR

    Sector     433.686         536.314           672.854        837.332        1.041.495   1.294.697           17% 24% 25% 24% 24% 24%                    24%


    DEPOSITS                                       (million TRY)                                                             YoY Change
                2007          2008E              2009E           2010E           2011E       2012E            2007 2008E 2009E 2010E 2011E 2012E CAGR

    Sector     270.520         342.024           435.043        536.884         648.079     775.300            16% 26% 27% 23% 21% 20%                    23%

L                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                         A            G                    Y
K                                                                                  T             IB
                                                                                                                   I B
                                                      W

                         A
                                       F                              F


                   Total    New                     New Branches Projected (*) Total                               Bank's announcements, comments
                 Branches Branches                                           Branches
                           Opened                                            Projected
               2006 2007    2007                   2008 2009 2010 2011 2012    2012
    AKBNK        683  716        33                   100 100  100  100  100      1,216                            1,200 branches by 2012, 100 branches
                                                                                                                   each year
    ALBRK           63        80            17             20    20       20        20      20              180    200 branches by 2013, 20 branches each
                                                                                                                   year
    ALNTF          29         40            11             10    20       20        20      20              130    150 branches by 2012
    ASYAB          91        118            27             25    25       25        25      25              243
    DENIZ         262        320            58             80    50       50        50      50              600
    FORTS         225        268            43             50    50       50        50      50              518    40-50 branches in 2008. 575-600
                                                                                                                   branches by 2011
    FINBN         309        411           102             64    75       50        50      50              700    475 branches by the end of 2008, 550
                                                                                                                   branches by the end of 2009

    GARAN         483        588           105 100-150          150       150      100     100             1,238   1,000 branches by 2010
    HALKB         588        590             2        5           5         5        5       5               615   New branches in the 3 biggest cities
    ISCTR         891        939            48       50          50        50       50      50             1,189
    SKBNK         209        235            26       25          20        20       20      20               340   300 branches by 2010
    TEBNK         170        273           103      100          50        50       50      50               573   Branch opening ratio will be preserved in
                                                                                                                   2008.
    TEKST          48       59          11        15    15      15     15     15                          134
    VAKBN         314      362          48       120    50      50     50     50                          682
    YKBNK         598      676          78       160   180      50     50     50                        1,166      1,000 branches by 2010
    Total      4,963 5,675            712       824 860 705 655 655                                    9,524
    (*) Colored projections are stated by banks. The uncolored ones are estimations.


W                                                                          I                                                  Q
                                                                                                                   L                             O
                    L                                                                                                                                     NPL
                                                                                                       I                                    Q              NPL
                                   E                                                                                              B
                                                                   S                                                                                        AFS


                                                                                 41
                      HTM
                CBT                                    I   CBT O N
          L                      A
T     J               BRSA R             A
                           NPL
                       NPL           H
      L                          L       E                 M       J
      L                  T

FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER AND PFIS

                                         TSKB F    P
                                                               H
 C
 E
 R
 R
 G            NPL L
USD
 T        A
 L
 E




                                                  42
                     EFIL III DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS BY REGION SECTOR AND LOAN SIZE
CONSOLIDATED LOAN DISTRIBUTION REPORT A
                                                                                 N
SECTOR                                                                A    USD       S

T                    T            P
B        M                    F                   M         P
F        P                        B
P        P                   P            P             P
P
W                W            P
C                    S                        C
M
L
M                        E                        NEC
I
F
R                    P            P
E                        O            E
O            N   M                M               P
S        B
M                Q
C                C                    P                     M
M        F
TOTAL
CONSOLIDATED LOAN DISTRIBUTION REPORT A
                                                                                 N
REGION                                                                A    USD       S

M
A
S                A
M
C            A
B        S
TOTAL
CONSOLIDATED LOAN DISTRIBUTION REPORT A
                                                                                 N
                              L           S                           A    USD       S

    US
US                       US
US                           US
    US
TOTAL
 E                                                              USD




                                                                      43
   ANNEX 8. COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS


PFIs provided useful comments and feedback during the ICR mission. A summary is
provided in Section 7.c, but, due to confidentiality reasons, detailed comments are not
mentioned in the ICR.




                                          44
                    ANNEX 9: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER AND PFIS

A. BORROWER (TSKB) FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

 TSKB                         2004            2005         2006        2007        2008          20091H
 Capital adequacy ratio       42.8%           36.8%        32.9%       27.6%       21.1%          22.0%
 Equity/assets                16.7%           16.7%        14.5%       15.1%       12.1%          14.3%
 Return on equity             13.3%           21.4%        18.7%       22.2%       16.0%          22.0%
 Return on assets             2.2%            3.5%          2.9%       3.3%        2.1%            2.9%
 Gross NPLs/ Total loans      4.2%            2.4%          1.3%       0.7%        0.7%            0.6%
 Total Assets (USD million)   1,707           2,470        2,881       4,195       4,095           4,099
 Loans (USD million)          1,038           1,329        1,757       2,393       2,562           2,542

 Equity (USD million)          285             412             418      634         495            587



          NON PERFORMING LOANS- PFIS' OVERALL PORTFOLIO AND EFIL III PORTFOLIO
                                   2008                   2009 Q2                        2009 Q3
 EFIL III PFIs                   Overall              Overall    EFIL III      Overall         EFIL III
 Banks
 Alternatif Bank                      5.40%            6.40%         0.70%        6.50%            2.90%
 Denizbank                            3.20%            4.80%          none        5.00%             none
 Finansbank                           3.70%            6.60%          none        6.62%             none
 Tekstilbank                          3.30%            6.80%          none        6.70%             none
 Leasing Companies
 Alternatif Leasing                   1.40%            0.90%           none          n/a          10.60%
 FFK Leasing                         12.00%           19.90%           none      12.90%            0.20%
 Finans Leasing                       6.50%           11.60%           none      12.10%              none
 Garanti Leasing                      0.70%            1.20%           none          n/a             none
   Leasing                            7.30%           11.10%           none      11.00%           10.70%
 Yap Kredi Leasing                    6.50%            9.80%           none      10.67%            6.00%

Source: All data in Annex 9 was provided by TSKB




                                                         45
B. PERFORMANCE OF BANKS ACTING AS PFIS

                                  Financial Performance Indicators
 PFI                               2006             2007                2008                 20091H
 Alternatif bank
 Return on assets                  2.0%             3.0%                2.0%                    3.0%
 Return on equity                  22.0%            28.0%               14.0%                  21.0%
 Equity/Assets                     9.2%             9.4%                10.0%                  11.9%
 Gross NPL ratio                   2.80%            3.50%               5.40%                  6.40%
 Capital adequacy ratio*           12.7%            14.6%               14.1%                  13.9%
 Denizbank
 Return on assets                  3.0%             2.0%                2.0%                    2.0%
 Return on equity                  28.0%            23.0%               17.0%                  22.0%
 Equity/Assets                     10.8%            9.8%                10.6%                  11.7%
 Gross NPL ratio                   2.40%            2.40%               3.20%                  4.80%
 Capital adequacy ratio*           15.5%            13.2%               17.2%                  17.6%
 Finansbank
 Return on assets                  8.0%             6.0%                4.0%                    3.0%
 Return on equity                  21.0%            22.0%               18.0%                  14.0%
 Equity/Assets                     12.0%            12.6%               10.7%                  13.7%
 Gross NPL ratio                   2.30%            2.80%               3.70%                  6.60%
 Capital adequacy ratio*           16.8%            13.0%               16.1%                  18.3%
 Tekstilbank
 Return on assets                  1.0%             1.0%                0.0%                    1.0%
 Return on equity                  6.0%             12.0%               1.0%                    5.0%
 Equity/Assets                     11.9%            13.1%               15.2%                  22.8%
 Gross NPL ratio                   0.80%            1.40%               3.30%                  6.80%
 Capital adequacy ratio*           14.2%            13.2%               17.9%                  21.7%
* Risk weighted
                                  Total Loans and Export Loans
 PFI-Banks                          2006             2007                   2008              20091H
 Alternatif bank
 Export Loans (000 USD)             163               242                262                    252
 Total Loans (000 USD)              951              1,600              1,568                  1,590
 Export Loans / Total
 Loans                             17.1%            15.1%               16.7%                  15.9%
 Denizbank
 Export Loans (000 USD)              514              760                428                    399
 Total Loans (000 USD)              4,830            8,934              8,437                  8,602
 Export Loans / Total
 Loans                             10.6%             8.5%                   5.1%                4.6%
 Finansbank
 Export Loans (000 USD)              612             784                 719                    519
 Total Loans (000 USD)              7,814           12,170              11,822                 9,944
 Export Loans / Total
 Loans                              7.8%             6.4%                   6.1%                5.2%
 Tekstilbank
 Export Loans (000 USD)              227              331                158                    132
 Total Loans (000 USD)              1,198            1,788              1,062                   862
 Export Loans / Total
 Loans                             18.9%            18.5%               14.9%                  15.3%

                                  Credit to Private Sector (Real Sector)
                                       Amounts (US$000)                                   As % of total credit
                           2006              2007             2008                 2006          2007            2008
 Alternatif bank             901,551         1,553,088        1,486,169            95%           97%             95%
 Denizbank
                           3,349,997         6,254,473        5,616,856            69%           70%             67%
 Finansbank                4,502,095         5,862,232        5,248,943            58%           48%             44%
 Tekstilbank
                           1,137,825         1,516,342            837,966          95%           85%             79%
1/ Excluding credit extended to financial institutions, and consumer loans and credit card receivables.



                                                             46
C. PERFORMANCE OF LEASING COMPANIES ACTING AS PFIS
                     Financial Performance Indicators
 Alternatif Leasing
 Return on assets                     10.8%          3.9%             2.7%          0.2%
 Return on equity                     40.5%          31.9%           20.4%          1.1%
 Equity/Assets                        14.3%          15.6%           14.5%          15.7%
 Net Lease Receiv./Assets             86.8%          88.0%           81.8%          79.7%
 Gross NPL Ratio                      0.70%          0.70%           1.40%          0.90%
 FFK Leasing
 Return on assets                     4.1%            2.3%            4.2%          0.3%
 Return on equity                     26.0%           10.7%          16.0%          1.2%
 Equity/Assets                        13.5%           29.6%          22.0%          25.9%
 Net Lease Receiv./Assets             74.6%           66.4%          46.9%          68.9%
 Gross NPL Ratio                      0.40%          10.00%         12.00%         19.90%
 Finans Leasing
 Return on assets                     7.7%           5.7%             3.8%          2.9%
 Return on equity                     21.1%          21.7%           17.9%          13.5%
 Equity/Assets                        30.9%          22.0%           19.9%          25.1%
 Net Lease Receiv./Assets             79.0%          72.4%           49.1%          65.2%
 Gross NPL Ratio                      1.80%          1.20%           6.50%         11.60%
 Garanti Leasing
 Return on assets                     31,1%          33,1%           29,3%          23,2%
 Return on equity                     3,6 %          3,6%             3,3%          3,1%
 Equity/Assets                        11.0%          9,7%            12.0%         14,83%
 Net Lease Receiv./Assets             96.6%          91.0%           34.5%          90.2%
 Gross NPL Ratio                      0.90%          0.80%           0.70%          1.20%
   Leasing
 Return on assets                     3,4 %          4,8 %          6,67 %         3,79 %
 Return on equity                     19,1 %         25,2 %         30,4 %         16,4 %
 Equity/Assets                        18.0%          20.0%          23,0 %         23,0 %
 Net Lease Receiv./Assets             79.0%          72.4%          49.1%           65.2%
 Gross NPL Ratio                      9.90%          8.10%          7.30%          11.10%
 Yap Kredi Leasing*
 Return on assets                      n.m.          6.3%             5.0%          2.9%
 Return on equity                      n.m.          25.6%           22.7%          12.7%
 Equity/Assets                        28.4%          22.2%           21.7%          23.4%
 Net Lease Receiv./Assets             94.2%          94.5%           95.2%          94.8%
 Gross NPL Ratio                      3.60%          3.40%           6.50%          9.80%

                     Operational Indicators (US$ million)
                         NLR       NLV       Profit     NLR         NLV           Profit      NLR
 Alternatif Leasing       193       139        7         178          108           6          161
 FFK Leasing              363       190        11        274          116          19          234
 Finans Leasing           858       711        39        782          432          37          637
 Garanti Leasing         1,722     1,526       44       1,396         799          54         1,243
 IS Leasing               658       445        36        612          359          59          580
 Yap Kredi Leasing*      2,028     1,562      102       1,774         794          103        1,562
Net Lease Receivables (NLR), New Leasing Volume (NLV) and Profitability

*Following the merger with Koç Lease, ratios for the year 2006 and 2007 are followed under Yap Kredi Leasing.




                                                              47
ANNEX 10. DISTRIBUTION OF LOANS BY REGION, SECTOR, AND LOAN & EMPLLOYMENT SIZE
                                                                                                Amount                   Number of Loans
SECTOR
                                                                               US$ million*              Share (%)      Count        Share (%)
Textiles and Textile Products                                                              90.611               29.0            61         29.5
Basic Metals and Fabricated Metal Products                                                 43.237               13.8            27         13.0
Food Products and Beverages                                                                40.131               12.8            24         11.6
Pulp, Paper and Paper Products, Publ.& Printing                                            22.923                7.3            12          5.8
Wood and Wood Products                                                                     18.508                5.9             6          2.9
Construction Services & Construction Materials                                             16.961                5.4            15          7.2
Logistics                                                                                  12.103                3.9            12          5.8
Machinery and Equipment N.E.C.                                                             12.101                3.9            14          6.8
Industrial packaging                                                                       11.427                3.7             7          3.4
Furniture                                                                                  10.635                3.4             3          1.4
Rubber and Plastic Products                                                                10.425                3.3             9          4.3
Electrical and Optical Equipment                                                               8.115             2.6             6          2.9
Other Non-Metallic Mineral Products                                                            5.786             1.8             3          1.4
Ship Building                                                                                  4.900             1.6             1          0.5
Mining and Quarrying                                                                           2.739             0.9             4          1.9
Chemicals, Chemical Products & Man-Made Fibers                                                 2.327             0.7             3          1.4
TOTAL                                                                                     312.928             100.0         207        100.0
                                                                                            Amount                       Number of Loans
REGION
                                                                              US$ million*             Share (%)       Count         Share (%)
Marmara                                                                                 186.644                59.6          123           59.4
Aegean                                                                                    38.262               12.2             31         15.0
Southeast Anatolia                                                                        30.974                9.9             18          8.7
Mediterranean                                                                             30.524                9.8             15          7.2
Central Anatolia                                                                          20.358                6.5             16          7.7
Black Sea                                                                                      6.166            2.0              4          1.9
TOTAL                                                                               312.928          100.0                  207         100.0
                                                                                        Amount                           Number of Loans
SUB-LOAN SIZE
                                                                              US$ million*     Share (%)                Count     Share (%)
< US$250,000                                                                           2.291            0.7                   11           5.3
US$250,000 ­ US$1,000,000                                                             65.243           20.8                   94          45.4
US$1,000,000 ­ US$2,500,000                                                         115.541            36.9                   71          34.3
> US$2,500,000                                                                      129.852            41.5                   31          15.0
TOTAL                                                                               312.928           100.0                 207         100.0
                                                                                  Amount                               Number of Beneficiaries
EMPLOYMENT SIZE
                                                                              US$ million*             Share (%)       Count         Share (%)
  50                                                                                      21.810                7.0             25         14.9
50-250                                                                                  128.619                41.1             76         45.2
> 250                                                                                   162.499                51.9             67         39.9
TOTAL                                                                                   312.928               100.0          168          100,0

* Euro disbursements are converted to US$ @ exchange rate 1 =1.4116 US$ as of June 30, 2009.




                                                                           48
                    ANNEX 11. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

1. Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL) Project Appraisal Document, Report No:
   19271-TR, June 1999.

2. Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL) Implementation Completion Report,
   Report No: 27566, December 2003.

3. Second Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL II) Project Appraisal Document,
   Report No: 26937-TR, December 2003.

4. Third Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL III) Project Appraisal Document,
   Report No: 31440-TR, April 2005.

5. Independent Evaluation Group (2006), "World Bank Lending for Lines of Credit: An
   IEG Evaluation", The World Bank, Washington, D.C.

6. The World Bank (2007), "Turkey: Investment Climate Assessment", The World
   Bank, Washington, D.C.

7. Second Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL II) Implementation Completion
   and Results Report, Report No: ICR0000610, January 2008.

8. The Fourth Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL IV) Project Appraisal
   Document, Report No: 42800-TR, May 2008.

9. Project Aide Memoires, ISRs, FMRs and various other documents.

10. Operational Manual

11. Financial Reports for TSKB and PFIs

12. Financial Management Assessment and Procurement Assessments Reports




                                          49
50
