Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 19544
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit No. 2554-GM)
June 30, 1999
Water and Urban 2
Country Department 14
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Dalasi (D)
US$ 1.00         D 1098 (At appraisal 1993)
US$1.00         D 10.2 (June 1998)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP           Agence pour l'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public (Public
Works Executing Agency)
BCC              Banjul City Council
GAMWORKS    Gambian Agency for the Management of Public Works
GBA              Greater Banjul Area
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
KMC              Kanifing Municipal Council
LGA              Local Government Areas
MLGL             Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MOF              Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MWC              Ministry of Works and Communications
NGO              Non-governmental Organization
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SME              Small and Medium Enterprises
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director: Mahmood A. Ayub, AFC14
Team Leader: Noel Carrere, AFTU2
Sector Leader: Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(CR. 2554-GM)
Contents
PREFACE                                                                     ;
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                         ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                  1
BACKGROUND                                                                1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES                                    2
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                                             4
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                   9
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABELITY                                               II
E. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                     13
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                                 13
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                                 14
H. FUTURE OPERATION                                                      14
I.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                                  15
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES                                                17
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS                                         17
TABLE 2: RELATED LOANS AND CREDITS                                       19
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMTABLE                                               19
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL      20
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                      20
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT                                21
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS                                                 21
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING                                             21
TABLE 8: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS                                      22
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: STAFFINPUTS                                    23
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS                                      23
APPENDIX:
A. BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO TIE ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(CR. 2554-GM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Works and Capacity
Building project, for which Credit 2554-GM, in the amount of SDR 7.9 million (US$11.0 million
equivalent), was approved on December 14, 1993, and made effective on November 14, 1994.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of June 30, 1997.
Final disbursement took place on January 22, 1999, at which time the balance of SDR 1,152.95
(US$1,616.56 equivalent) for the IDA credit was cancelled. The OPEC Fund contributed US$2.0 million
to the project.
The ICR was prepared by Noel Carrere, Team Leader, AFTU2, John Powers (Consultant), Tej
Phool (Consultant), and reviewed at a meeting on April 26, 1999, chaired by MsLetitia A. Obeng, Sector
Manager for Water and Urban 2 Division. The beneficiary and implementing agency, GAMWORKS,
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by commenting on the Bank's draft and preparing an evaluation
and impact assessment of the investment component. A summary of their findings is attached as
Appendix B. A copy of the draft ICR was also sent to OPEC Fund and no comments were received.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, led by Mr.
Noel Carrere. The ICR is based on material in the project files and on information provided by
GAMWORKS.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(CR. 2554-GM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Gambia has undergone rapid and uncontrolled urban growth in the last 20 years,
resulting in very high levels of urban concentration. In 1960, only 12% of the total population
lived in urban areas, while today, over 50% of the 1.3 million Gambians now live in urban
centers. Rapid urbanization has largely been the result of the combined effect of successive
years of drought, and poor productivity in traditional agriculture and pastoral production. The
overwhelming share of the urban population is concentrated in the Greater Banjul Area (GBA),
comprising the two main municipalities of Banjul City Council (BCC) and Kanifing Municipal
Council (KMC). The GBA accounts for well over a third of the total population and is growing
at 8% per annum, while the overall population is growing at just over 4% per annum. These
rapidly changing levels of urban concentration have further eroded the ability of the cities to
provide a level of investment in infrastructure and urban services (not to mention employment
opportunities for low-skilled rural migrants) that is adequate in coping with dramatically
increased demand for services and infrastructure investment. Therefore, in order to create urban
employment, deliver much needed financing for infrastructure and civil works, and develop
private sector capacity in the local construction industry, the AGETIP approach was adopted.
This program was designed to finance small-scale basic civil works projects, identified by local
beneficiaries and implemented under a delegated contract management system through a local
non-governmental organization to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) utilizing labor-
intensive methods and technologies.
Project Objectives
2.    The main project objectives were to: (i) build local capacity (through private sector
development and public sector reform); (ii) assist the Government in maintaining infrastructure
assets; and (iii) participate in reducing current unemployment by creating temporary jobs in the
public works and construction sectors. The development objectives were to: (i) demonstrate the
feasibility of labor-intensive construction practices; (ii) test the procedures that would enable the
public sector to commission such projects through a delegated contract management system; (iii)
improve the skills and competitiveness of firms in the construction sector; and (iv) alleviate
poverty through employment generating effects of the investments made.
3.    To realize these objectives, the project financed: (i) a labor-intensive sub-projects
program involving the construction or rehabilitation of basic infrastructure in urban areas,



including roads and waste collection; (ii) training and technical assistance for local contracting
and engineering/design firms, as well as municipalities; and (iii) technical studies in construction
sector development and maintenance strategies, and design of a new procurement code. These
components were to be implemented by an autonomous agency with the legal status of an NGO
called the Gambian Agency for the Management of Public Works, or GAMWORKS.
4.    The project objectives were realistic. Project design took into account the experience of
previous AGETIP projects in the sub-region. This was noticeable in the area of technical
assistance and training, where the Agency relied extensively on local consulting firms and
training institutes, such as the Gambia Technical Training Institute (GTTI) or the Management
Development Institute (MDI). This constituted an applied lesson from previous AGETIP
experience in Senegal and Mauritania. The three main risks identified during appraisal were: (i)
the volume of employment created might fall short of expectations or be an insignificant
palliative compared to the present urban unemployment situation; (ii) the Agency may misuse its
considerable independence; and (iii) local contractors and consulting firms may lack the capacity
required to implement the project on time. None of these risks materialized. Though time and
cost overruns by local contractors and consulting firms continue to be a problem (and will be
discussed later in this ICR) they did not adversely affect the project's implementation goals
relative to commitment and disbursement of the IDA credit.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.   Achievement of the main project objectives was partially successful. The impact on local
capacity building was substantial. By the close of the project, the Agency had signed over 310
contracts with engineering/design firms and with contracting firms in the local construction
sector, far surpassing the appraisal targets. However, the voluntary nature of participation in
training and technical assistance programs for local firms has led to a casual concern for their
importance among certain firms on the Agency's roster. Innovative methods, such as linking
eligibility for future bidding on contracts to proof of having participated in a given training
module, need to be considered to improve the impact of training packages for SMEs. Though
successful in meeting targets, these efforts needed to be better integrated with the investment
component of the project, and with the consultants' and contractors' procurement services by the
Agency. Training and technical assistance activities for public sector managers and participants
in community sensitization programs were well designed and widely attended, leading to
improvements in sub-project identification, appraisal, and a general understanding of the
Agency's mandate and select:ion criteria.
6.    The impact on maintenance efforts on infrastructure assets was negligible. The project's
efforts in this area were concentrated in two areas. First was the commissioning of a technical
study to determine ways of improving the capacity and efficiency of the Ministry of Works and
Communications in the management and maintenance of the road network and public buildings
assets, and the design of an action plan to implement the policy. Though policy statements on
the technical study have been issued by the Office of the President, no formal policy action has
been taken to date. Second, was an attempt to get the municipal and area councils to adopt and
implement maintenance arrangements associated with, but not limited to, the sub-projects for
which they were beneficiaries. Though stipulated in the Agency's Manual of Procedures that a
beneficiary must be able to ensure upkeep of works completed so as to be eligible for future sub-



-iv-
projects, this became close to impossible to implement. It was thought that the exclusion of
important local government areas (LGAs), such as BCC or KMC, on the basis of not
implementing a maintenance scheme for a given sub-project, would seriously damage other
worthwhile goals of the project, particularly employment creation.   Municipal financial
strengthening, as it relates to operations and maintenance of new and existing infrastructure, is a
key element of the follow-up project to the PWCB Project.
7.     The impact on employment was substantial.  The project sought to invest US$11.1
million into civil works contracts, creating some 1,042 person-years, or 12,500 person-months of
employment over a three-year period.' At the time of closing, June 30, 1998, the project had
invested US$11.6 million on civil works projects.2 Approximately US$2.2 million had been
spent on wages, creating some 31,475 person-months of direct employment. Calculating the
direct labor inputs to overall capital cost of the works contracted, the project yielded a labor ratio
of 21.35%, slightly higher than the performance target at appraisal. Difficult to track is the
indirect employment effect generated through purchasing of inputs and sub-contracting
opportunities to other firms along the supply chain in the execution of a works contract. Though
this data is not collected systematically, anecdotal evidence suggests the indirect employment
effect is between 1.5-2 times the direct employment created by financing labor-intensive sub-
proj ects.
8.     The impact on physical infrastructure was substantial. By project closing, the Agency
had signed 139 conventions with beneficiaries for sub-projects in seven different municipal/area
councils, for a total of US$11.6 million. Well over 90% of that had been disbursed by the close
of the project. The total amount invested in sub-projects was higher than estimated at appraisal
by approximately 16%. This was due in large part to the US$2 million in co-financing obtained
through the OPEC Development Fund. The highest concentration of investments was in the
education sector (38% of investments) involving simple construction or rehabilitation of
educational facilities, including classrooms, equipping schools with new desks, benches, and
toilets. Environmental sub-projects (13%) generally financed the construction of key sanitary
facilities, including drainage projects in low-lying areas, as well as clearing garbage from
residential communities and roadsides. Road improvements (4%), though comparatively small
with respect to total investments, often had a visible impact through improved traffic circulation
and safety for motorists and pedestrians alike, as well as a noticeable spurt in roadside
commercial activity.
9.     The development objectives were all successfully achieved.   The project clearly
demonstrated the feasibility of labor-intensive sub-projects, and successfully demonstrated the
1 For reasons not mentioned in the SAR, the yearly targets for employment creation in the PWCB Project were, in
years 2 and 3, a third lower than in other first generation AGETIP type projects in the sub-region, such as in
Mauritania and Mali, which themselves, were four-year projects. Though speculative, reasons for this might include
the small size of the country and the absorptive capacity of the municipal and area councils in providing counterpart
financing, or concerns about the technical and managerial competency of contracting and consulting firms in being
able to complete sub-projects in accordance with the Agency's procedures.
2 The exchange rate used in this report is D 9.65 to the dollar. It is an average exchange rate covering the project
period, calculated by dividing the total amount of Dalasis disbursed under the IDA credit from the Agency's records,
by the equivalent dollar amount taken from World Bank records.



usefulness of delegated contract management procedures. The alleviation of poverty through the
creation of employment, the third development objective, was an important area of impact for the
project. The direct employment effect of the PWCB Project was substantially higher than
estimated at appraisal. It is important that data collection efforts with respect to labor statistics
and pricing be more refined and systematized. Finally, improvements to workers skills and
competitiveness of firms were successfully achieved, notwithstanding the adjustments that need
to be made to the design and delivery of training and technical assistance packages.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   On balance, the project achieved most of its objectives. It had a positive impact on urban
employment, physical infrastructure, and workforce training in the local construction sector. The
project validated the procedures of delegated contract management and illustrated the feasibility
of labor-intensive sub-projects. Maintenance issues remain a concern, both at the level of central
government policy and at the level of municipal government. Both the Government and the
Agency have been slow to translate into operational terms, the link between municipal
strengthening and the sustainability of infrastructure investment.  Bank performance was
satisfactory. The Agency performed well overall, but needs to focus on raising the quality of
training, technical assistance, and on-site supervision efforts to ensure that it can deliver quality
results. It also needs to reduce its operating cost ratio in preparation for functioning
competitively on a fee-for-service basis.
11.   Sustainability of the system of delegated contract management is uncertain. It exists only
insofar as the Agency itself exists.  The delegated contract management system  is also
sustainable if the Agency can be relied upon to deliver a quality finished product. The
sustainability of the sub-projects is linked to (i) the ability of the Agency to deliver continued
improvements to the skills and competitiveness of contracting and consulting firms; and (ii)
institutional reforms geared toward strengthening managerial and financial capacity of the
municipal and area councils that would allow the councils to shoulder the responsibility for
operations and maintenance when commissioning a sub-project.  The follow-up Poverty
Alleviation and Capacity Building (PACB) Project, approved in March 1999, aims to develop
the link between sustainability of municipal investments and local government capacity. This
will be accomplished through bringing improvements to local resource mobilization efforts by
helping the councils design Revenue Improvement Action Plans (RIAPs), along with property
revaluation and updating of the real estate tax rolls, so as to enhance the own-source revenue
base of the councils. The project also intends to require that councils set up and manage
operations and maintenance funds (O&M Funds), which the IDA credit will help build up, on a
declining basis as local resource mobilization improves.
12. Key Lessons
* The quality of construction and construction-related services needs to be a priority,
since it impacts the sustainability of both sub-projects and SMEs.  The Agency's
Technical Department must strive to improve both the content and the incentives for
participating in new training workshops for consulting and contracting firms.  The
sustainability of sub-projects, and the survival of many new SMEs created during the course
of project implementation, hinge on delivery of quality works and services.



-vi-
*  Improving the systematic collection of labor and income-related data on SMEs. It is
important to develop a more complete understanding of the employment and income-
generating effects of AGETIP-style interventions in the local construction sector in not only
The Gambia, but also in other countries of the sub-region. Data collection strategies should
seek to uncover the extent of indirect employment being created, the "coming and going"
nature of unskilled labor, as well as whether firtns are growing in size and profitability
(vertical growth), or if the sector is growing through the rapid proliferation of small firms
(horizontal growth) with limited technical capacity, and growing dependence on
GAMWORKS, or a similar implementing agency.
*  Strengthening of municipal capacities as a key to ensuring sub-project sustainability.
Both the Government and the Agency need to recognize that sub-projects will not be
sustainable in the long term if local governments (the primary source of demand for the
Agency) falter in the development of technical and managerial capacity, as well as in
resource mobilization through improved tax collection.
*  The Agency needs to develop a vision for its role in a fee-for-service environment. The
Agency needs to recognize that its survival depends on producing quality results while
keeping costs low. It should begin to look toward the municipal/area councils, with a view to
developing a true client relationship based on the on-time delivery of a quality finished
product. The World Bank should state clearly that the Agency's operating cost will be
financed on a declining basis, as the Agency prepares itself for the move toward a fee-for-
service system.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Cr. 2554-GM
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
I.   The Gambia has undergone rapid and uncontrolled urban growth in the last 20
years, resulting in very high levels of urban concentration. In 1960, only 12% of the total
population lived in urban areas, while today, over 50% of the 1.3 million Gambians live
in such areas. Rapid urbanization has largely been the result of the combined effect of
successive years of drought, and poor productivity in traditional agriculture and pastoral
production. The overwhelming share of the urban population is concentrated in the
Greater Banjul Area (GBA), comprising the two main municipalities of Banjul City
Council (BCC) and Kanifing Municipal Council (KMC). The GBA accounts for well
over a third of the total population (two thirds of the urban population) and is growing at
8% per annum, while the overall population is growing at just over 4% per annum. Some
secondary towns, such as Brikama Area Council (BAC) are growing faster than the GBA.
These rapidly changing levels of urban concentration have further eroded the ability of
cities to maintain a level of investment in infrastructure and urban services (not to
mention employment opportunities for low-skilled rural migrants) adequate in coping
with dramatically increased demand for services and infrastructure. The employment
picture in the GBA and other urban centers is rather distorted. Formal employment in the
public and private sectors is highly concentrated in the GBA, but covers only 10% of the
total labor force. Recent data suggests the informal sector is successful at meeting the
present demand from new job seekers, of which the majority are migrants from rural
areas.
2.   The AGETIP approach was adopted in order to support the Government's priorities
in poverty alleviation and provision of basic infrastructure and services in urban centers
burdened by high growth rates and unemployment, and dispose of inadequate resources
and capacity to expand infrastructure and deliver services as needed. Initiated in Senegal
and tested in other sub-region countries, this approach involves financing a public works,
rehabilitation, and services program implemented through labor-intensive methods and
administered by an autonomous organization. This program was to deliver improvements
in the capacity of local consulting and contracting firms in the construction sector, create
or rehabilitate basic infrastructure through labor-intensive methods, and thereby
generating urban employment, if only in the short-term.



-2-
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
Al.   Project Objectives
3.   The primary project objectives, as summarized in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
were to: (i) build local capacity (through private sector development and public sector
reform); (ii) assist the Government in maintaining infrastructure assets; and (iii)
participate in reducing current unemployment by creating temporary jobs in the public
works and construction sectors. The development objectives were to: (i) demonstrate the
feasibility of labor-intensive construction practices and projects; (ii) test operational
procedures for the public sector to commission such projects through a delegated contract
management system; (iii) improve, through the implementation of works financed by the
project, the skills and cormpetitiveness of firmns in the construction sector so as to enhance
their ability to respond to opportunities in the sector after project completion; and, (iv)
alleviate poverty through the creation of urban employment opportunities, and by
focusing on rehabilitation and/or maintenance of infrastructure.
4.   The AGETIP model has proven successful in providing a highly visible and low-
cost method for the execution of public works and services projects. It was further
established that this approach obviates the need to create additional jobs in the public
sector to carry out public works activities, and it makes effective, transparent, efficient,
and flexible procedures for the appraisal of sub-projects, as well as for procurement and
disbursement.  Finally, support is provided to contractors and consultants in the
construction sector through the provision of training commissioned by the Agency.
5.   To realize these objectives, the project financed:
-  A program  of labor-intensive sub-projects of two main types; (i) public works,
primarily routine maintenance of roads, rehabilitation of drainage networks and urban
facilities, such as health centers, schools, and other public buildings; and (ii) public
services, particularly cleaning deprived urban areas and testing private management
practices for solid waste collection;
*  Training and technical assistance for local contracting and engineering/design firms
in technical and managerial aspects of bidding and executing works contracts; a
training program for municipal authorities in prioritizing and evaluating sub-project
feasibility and soundness; and technical assistance at the municipal level to increase
local participation in sub-project identification and infrastructure maintenance;
*  Technical studies to assist the Ministry of Works and Communications (MWC) in
designing an Infrastructure Maintenance Policy, particularly with respect to the road
network; a construction industry development study for preparation of an action plan
to improve the efficiency of the domestic construction sector; and phase two of a
public procurement reform study designed to develop an action plan to implement
such reforms;
* Goods and equipment for the implementing agency, its operating fees, and other
related project management activities.



-3-
6.   These components of the project were to be implemented by an autonomous
agency with the legal status of an NGO called, the Gambian Agency for the Management
of Public Works, or GAMWORKS (referred to hereafter as "the Agency"). The
Agency's operations were not limited to specific urban centers at the outset of the project
for reasons of: (i) the small size of the country; (ii) the need of the Agency to attain a
certain scale in its activities sufficient to meet key targets with respect to its operating
cost ratio; (iii) the growth rate in certain urban centers, such as Farafenni and Brikama,
that outstrip the already high rate of the GBA, and therefore, generating a response to an
urgent need for basic infrastructure creation and rehabilitation in such urban areas.
7.   The total cost of the project estimated at appraisal was the equivalent of US$12.5
million, and the final estimate of total project costs was US$13.75 million. The IDA
credit, approved in FY 94, was for the equivalent of US$11 million. The project's
closing date was extended a year and a half due to a 1'0-month delay in project
effectiveness, resulting from a military coup in June 1994, two months after the signing
of the credit, as well as securing US$2 million in co-financing from the OPEC
Development Fund.
A2.   Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
8.   The project objectives were clear and realistic. Project design took into account the
experience of previous AGETIP projects in the sub-region. For example, training and
technical assistance activities undertaken in this project were, in a similar fashion to the
works and services operations, contracted to consulting firms. This reliance on local
consulting firms and training institutes, such as the Gambia Technical Training Institute
(GTTI) or the Management Development Institute (MDI), was based on experience from
the AGETIP in Mauritania.
Box 1:  Learning from  the AGETIP experience - training and technical assistance:
AMEXTIPE, the executing agency in Nouakchott, proved ill-prepared to shoulder th
responsibility for both delegated contract management for works, services, and studies on the on
hand, and for organizing and implementing technical assistance and training modules fo
ontractors, engineering/design firms, and municipalities on the other. For the PWCB, it was
decided that the Agency would conduct a survey to determine the precise needs of contractors and
consulting firms in the construction sector.  Specific modules - in the areas of business
administration, basic financial management techniques, work organization - were then designed,
taking the survey results into account. Responsibility for executing these training and technica
assistance packages were then left to specialized local training institutes and firms.
9.   The project correctly  emphasized  poverty  alleviation  through  employment
generation, by financing labor-intensive sub-projects designed to rehabilitate or create
basic infrastructure in urban areas. The project also set very clear maintenance standards
for the works contracted by the beneficiaries (often municipal governments) for which
there was inadequate follow through on the part of these beneficiaries. Insufficient
planning and deployment of scarce resources were not in place at the municipal level to
ensure compliance with maintenance requirements.



-4-
10. Three main risks were identified during appraisal: (i) the volume of employment
created may fall short of expectations or be an insignificant palliative compared to the
prevailing urban unemployment situation; (ii) the Agency may misuse its considerable
independence; and (iii) local contractors and consulting firms may lack the capacity
required to implement the project on time. None of these risks materialized. The project
created far more employment than anticipated. The Agency executed its mandate
according to its Manual of Procedures, and responded to the recommendations of the
studies commissioned for the various components of the project, as well as to
recommendations of independent auditors and IDA supervision missions. Though time
and cost overruns by local contractors and consulting firms were a problem, they did not
adversely affect the project's implementation goals relative to commitment and
disbursement of the IDA credit. A further risk of the Agency's survival after project
completion was not identified. The Agency's survival is dependent on: (i) its ability to
cover its own costs over time, (ii) its ability to deliver a quality product on time and
within budget; and finally (iii) the legal basis for which delegated contract management
can continue to exist in the country. These issues will be discussed in greater detail in
Sections D, H, and I.
B.  Achievement of Objectives
1 1. Effective achievement of project objectives may be measured by an evaluation of
local capacity building and reform efforts in the public and private sectors; by assessing
the impact of maintenance efforts on infrastructure assets and by measuring urban
employment creation. The development objectives may be measured by assessing (i) the
benefits of labor-intensive sub-projects; (ii) the impact on employment creation; (iii) the
extent to which the delegated contract management procedures used under this project are
viable for the implementation of the public sector works projects; and (iv) the impact on
workers' skills and the competitiveness of firms in the construction sector. The full set of
performance indicators, as set out in the SAR are given in Table 5. Achievement of the
project objectives was partially successful, while the development objectives were
successfully achieved.
B1. Achievement of Project Objectives
Assessment of local capacity building efforts
12. Achievement of this objective was substantial. This component targeted three sets
of stakeholders in the project: domestic contractors and consultants; beneficiaries of sub-
projects - primarily local government authorities involved in submitting sub-project
proposals to the Agency; and community-level actors, such as neighborhood associations,
NGOs, and religious organizations.
13.  The training and technical assistance sub-component for private sector firms and
workers was successfully implemented, with all SAR targets surpassed by a substantial
margin.  Improvements to workers skills and the competitiveness of firms was
successfully achieved (paragraphs 12-14). By September 1998, the Agency had signed
over 290 contracts with consulting/design firns, and over 160 with contracting firms.



-5-
The Agency's roster of consulting/design firms has grown over 5 times, from 17 firms at
the beginning of the project, to over 110 today. Similarly, the Agency's roster of
consulting firms has expanded almost 4 times, from 57 at the beginning of the project to
over 280 today. The numbers for firms having won at least one contract are modest, 36
for consulting/design firms and 65 for contracting firms; however, they constitute
important achievements in a construction industry that, until a few years ago, was
dominated by a few large and fairly capital intensive Senegalese firms.
14.  It is important to consider the long term impact associated with capacity building
efforts of this kind, and the mainly qualitative nature of progress to be assessed in this
area. First, it must be recognized that the voluntary nature of participation in these
training programs led to a relatively casual concern for their importance, particularly
among firms which had already won contracts through the Agency. The Agency should
consider a range of options with respect to improving its training activities. Among these
would be: (i) requiring remedial training for firms that have delivered poor quality work,
before they can be eligible for another contract with the Agency; (ii) a revision to the
ranking system of bids that would include a higher rating for firms which have undergone
a specific training module; and (iii) the promotion (also possible through higher ranking)
of joint ventures, or teaming up of more and less experienced firms to foster inter-firm
learning.  Though successful in meeting targets, these efforts needed to be better
integrated with the investment component of the project, and with the consultants' and
contractors' procurement services by the Agency.
Box 2: An unexpected effect of producing a measure of organization in the local private
sector: the creation of industry associations in the construction sector:   It  is  worth
noting however, that the dialogue generated between contractors, consultants and the Agency
as a result of project implementation, contributed in a direct manner to the formation of two
new industry associations, the Gambian Association of Contractors (GACON), and the
Gambian Association of Consultants (GACONS) in October 1997. These two associations
will be able to serve not only a liaison function between them, but collectively would be
capable of ensuring quality control measures, and of providing a much needed network where
more experienced firms could serve as facilitators to less experienced ones in a continual
exchange process. This will help foster the enabling environment for the often discussed
bidding partnerships, between firms of different categories on the Agency's roster, to provide
concrete positive externalities for less experienced firms.
15.  Training and technical assistance for public sector managers emphasized many
procedures of the PWCB Project, such as eligibility criteria used by the Agency for
selecting sub-projects, how sub-projects are classified and ranked, as well as basic
techniques for sub-project appraisal that could be used for longer range investment
planning by municipal authorities. A comprehensive training module was carried out,
and widely attended on nine occasions in all of the administrative districts of the country.
Problems of continuity within the municipal and area councils (e.g. promotions, transfers,
terminations, etc.) make a case for follow-up actions of this type of training, so as to
continue to build a pool of trained managers in local government institutions. Despite
personnel training at local government level, many of their initiatives continue to be
hampered by revenue shortfalls in the face of increased responsibilities in areas such as



-6-
street networks maintenance and solid waste collection, shifted onto them by central
government.
16. A total of 38 training sessions were conducted for various community management
structures, the third target group of the capacity building component, and a further 13 for
personnel of the municipal and area councils. The media sensitization campaign - to
build awareness of project activities around the country - was well thought-out and
implemented, strategically utilizing effective channels of communication ranging from
television and radio to billboards and small drama. As a consequence, it improved
substantially the demand for sub-project financing by municipalities. As effective as
some communication efforts were in the community sensitization process, problems still
persist. For instance, when the municipal or area councils were the beneficiaries of a
sub-project, it was often reported that other community actors, involved in the sub-project
identification process, were unable to ascertain whether counterpart contributions had
actually been paid.
Impact of maintenance efforts on infrastructure assets
17. Achievement of this objective was negligible. Two distinct, yet somewhat related,
efforts were undertaken here. The first being nominally more successful than the second.
18. The first was the commissioning of a technical study to determine ways to improve
the capacity and efficiency of the Ministry of Works and Communications in the
management and maintenance of the road network and public buildings assets, and to
design an action plan to implement the maintenance policy. It should be noted that: (i)
the 1994 coup brought about dismissals in certain key ministry personnel; and (ii)
govemment policies were either not defined, or in a state of flux. Some two years after
the tendering process was initiated for the study, the Policy Analysis Unit of the Office of
the President submitted its policy statement for consideration to the Government. To date
however, no formal policy has been formulated.
19.  The second effort was, on all accounts, a loose attempt to get the municipal and
area councils to adopt and implement maintenance arrangements associated with, but not
limited to, the sub-projects for which they were beneficiaries. And indeed, it is stated in
chapter I, Section Ic of the Agency's Manual of Procedures that, in addition to being able
to make the mandatory counterpart contribution to sub-project financing, the
beneficiaries must also "ensure upkeep of works once completed, and maintain any
equipment installed." It should be noted that maintenance at the sub-project level was
not dealt with in a systematic way in terms of project design. During implementation, it
became clear that neither the Agency, nor IDA disposed, in the context of the project's
mechanisms, of either a mandate or a comparative advantage in undertaking the
necessary municipal financial strengthening required to adequately address maintenance
concerns. It was thought that, given the concentration of demand for sub-projects in the
GBA and the absorptive capacity of counterpart funding, the exclusion of certain
municipal councils (such as BCC, KMC, or even Brikama Area Council) for future
eligibility on the basis of not implementing a maintenance scheme for a given sub-project
would seriously damage other worthwhile project goals, particularly employment
creation.  Thus, municipal financial strengthening, as it relates to operations and



-7-
maintenance of new and existing infrastructure, was identified as a key element to figure
in a follow-up project to the PWCB.
Impact on employment
20.  Achievement of this objective was substantial.  The project sought to invest
US$11.1 million into civil works contracts, creating some 1,042 person-years, or 12,500
person-months of employment over a three years.3 At the time of closing, June 30, 1998,
the project had invested US$11.6 million in civil works projects.4   Approximately
US$2.2 million had been spent on wages, creating some 31,475 person-months of direct
employment. Calculating the direct labor inputs to overall capital cost of the works
contracted, the project yielded a labor ratio of 21.35%, slightly higher than the
performance target at appraisal.
21.  The indirect effect on employment, generated through purchasing of inputs and the
sub-contracting opportunities to other firms along the supply chain in the execution of a
works contract is difficult to track. Experience of other AGETIP projects in neighboring
countries suggests the indirect employment effect is between 1.5-2 times the direct
employment created by financing labor-intensive sub-projects. The Agency does not
collect data on indirect employment in a systematic manner. Improvements in this area
are important to further develop the understanding of income generation - and therefore,
poverty alleviation - effects of making these investments.
Impact on physical infrastructure
22.  The project's impact on the delivery of civil works, infrastructure and public
facilities or improved service was substantial. At the time of closing, 139 conventions
with beneficiaries for sub-projects in seven different municipal/area councils had been
signed under the project for a total of US$11.6 million. As mentioned above, well over
90% of this amount had been disbursed by the close of project. The total amount
invested in sub-projects was higher than estimated at appraisal by approximately 16%.
This was due in large part to the US$2 million of co-financing obtained through the
OPEC Development Fund.
23.  The highest concentration of investments was in the education sector, as seen in
Table  1 below.   The majority  of these works involved  simple construction  or
rehabilitation of educational facilities including classrooms, equipping schools with new
3 For reasons not mentioned in the SAR, the yearly targets for employment creation in the PWCB Project
were, in years 2 and 3, a third lower than in other first generation AGETIP type projects in the sub-region,
such as in Mauritania and Mali, which themselves, were four year projects. Though speculative, reasons
for this might include the small size of the country and the absorptive capacity of the municipal and area
councils in providing counterpart financing, or concems about the technical and managerial competency of
contracting and consulting firms in being able to complete sub-projects in accordance with the Agency's
procedures.
4 The exchange rate used in this report is D 9.65 to the dollar. It is an average exchange rate covering the
project period, calculated by dividing the total amount of dalasis disbursed under the IDA credit from the
Agency's records, by the equivalent dollar amount taken from World Bank records.



-8-
desks, benches, or toilets, therefore, delivering a substantial improvement to the
conditions under which children are taught. Sub-projects classified in the environment
sector (13%) generally financed the construction of key sanitary facilities, including
drainage projects in low-lying areas, as well as the clearing of garbage from residential
communities and roadsides.  The relatively high proportion of investment into the
construction or rehabilitation of markets, though a positive trend because of the revenue-
generating nature of these sub-projects, were noted to have some problems at the design
level in cases such as the new market in KMC. This led to monthly rents for individual
market stalls in excess of the financial capacity of end-users. Road improvements (4%),
though comparatively small with respect to total investments, often had a visible impact
through improved traffic circalation and safety for motorists and pedestrians alike, as
well as a noticeable spurt in roadside commercial activity.
24. The geographic concentration of sub-projects was overwhelmingly within the
GBA, with just over 81% of investments in civil works concentrated in Banjul City
Council and Kanifing Municipal Council (85% if Brikama Area Council is included). As
one might expect, this led to an equally high level of concentration in terms of
employment created, with 83% of all direct employment generated by the project's
investments in the GBA.
Table 1: Distribution of Investments
Distribution of Total Investments    Distribution of Sub-projects by financier
Agriculture Admin. Car parks
1%   Bldgs.  1 %
1%  other                    Education       68       30
Roads  5%                      Environment     10       13
Health 4N°>  E:ducation           Markets        10       16
8%              Education   [   Security         8        10
Public rec.                          Public rec.     0        7
5%     _: K                        Health          2       10
Security            l                 K Roads      2        5
9%     9  | glt                   Car parks       0        1
Markets    Envmnl:.            Admin. Bldgs.    0       1
16%       13%                 Agriculture     0        1
Other           0        6
TOTAL:         100      100
B2. Achievement of Develolpment Objectives
25.  The development objectives of the project were all successfully achieved. The
project effectively demonstrated the first objective of putting in place a cost-effective
method of delivering civil works and making an immediate impact on urban
unemployment. The feasibility of this approach has generated much enthusiasm among
the beneficiaries at the community and local government levels, within the construction
sector and even in the central government, who asked IDA management for a follow-up
project.



-9-
26. Poverty alleviation through employment creation, the second development
objective, was an important area of impact for the project. The direct employment effect
of the PWCB Project was substantially higher than estimated at appraisal, as discussed
above. Data collection efforts with respect to labor statistics and pricing must be refined
and systematized. For instance, more reliable data on average salaries, the ratio of low-
skilled wages to total salaries paid (which the Agency ceased to report on) are needed to
assess the income effect. Long-term improvements in this area are also a function of the
profitability of firms and whether over time, long-term employment is being created.
Consequently, more reliable information on the prices of key inputs, materials, and other
items such as transportation costs are essential for appropriate pricing of works contracts,
so that firms are more realistic when formulating their bids, and do not end up operating
at a loss in the execution of works contracts.
27.  The testing of delegated contract management procedures used under the project
were also successfully achieved. The Agency faithfully managed the works and services
contracts on behalf of beneficiaries according to its Manual of Procedures.  The
adjustments or improvements that needed to be made to the Agency's procurement
procedures, as well as its management of training and technical assistance activities, were
done efficiently.
28.  Improvements to workers' skills and the competitiveness of firms was successfully
achieved (paras 12-14). The project has created a boom in competition among local
small- and medium-sized firms. Anecdotal evidence from the studies commissioned on
the capacity building component suggests that even contractors who had not yet won a
contract through the Agency had been able to capitalize on the experience gained in other
ways, either by winning contracts outside of the Agency, or by re-organizing their work
and/or management practices more efficiently.
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project
29. The Government supported the project and did not undermine the Agency's
autonomy. The confidence it has expressed in the delegated contract management system
has translated into increased reliance on the Agency in other related operations through
various ministries.  Institutional reforms in municipal strengthening are crucial for
success in the maintenance of sub-projects at the local government level. GAMWORKS,
having performed in an efficient and cost-effective manner in delivering small civil
works, still faces challenges in raising the quality of sub-projects, and reducing its
operating costs.
30.  Factors subject to government control. Despite important changes to the overall
political situation in the country, due to the 1994 coup that contributed to the replacement
of certain key government officials and an approximately 10-month delay in the
effectiveness date of the IDA credit, Government supported the project and did not
interfere with the Agency's day-to-day operations. The Government's support and
commitment has provided were major reasons behind the success of the PWCB Project.
Expressing confidence in the Gamworks' delivery system, other ministries are currently



-10-
relying on the Agency to manage the infrastructure-related components of some of their
planned projects - particularly in the health and education sectors.
31. Some problems,.however, need to be mentioned. First is the issue of maintenance
of new  and existing infrastructure.  Though the beneficiary institution, often the
municipal and area councils, commits to maintaining any new or rehabilitated facilities as
a part of the convention signed with the Agency, actual implementation of maintenance
arrangements becomes kind of an ad hoc practice. Sustained progress can only result
from measures geared toward municipal capacity building, investment planning, and
local resource mobilization.   It is now  an integral part of the  Government's
decentralization policy, which is still under preparation. Second is a 10% withholding tax
on all companies, instituted by governmental decree in 1996. This tax contributes to
substantial cash flow problems for the contractors, already burdened by the 10% retention
practice of the Agency - the latter being something with which most contractors have no
problem.
32. Factors subject to implementing agency control. It is clear that the Agency
performed well in delivering cost-effective civil works that generated higher than
expected employment opportunities. Selected cost comparisons of sub-projects from the
PWCB Project with those contracted independently of Gamworks generally show that
the latter cost more.  Through effective communication strategies and adherence to
transparent procedures, the Agency has generated much enthusiasm and confidence
within the Government, and the private sector. Furthermore, the Agency has worked to
ensure that no late payments to contractors occur, and maintains a very respectable rate of
payment within 10 days for 80% of all payments made to contractors, while 98% of
payments are made within 3 0 days.
33. The Agency is experiencing some problems. The issue of quality in the execution
of design/study, works and supervision contracts is one of them. Generally speaking,
quality problems have been a function of three factors. The first has been (i) inadequate
appraisal of sub-projects identified at the level of beneficiary institutions, and submitted
to the Agency for funding; (ii) inadequate reference pricing of these contracts by
consulting/design firms. These problems were particularly acute in the execution of the
1995 and 1996 portfolios; but progress has since been substantial, due in large part to
training and technical assistance packages implemented by the Agency. Also significant,
was the publication by the Technical Department of an updated reference guide to prices
of key materials and inputs.6 The second has been the inconsistency in technical skills
across firms, often within the same category. Again, training has made a difference, but
the Agency should consider how, in the future, it could more effectively encourage
collaboration among bidding firms, particularly from different roster categories and
5 This can be attributed, at least in part, to the policy of revealing the consultants' reference prices/unit
costs, which sometimes has the effect of placing a ceiling on the bids for works contracts through the
Agency.
6 Compiling and keeping this information up-to-date is something in which neithet3amworks, nor local
consulting firms truly have a co:mparative advantage. Ilainworks is to continue to devote resources to
keeping this information current and as accurate as possible, and available to consulting and contracting
firms, this is the type of service tie Agency should begin to offer for a fee.



-11-
technical competencies to maximize learning opportunities. Third is simply the practice
of taking shortcuts to avoid cost and/or time overruns. As an example, technical auditors
have found cases where contractors have failed to use spacers when doing slab concreting
of floors even when detailed designs called for them, and contractors were aware of the
technique. Though this is relatively infrequent, it does call for more rigorous works
supervision by on-site monitors technically qualified to be making adequate judgements.
34.  These problems have contributed significantly to overruns: where 25.4% of works
projects are completed on time, and 21% experience significant cost overruns
35. Another problem area is the Agency's operating costs which have run higher than
appraisal targets. It is important to keep in mind that the Agency was adversely impacted
by a 10-month delay in project effectiveness resulting from the 1994 coup. This explains
why the operating cost ratio of the Agency, stood at almost 25% at mid-term review in
April 1996. Since then, this ratio has been on a steady downward trend. By the end of
the project, the cumulated ratio stood at just over 13%, having risen in the last quarter due
to the payment of end-of-project benefits to Agency staff. Some of the most salient
factors contributing to higher than expected operating costs include long delays in the
execution of sub-projects by contractors, and the taking on of additional activities in the
infrastructure components of other World Bank-financed projects in the health sector
(and possibly in the education sector in the near future). These latter activities led to
increased administrative, transportation and logistical costs, but should over time, reduce
the operating cost ratio. Reducing operating costs to around 6% of cumulative activities
continues to be a target for the Agency. This target could be achieved more rapidly if the
Agency were to move to a fee-for-service system. Such a move would give the Agency
an incentive to expand the level of activity by focusing on the efficiency and quality of
results, and on increases in productivity.
D.  Project Sustainability
36.  This project, like other AGETIP projects, sought to put in place an institutional
delivery system that would provide the Government with an efficient and cost-effective
mechanism for commissioning small civil works. An assessment of sustainability, must
in this case, consider: (i) how viable the delegated contract management approach for
future government and donor operations in the country is; and (ii) the sustainability of the
works commissioned under the project. So far, the financial sustainability of AGETIP
projects has never either been considered or investigated. Therefore, the project in
question will not be subjected to such an assessment.  In considering financial
sustainability of AGETIP-style interventions in the country, the Agency will have to
organize itself for switching to a fee-for-service system. GAMWORKS must begin to
see its future as part of a public-private partnership with the beneficiaries of future
operations, the municipal and area councils, who constitute the Agency's primary source
of demand over the long term. The viability of this move will depend on institutional
reforms and financial and managerial strengthening at the local government level, as well
as on the Agency's ability to deliver an on-time quality product.
37.  Sustainability of delegated contract management. The sustainability of this
approach is uncertain. Gamworks has clearly demonstrated that it can be a capable



-12-
provider of civil works and training services through efficient and transparent procedures.
It has secured the confidence of both donors and Government, as witnessed by the
commitments under the new Poverty Alleviation and Capacity Building Project (1999).
Other sectoral ministries in the Government involved in other World Bank-financed
projects, such as the health sector, and possibly the education sector in the near future, are
relying on the Agency to implement the works/infrastructure components of these
operations. Finally, the Agency is also taking on responsibilities for infrastructure and
certain public facilities under the Government's National Poverty Alleviation
Programme. The sustained use of delegated contract management would appear to be
linked to two important factors.
38. First the delegated contract management exists only in so far as Gamworks exists,
legally. Delegated contract management, as a modus operandi within the government,
has no formal legal basis per se. Sustainability of this approach, therefore, should require
legislation on the part of Government specifying the modalities according to which
government institutions can contract out works (or delegate responsibility for contracting
of works) to private entities, and the responsibilities accruing to each party.
39.  The second factor impacting the sustainability of delegated contract management,
is the efficiency of the Agency itself However, Agency performance, particularly in a
fee-for-service environment, will be increasingly judged on the basis of the quality of
works and services it can deliver. As mentioned earlier, the project brought about an
important result through the capacity building and technical studies components that was
the creation of two industry associations for contractors and consultants, GACCON and
GACSUL. The Agency should do its part to ensure the Joint Liaison Group that these
two associations are currently creating, begins to define, in consultation with Government
and Gamworks, quality and performance standards across a range of works categories
and services. Despite noticeable results in improvements to skills and competitiveness of
firms, the quality of output still varies considerably among contracting firms. Options for
improving training and technical assistance activities were discussed in paragraphs 13
and 14.
40.  Sustainability of sub-projects.  The sustainability of sub-projects is most
uncertain. Since maintenance of infrastructure and facilities is the responsibility of the
entity commissioning the sub-projects - in this case, it is largely the municipal/area
councils - sustained progress in this area is closely linked to institutional reforms. The
project attempted to address maintenance concerns by fostering a community
participation process, and attempting to create a sense of ownership, through requiring
counterpart funding from beneficiaries. These are important components of building a
culture for maintenance at the local government/community level, but it is insufficient to
make it materialize. The project also sought to formalize a maintenance arrangement,
loosely defined, as part of the required beneficiary contribution to sub-project financing.
This latter initiative failed however, as it became clear that pursuing maintenance
objectives commensurate with the size of the works/investment component, would
require significantly greater financial resources and a comprehensive package of
assistance measures designed to strengthen local governments. Also, this would have to
be designed in such as way as to support the Government's decentralization policy
objectives.



-13-
Box 3: Maintenance and municipal strengthening efforts for the future
The Poverty Alleviation and Capacity Building Project (PACB), which is the follow-up project
to the PWCB, has a much stronger focus on building permanent capacity in local government
nstitutions. Local resource mobilization efforts will be pursued to enhance own-sourc
evenue of the municipal/area councils by the design and adoption of Revenue Improvemen
Action Plans (RIAPs), along with property revaluation and updating of the real estate tax rolls,
so as to improve collection from the property tax (one of the councils' most important sources
of revenue). However, there will be an inevitable lag, of approximately two years, between th
initiation of these efforts and the time they begin to generate tangible increases in the revenu
structure of the councils.  To establish a link between the sustainability of municipal
nvestments on the one hand, and financial and managerial programming on the other, the new
roject will require the municipal/area councils to set up and manage Operations &
Maintenance (O&M Funds) beginning in the latter half of the first year of the project. An
annual budgetary provision, equivalent to 4% of the cumulative capital cost incurred under th
nvestment component, is considered reasonable and adequate for ensuring proper maintenance.
The IDA credit will help finance the O&M Funds, on a declining scale, as local resourc
mobilization improves.
E.   Bank Performance
41. Bank performance was satisfactory. The project was identified and approved
within a year, with the Bank team utilizing much of the experience gained from other
AGETIP operations in neighboring countries such as Senegal, Mali, Mauritania, and
Niger for the design and preparation of the PWCB. At mid-term review, the average
period for processing replenishment requests of the Gamworks Special Account was over
35 days. By closing date, the cumulative average had been brought down to 25 days,
illustrating improvement but still higher than the sought after target. There were 9
supervision missions over the project period, often utilizing Bank staff and outside
experts familiar with AGETIP operations, not to mention actual staff from the technical
departments of the Senegal and Mauritania AGETIPs. The task team leader for the
project changed three times, but there were no significant problems with continuity or
coherence between the project's objectives and the implementation strategies.
F.   Borrower Performance
42.  Performance of the Government was satisfactory.  Despite the change in
government brought about by the 1994 coup, before the project even became effective,
the new government soon demonstrated strong support for the project. It did not interfere
with Agency operations, and has sought to delegate important components of its National
Poverty Alleviation Program to the Agency. There were no significant problems in the
mobilization of counterpart funds as far as the central government is concerned. The
preparation and appraisal process for the new Poverty Alleviation and Capacity Building
Project has afforded the Government, the Agency, as well as the World Bank with the
opportunity to develop an important dialogue on the link between the financing of
municipal investments, the need for their maintenance, and the need for strengthening the
financial and managerial capacity of the municipal/area councils.



-14-
43. Performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. As discussed in
previous sections of this report, the Agency worked to ensure an efficient and transparent
application of the procedures of delegated contract management. It achieved substantial
results in delivering civil works and facilities, and it performed well in supporting the
local private sector. The Agency, however, needs to make improvements in the selection
of sub-projects and the structuring of supervision and training activities to ensure the
quality of works. It also needs to continue focusing on reducing its operating costs.
G.  Assessment of Outcome
44. The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. Achievement of the project
objectives was successful, with the exception of the project's goals in assisting the
Govemment in maintenance of infrastructure assets. However, progress on the issue of
maintenance at the municipal level, has been made since the closing of the PWCB under
the preparation of the follow-up operation, as noted above. The project had a positive
impact in that it gave a much needed impetus to small- and medium-sized enterprises in
the local construction sector, not to mention giving it a measure of organization (as seen
through the formation of the industry associations) and policy attention through the
commissioned "construction sector development" study. As with the study relative to the
design of a maintenance action plan, no policy action has been taken by the Government
in this area. As mentioned earlier, the project exceeded expectations in creating urban
employment, and provided a positive visible impact in delivering substantial civil works
and improvements to the urban environment.
45.  The development objectives of the project were attained successfully with the
Agency demonstrating efficiency in delivering small civil works through labor-intensive
methods.   The procedures of delegated contract management were effectively
demonstrated as feasible for a country like The Gambia, and were perceived efficient and
fair by the local private sector, beneficiaries and central government. The improvement
of workers skills, and the conducting of effective on-site supervision, is an area where
progress remains to be made. The adoption of more applied, and innovative approaches
to training and technical assistance, many of which are discussed in previous sections of
this report, are essential to both sub-projects, as well as Agency sustainability.
46. The PWCB Project successfully extended the message of its mandate to
communities across much of the country. Independent consultant studies evaluating the
investment and capacity building components have pointed to strong community-level
enthusiasm for the project and its objectives, even though not every municipality has
directly benefited from the Agency's operations. The noticeable impact could be seen by
community residents and local government officials in a reduction in the amount of open
garbage along streets and in certain neighborhoods, increased commercial activity along
rehabilitated roads, as well as improved traffic flow and reduced accidents.
H.  Future Operation
47. The Poverty Alleviation and Capacity Building Project, approved by the Board on
March 16, 1999, takes into account many of the lessons leamed during implementation of



-15-
the PWCB Project , notably in municipal financial strengthening and maintenance of
municipal assets. Furthermore, it is anticipated that Gamworks will begin operating on a
fee-for-service basis toward the end of the new project's implementation period. The
project also aims to strengthen the Central Valuation Unit of the State Department for
Local Government and Lands which will play an important role in carrying out the
revaluation and mapping exercises, as well as maintenance of the updated real estate tax
rolls for the major urban centers of the country. This will be crucial to the project's
efforts to strengthen local government finances.
48.  The PWCB Project has done well to set up and test, with positive results, the
procedures and methods through which Government may commission small civil works
while registering important gains in fighting urban employment and strengthening the
local private sector. Understandably, GAMWORKS has been at the center of these
efforts. However, the Agency has been slow to visualize its role and its comparative
advantage in the context of the World Bank's future lending operations, which
necessarily must devote additional resources toward the strengthening of GAMWORKS'
future clients, the municipal and area councils.  Though always a sensitive issue,
Government has been equally slow to seize upon the positive results obtained in this first
operation to clarify and advance its own policy of decentralization and municipal
strengthening, so crucial for developing a viable system for the financing of municipal
investments.
1.   Key Lessons Learned
49. The approach used for this project was validated. The Agency demonstrated that it
could deliver cost-effective civil works through efficient and transparent delegated
contract management procedures, while generating substantial employment and receiving
no external technical assistance. A number of the key lessons learned from the PWCB
Project are summarized as follows:
*  Improving the quality of construction and construction-related services will be
an important challenge for the Agency's Technical Department, as the sustainability
of sub-projects, and the survival of many of the small and medium-size construction
firms created during the course of project implementation, hinge on the delivery of
quality works and services.  New training workshops in standard design and
supervision procedures for consultants need to be run.  Strengthening training
packages in general management, site management, and tender preparation will be
important for contractors. For firms which have exhibited repeated deficiencies in
quality, efforts need to be made to link their eligibility for bidding on future
Gamworks contracts with their having attended specific training modules.
*  Improving the systematic collection of labor and income-related data on SMEs
in the local private sector constitutes an important next step toward furthering the
assessment of the poverty alleviation effects of employment-generating interventions
in the public works sector. Data collection strategies should seek to shed light on the
extent of purchasing from suppliers, sub-contracting, profit margins, as well as to
track unskilled workers to ascertain the "coming and going" nature of employment



-16-
creation. Other investigations would also be worth undertaking, such as establishing
whether firms are experiencing: (i) vertical growth, where they hire new workers
based on increased profitability, itself a result of improved technical and managerial
capacity; or (ii) horizontal growth, where the sector is characterized by a rapid
proliferation of small firms with limited technical capacity which attempt to under-cut
each other in the hope of winning contracts from the Agency, on which a number of
firms are becoming increasingly reliant according to consultant studies.
Strengthening of municipal capacities as a key to ensuring sub-project
sustainability. Maintenance of infrastructure carried out today in the municipal/area
councils is done in a rather ad hoc manner. Municipal financial resources, including
transfers and own-source revenue, are often inadequate for pursuing maintenance
goals in any systematic manner. Both the Government and the Agency need to
recognize that commissioning sub-projects will struggle with sustainability as long as
local governments (the primary source of demand for the Agency) falter in the
development of technical and managerial capacity for long-term investment
programming, as well as in resource mobilization through improved tax collection.
The Agency needs to develop a vision for its role in providing a service that must
be paid for by any entity which plans to commission a civil works project. The
Agency must keep striving to reduce its operating cost ratio in the context of World
Bank financed operations, but also begin to look toward the municipal/area councils,
with a view to developing a true client relationship based on the on-time delivery of
quality products. The World Bank should clearly state that the Agency's operating
costs will be financedl, in the future, on a declining basis, as the Agency prepares
itself for the move toward a fee-for-service system.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Cr. 2554-GM
PART H. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial   Partial    Negligible  Not applicable
(i)         (V ()                    (6
Macro policies                     LEi C7I
Sector policies                    EI
Financial objectives               EI          LI           LI
Institutional development          ml                       L           LI
Physical objectives                EC EE                                El
Poverty reduction                 LI                        LI         EL
Gender issues                      LI          LI             I 
Other social objectives            Z           LI           LI vi]
Environmental objectives                       LI           LI          LI
Public sector management           LI          LI           L 
Private sector
development                                  D L   D
Other (capacity building)           I          LI 



-18-
B. Project sustainability       Likely            Unlikely        Uncertain
(1)               (1)               (1)
F]                  -I]            [7]
C. Bank performance             Highly
satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
(/)               (1)               (1)
Identification                   [                                   11
Preparation assistance             ]                [71               C
Appraisal                        K                  E:]
Supervision                        ]                [                 L
D. Borrower performance         Highly
satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
(~/)               (/)              (/)
Preparation                      E                 [                 EJ
Implementation                   r] l7                                   II
Covenant compliance
(counterpart funds)              D                  Ll
Operation (if applicable)        K]                                  K ]
E. Assessment of Outcome  Highly                                      Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
K])          W )             (K]          (K0
CZI           5-7            F-             FC



-19-
Table 2: Related Loans and Credits
Preceding operations
Second Highway         Expansion of maintenance and           1986        Closed 1992. The physical
Maintenance Project    rehabilitation of priority sections of paved        objectives were carried out
road network; strengthening of                     reasonably well with some delays.
organizational and managerial capacity of          Institution-building objectives
the MWC for improved maintenance of                were not successful due to the
road network, as well as for more efficient        Government's failure to
transport planning procedures.                     implement the reorganization plan
for the MWC.
Urban Management and   Designed to monitor the establishment of   1985     Closed in 1992. Successful in its
Development Project    municipal governments ensuring a clear              environmental objectives; but
legal framework for their operation; and           nominally successful in helping to
improve the environment linked to key              bring about a suitable legal
economic resources in tourism and                  framework with a clear
fisheries.                                         delineation of responsibilities for
local governments as
decentralization process had not
really been initiated.
Following operations
Poverty Alleviation and   Support sustainable provision of public  1999    Negotiations successfully
Capacity Building      infrastructure and services through                completed in February 1999,
Project                strengthening the technical, financial, and         approved by the Board on 16
managerial capacity of local authorities,          March 1999.
local private consultants and contractors,
as well Gamworks, the agency to whom
beneficiaries delegate management of
contracts; improve maintenance of new
and existing infrastructure assets; and
alleviate poverty through the creation of
temporary jobs.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project Summary)            N/A                          March 1993
Appraisal                                             N/A                        18-30 April 1993
Negotiations                                      October 1993                  21-24 October 1993
Board Presentation                                    N/A                        14 December 1993
Signing                                           January 1994                     11 May 1994
Effectiveness                                     February 1994                  14 November 1994
Mid-term Review                                       N/A                        22-29 April 1996
Project Closing                                 30 December 1996                   30 June 1998



-20-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
Original Appraisal Estimate          1.1            3.9            7.6            11.0           11.0
Actual                               0              1.6            4.0            8.7            10.7
Actual as % of original estimate     0%            41%             53%            79%            97%
Date of final disbursement
Disbursement: Cumulative
Estimated and Actual
12 
~A10A
0    8                                                        +  Appraisal
6                             m                             Estimate
- 4    >                                                          Acutal
D)   2   l,N>                l"
1994  1995.  1996S  199W7  1998P
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Cumulative amounts (US$ millions)                                  11.1                    11.6
No. of conventions                                                  90                     139
Number of contracts signed (design/supervision + works/services)    180                    443
No. of works contracts completed                                    170                    131
Percentage of works contracts completed on time                     90%                   31%
Percentage of contracts completed within budget                     90%                   81%
Percentage of payments to contractors within 30 days of invoice    100%          98% (80% of all payments
receipt                                                                               within 10 days)
Average time for processing contracts (working days)                20                      17
Percentage salaries/total costs                                     24%                    22%
Percentage low salaries/total salaries                              50%                    N/A
No. of man/months of employment created                            12,500                 31,475
Training/Assistance:
No. of beneficiaries                                                 40                    107
No. of firms                                                         60                    207
No. of trainee x days                                               300                    657
7 Amount of civil works + design and supervision as given in SAR, pg. 33, Table 7.
8 Time between bid opening and contract award.



-21-
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Inrstructure Mainteniance    Determine ways to improve the capacity and   Completed   Useful, though no
Management Study           efficiency of the MWC in management of the            policy action has
road network, public buildings, and their             been taken by the
maintenance; as well as elaborate an action           Governnent.
plan for implementation.
Construction Industry      Draft an action plan for expanding the number  Completed  Idem
Development Study          of qualified contractors for securing an
acceptable work force able to cope with
increased demand in the construction sector,
created by the PWCB Project.
Public Procurement Action    Continue the second phase of identifying  Completed   Idem
Plan Study                 current problems with Government
procurement practice, assessing future
forecasts of procurement activities, and draft
an outline procurement code
Table 7A: Project Costs
TA/training -1-Conununity  0.746 ~ ~ ~ ~~~I  sn=               111-1
1. Public works/services          6.43             7.45              6.74               8.93
2. Agency's equipment             0.20              0.20              0.19              0.34
3. Consulting services:.
Design/supervision;               1.13              1.13              0.55              1.17
TA/training +Community            0.746             0.746             0.613             0.687
participation;                    0.29              0.29              0.33              0.35
Sector studies                   0.41              0.41              0.27               0.31
4. Gamworks operating costs;      0.851             0.851             1.14              I.43Y'
Project monitoring/audit          0.347 (**)        0.347             0.283             0.283
5. Unallocated                                      0.475
6. PPF refinancing                0.6               0.60              0.60              0.60
TOTAL PROJECT COST               11.0              12.5              10.7              13.75
Undisbursed                                                           0.30              0.30
TOTAL                            11.0              12.5              11.0              14.4
Table 7B: Project Financing
US$ millions
IDA                                     11.0                          10.7
Governuent                               1.0                           1.0
Beneficiarics                            0.5                           0.7
Other donors                             2.0                          2.0
TOTAL                          14.5                         14.4
9 The increase of some $580,000 of Gamworks operating costs must be seen with respect to the extension of the
closing date of the project, and the parallel cofmancing received from the OPEC Development Fund.



-22-
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Section 3.01(b)(i)    4        C                 Borrower should make available counterpart  Complied
funds to cover costs of the project     with
Section 3.01 (b)(ii)  1        C                 Borrower shall open and maintain a project    Complied
account in Dalasi, in the name of Gamworks,  with
to be used exclusively by Gamworks
Section 3.01 (b)(iii)  4       C                 Borrower to deposit $80,000 equivalent into   Complied
Project Account; and counterpart        with
contributions on a quarterly basis
Section 3.03 (i)     10        C                 Borrower to carry out mid-term review of the  Postponed
project along with IDA and GAMWORKS     by more
than a year
due to delay
in effective-
ness
Section 3.03 (ii)    10        C                 Borrower shall carry out recommendations of  Complied
mid-term review                         with
Section 3.04 (a)      9        C                 GAMWORKS shall jointly carry out, with  Complied
IDA and the Borrower, an annual review  with
Section 3.05 (a)      5        C                 Position of director general, technical director, Complied
and financial manager to be filled by persons  with
acceptable to IDA
Section 3.05         10        C                 GAMWORKS shall prepare annual plan of    Figures
(c)(i&ii)                                        action in 4"' quarter of every year, and figures were
for annual work plans by 30 Sept. of each year adjusted due
to political
events
Section 3.06(i)(ii)   1        C                 GAMWORKS to commission technical and   Complied
management audits by independent auditors   with
acceptable to IDA
Section 3.07          1        C                 GAMWORKS to furnish to IDA a            Complied
consolidated report of audits at end of fiscal   with
year
Section 4.01 (a)(i)   1        C                 Borrower to maintain records and accounts    Complied
reflecting all expenditures on basis of  with
statement of expenditures and in accordance
with sound accounting practices
Section 4.01 (a)(ii)  1        C                 Borrower to hold all records of expenditures   Complied
up to 1 year after IDA receives annual audit   with
Section 4.01 (b)(i)   1        C                 Borrower shall have records, accounts,  Complied
Special Account audited by independent  with
auditors acceptable to IDA



-23-
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
TO AL497___ _ _ __    l________
Preparation to appraisal                    N/A             N/A              27.5           80.7
Appraisal                                   N/A             N/A              21.3           55.9
Negotiations t Arough Board approval        N/A             N/A               1.7            6.0
Supervision                                42.7            152.2             56.8          224.9
CoSipletion                                 7.0             12.7               .8            2.7
TOTAL                                      49.7            164.9            108.1          370.2
Table 10: Bank Resources: M         ssions
PreparationX_l
Pre-Appraisal   Jan '93     55             MFS, FA, ME,       N/A             N/A            N/A
RA
Appraisal      Apr '93      61 1    NFS, FA, HE,              N/A             N/A            N/A
ME, CN, RA
Supervision I   Feb '95     1FA                                                              None
Supervision 2   Aug '95  .2                   FA, RA                           S             None
Supervision 3   Nov '95     IFA                                                              None
Supervision 4   May '96    2                  FA, CN           S           _S                None
S-upervision 5    Jul '96   1FA                                                              None
Supervision 6   Nov '96    2                FA, HE/CN          S               S             None
Supervision 7   Mar '97    2         5      UP, HE/CN          S               S         None (though
delay in IDA
disbursements
is noted)
Supervision 8   Oct '97    3        12      UP, 2 Cons.        S               S             None
(HE, CIS)                I                I
Supervision 9   Feb '98    2        12      UP,CIS/CN   I _I                   S             None
* Key to Specializations                       ** Key to Performance Ratings
CIS = Construction Industry Specialist         1 = Problem Fee
CN  Consultant                                 S = Satisfactory
EC = Economist                                 HS = Highly Satisfactory
HE = Highway Engineer
RA = Research Assistant
UP = Urban Planner
MFS = Municipal Finance Specialist
FA= Financial Analyst
ME = Municipal Engineer



Appendix A
Page 1 of 3
GAMWORKS Agency
Evaluation and Impact Assessment of the Investment Comronent
of the Public Works and Capacity Building Project
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The main findings and recommendations of this study are as follows:
EVALUATION OF THE PWCBP AND STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION
For the period under review, the arrangement of the various stakeholders as described in the main
text is working very well. The PWCBP I has been a resounding and veritable success story and-
achieved most of its project objectives. The registered success of the project should influence the
respective stakeholders to remain committed to participate in the envisioned PWCBP II.
COMPLIATION AND ASSESSMENT OF THE PORTFOLIOS
After the beneficiaries submit subproject proposals, the technical Department appraises them of
eligibility. Points are awarded against various criteria set by the Agency. This ensured that the
subprojects selected promote the development objectives of the PWCBP.
PROCUREMENT
We have thoroughly reviewed all the documents relating to the procurement procedures to ensure
that there is adequate competition and equality of opportunity for all interested bidders, we are
satisfied that the Agency has consistently adhered to its rules of procurement in. a transparent
manner.
The contractual conditions and procedures were generally satisfactory except for minor
observations identified during the review process. These minor observations could besummarised
as follows: the 5% fee to consultants, we would recommend the insertion of 'clause 60' of FIDIC
for incorporation under PWCBP II.
We have reviewed 665 payments and evaluated the average payment processing period to be 5-7
days compared to the 30 days target in the Manual of Procedures. The percentage of payment
period beyond 10 days has dropped to 10.5% compared to 16.67 at the beginning of the period
under review.
CONSULTANTS DESIGN/STUDY OF SUBPROJECT
Various Designs, Specifications, Drawings, bills of Quantity and Unit Rates prepared during the
review period were examined. For the period under review, most of designs, drawings and
specifications were considered technically sound. However, problems were observed in the
calculations of the bills of quantity and unit rates.
It is observed that the Technical Department is understaffed considering the size of the portfolios it
has been dealing with. The Agency should consider engaging an independent consultant to check
designs and costing, similar to the services offered by VERITAS to AGETIP in Senegal.
I0PREPARED BY: SAHEL NVEgrMENT MANAmvMENT I NTL.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
EVALUATION OF THE EXECUTION OF WORKS CONTRACTS
For the period under review 78 works contracts were initiated. 59 have been completed and 19 are
ongoing. Visits were made to various sub-projects. There were a few minor snags. These snags
were more pronounced up country than in the metropolis suggesting lack of adequate supervision
in respect of provincial subprojects.
The main problem of the execution of works Contracts, seems to be cash flow problems and lack of
overdraft facilities, which is further exacerbated by 10% retention and 10% withholding tax.
COST COMPARISONS
Cost comparisons were made between samples of PWCBP subprojects and those for projects in-
other sectors. Samples were taken from the different works categories rehabilitation, new works
and roads. In general, projects in other sectors cost more compared to PWCBP subprojects.
MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
In The Gambia the maintenance culture is sadly, very lacking, and hence the deteriorating stock of
valuable infrastructure assets like buildings and roads. It is vital that all the infrastructures are
routinely and periodically maintained.
Beneficiaries should be urged to plan, design, and implement modem management systems or else
the project would not sponsor any more of their subprojects. It is recommended that no subproject
should be considered if the beneficiary does not have a budget line for maintenance.
EMPLOYMENT CREATION AND POVERTY ALLEVIATION
In terms of employment creation, the PWCBP has succeeded in creating more employment than
targeted, and has had a dramatic impact on the urbanlabour force especially in the area of poverty
alleviation. The total employment created for the period January 1997 to March 1998 is 13,341
man months and for the whole period of project implementation 27,868 man months.
One of the major objectives of the PWCBP is that the share oflabour cost should be no less than
20% of the estimated project cost. According to the study the overall assessment for both "onsite"
and "offsite" labour is 24.5% for the referenced period, surpassing the target.
One of the monitoring indicators to measure project performance in the area of employment
creation is the percentage of low salaries (unskilled workers) to total salary per annum. The target
according to the SAR is 50%. Our finding is that the percentage of unskilled wages to total wages
for contractors is 26.1% and 73.9% for skilled workers; the agency is therefore not meeting this
target. The low percentage recorded is attributable mainly t the practice of using classification
criteria for unskilled workers based on the minimum wade (D25 and below per day) received,
Gamworks should review this defining criterion, under PWCBP II.
In order to create employment, the project promotes the labour intensive approach. This is
acceptable by all parties by with some reservation. Contractors and Consultants are compelled to
provide 20% of contract sums for labour payments. Some of the subprojects do not however have
the absorptive capacity for the 20% labour content. It is recommended that the labour ratio for
labour intensive job like waste disposal and reliabilitation be increased and a reduction make on the
not so labour intensive jobs such as new works accordingly. With this approach, the tow will
balance each other and the global 20% ratio could be obtained.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
Compilation and collation of labour data at the agency has been inadequate and incomplete. It is
strongly recommended that the Sphinx's Associates newly redesigned labour return forms be
adopted and implemented. The recommendation for the engagement of services of a statistician on
a contract basis to review periodically data submitted at the Agency, be adopted and implemented.
ENVIRONMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Although Gamworks has am Environmental impact Assessment form utilised internally for
screening of projects by the Technical Department, our field interviews revealed that most of the
beneficiaries are not aware of the EIA regulations.
Some of the drainage and read subprojects have not proved to be very efficient after construction-
and commencement of use. It should be made mandatory of contractors and consultants to revisit
sites few months after completion of subprojects to do an environmental audit.
Environmental lessons learnt from previously executed projects under rehabilitation and
construction of buildings, drains/drainage, and roads should be incorporated into the environmental
assessment of future projects.
It is however gratifying to note that all the subprojects reviewed have had a positive environmental
impact, and will lead to improved environmental conditions and public health. Therefore, it is
recommended that the agency continue to implement subprojects in these areas especially for
drains and roads and encourage the development of EIA expertise in the private sector.
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
The main evidence from this study is that the PWCBP has a positive impact on Enterprise
Development. This could be confirmed by the increase in the number of registered firm (MSE's)
with the Agency, the level of competitiveness engendered in the construction industry and
enterprise creation aspects for other service providers outside the construction industry.
It is however imperative to note that there are still some negative impacts affecting the Agency's
registered forms of contractors and consultants. These inter-alia include the low percentage winners
of contracts in the C and D class of contractors, low profit margins, cash flow problems
encountered by firms arising from payments of insurance bound, bank guarantees, withholding
taxes and the high percentage of retention. The limited access to borrowed capital and the high cost
of commercial lending serve as a disincentive especially for MSE's.
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Various performance indicators have been set to measure project performance and the Agency
management efficiency. In general, the set targets have been achieved. However, the targets set for
the following indicators need to be revisited.
50% of total wages to be paid to unskilled labour. To achieve the required standard of finish for
most works a high percentage of skilled labour is required. This target might inevitably
compromise the quality of the work.



