Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11973-0M
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
NOVEmBER 10, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         11973 GM
Type: SAR
Infrastructure Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
I This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by rcpients only in the performance of
their oMfieW duties. Its contents may not ethrlse be dicoed witout World Bank authoizaol



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Dalasi
US$1.00 = 9.1 Dalasis
WlEGHTS AND MEASUE
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YFAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND AC!1ONYMS
ACCND                 Advisory Committee for the Coordination of Non-governmmtl Orniaions
ADB                   African Development Bank
AGETIP                Agence pour l'Ex6cution des Travaux d'Int6r&t PubLic
BCC                   Bsnjul City Council
DANIDA                Danish Intemational Development Agency
DST                   Directorate of Technical Sem;nar
EAP                   Environmental Action Pan
EDF                   European Development Fund
EEC                   European Economic Commnunity
ERP                   Economic Recovery Prograrn
EU                    Environment Unit of MNRE
GAMWORKS              Gambian Agency for the Management of Public Works
GBA                   Greater Banjul Area
GCDB                  Gambia Commercial and Development Bank
OPA                   Gambia Port Authority
GOTO                  Government of the Republic of The Gambia
aTm                   The Gambia Technical Training Institute
GUC                   Gambia Utiliies Company
JICA                  Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KMC                   Kanifing Municipal Council
MDI                   Management Development Institute
MLGL                  Minisbtry of Local Government and Land
MOF                   Mirtistry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MNRE                  Ministry of Natural Resource and Environment
MWC                   Ministy of Works and Communicatio
NGO                   Non-goveranental Organization
NRMP                  Natural Resources Management Fund
NEAP                  National Environmenta Action Plan
ODA                   Overseas Development Agency
pFp                   Policy Framework Paper
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
PSD                   Program for SustL-able. Development
PWD                   Public Works Department
SDA                   Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SHMP                  Second Hig-.way Maintenance Project
SOD                   Statement of Expenditures
UEP                   Urban Environment Project
UMDP                  Urban Management and Development Project
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
USAID                 United States Agency for Internadonal Development



FOR OFMCL4AL USE ONLY
REPUBIIC OF THE GAMBIA
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACrrY BUILDING PROJECr
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credt and Projec S        umma                                                r       y .....................................   I
SECTION I- SECTORAL BACKGROUND ................................   1
A.   Population and Urbaizaion ..................................  1
B.     Macro-onomic Background . ................................   2
C.     Urban Labor Market and Employmen  ...........             ................   3
D.    The Public Buldigs and Highway Sedor .........................   4
E.     The Urban Seor .....................................                               6
F.     The Contructdon Seor ....................................    7
G.    IDA's Previous Role and Lessons ...............             ...............   8
H.    Justifications for IDA Involvement .       ............................  10
SECTION EI - THE PROJECT  .....................................   12
A.    Project Objectives .      .......................................   12
B.   Project Description . .......................................  13
Invetment Component .............             ........................   14
Capacity Bldg Component through Training, Technical Supprt ....         .......  16
Package of assistace and traning of domesic contractor  and consultan  .....  16
Technical assistance to beneficiares .............................  17
Program to increase community participation .......................  17
Paclage gf services aimed at project monitoring and auditing ....     .........  18
Study Coponent ..       .......................................   18
Public buildin8s and highway sector  ............................  18
Action plan for the development of the constuction Industry  ....     .........  19
Procurement reforms .............            .........................   19
C.     Status ofProject Preparadon  .........           ........................   19
D.    Project and Program Cost, Ir ...............................  20
Co-fincing ............................   22
Local contibution to financing ...............................  22
E.   Project  lemenion.               ............................ 24
F.     Procurement .............................   28
G.     Dbbursements .............................   31
H.    Accounting, Audiing and Reportng  .....          .......   ..............  32
L      SupervisionPlan ..........................   .............  33
J.     Enviromnental impact ............                 .................   33
K      Impact on Unemployment and Poverty ...........................    35
L.     Economic Analysis ..........                  ...................   36
M.  Beefits and Risks ................                    ,.,.. 36
SECTION ]m - AGREEMENTS REACHRED BEFORE AND DURING NEGOTIATIONS.. 37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annex 1:    Itonal Setp
Table 1: Legal Framework
Table 2: Conual Framework
Annex 2:    Framework Agreement
Annex 3:     Memorandum of Association
Annex 4:     Articles of Association
Appendix 1: Manual of Procedures
Framework of agreement delegating project authority
Sample Agreement for using Equipment
Sample Contract for Works
Sample Contract for Design/Studies
Sample Contract for Works Supervision
Sample Agency's Activity Report
Sample Environment Impact Assessment Form for subprojects
Terms of Reference for Financial and Management Audit
Terms of Reference for Technical Audit
Appendix 2: Staff Service Rules
Organizational Chart
Staff Evaluation Form
Evaluation form
Performance Evaluation Form
Annex 5:    Project Fund Reguations
Annex 6:    Cost Tables:
Table A - Detailed Cost Table
Table B - Project Implementation Schedule
Table C - GAMWORKS Work Schedule
Annex 7:    Draft Training Action Plan
Annex 8:    Terms of Reference - 1nfrastructure Mainteance Management Study
Annex 9:    Terms of Reference - Construction Industry Development Study
Annex 10:   Terms of Reference - Public Sector Procurement Action Plan Study
Annex 11:   Pilot Project Summaries



I
REPUBITC OF THE GAMBIA
PUBUC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING
SAFF  ATEBAL REPORT
Credit md Projec Summary
ROM=wer:                  Republic of The Gambia
B    v:ficin              Republic of The Gambia
Cit Amoumnt               SDR 7.9 million (US$11 million equivalent)
Is:                       Standard IDA *erms, with 40 years maturity
DANIDA, EDF, 1ICA, UNDP and USAID are interested.
Expected contribution is US$2 million
Proiect Oiectires:       'The project objectives are: (a) to build local capacity (through private
sector development and public sector reform); (b) to assist the
Government in maintining infrastructure assets; and (c) to participate
in reducing the current unemployment issue by creating temporary
jobs in the public works and the construction secor.
While concentrating on the rehabilitation and/or maintenance of
existing in*astructure, the project development objectives will be to:
(a) demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects; (b) alleviate
poverty by promoting labor-intensive construction practices, thus
having a positive impact on urban employment opportunities and
generate additional income to low-skilled manpower in the urban area;
(c) test the procedures that will enable the public sector to commission
such projects, and in particular to delegate contract management; and
(d) improve, through the execution of the works financed by the
project, the individual skills of the workers who will be employed,
and the corporate competitiveness of the firms that will carry out
works so as to develop their capacity to respond to increased
opportunities for susta!ned activity after project completion.
The project will have three main components. The first component is
an investment component aimed at protecting the existing
infrfstructure from decay and developing additional urgently needed
social infrastructure. The program of labor intensive subprojects
includes two types of operations: a) public works including routine
maintenance of roads, rehabilitation of drainage systems; and urban
infrastructure (i.e., schools, health centers, civic centers, other public
fcilities); and b) public services, notably cleaning up spoiled urban
areas as well as testing private management practices of waste



ii
collection. Ie seond componet is capadty butlding thrugb
trainig and techical support for the beneficiaries Oocal
governments and ministries) and small-and mediurisized enterprises
bet at: a) enhancing the tedhnical capacity of domestic construction
cotatr and local consultants; b) improving the management of
public infastructure by local governen, and emphasing
maitnance of new constuction; and c) improving public
procureame  and contract manement practices. More specifically,
the package of tenichal and manageria assistance and trang
Includes: i) a training program for potential beneficiaries of
subprojects helping them pre-evalate the feasibility and soundness of
such subprojects; ii) a program aimed at increasing grassroots
participation in subproject identification and urban infrastructure
maintenance; iii) a package of trainig services related to work
organization, management, and technical skills training, to be offered
on a voluntary basis to local contractors and consultants; and (iv) a
package of services aime at project monitoring. The third
component 18 a study component aime at defining more broadly-
based improvents in the urban infrasucture maintnace
management; and the private sectr pardeipation as a support of the
project in general and the preparation of the Urban Environment
Project (UE), specifically: a) assistance to MWC for the preparation
of an Infrastructure Mainace Policy with the objective to improve
its capacity and efficiency in the management of the road network and
the           of public buiings, and an action plan to implement
it b) construction industry development through preparation of an
action plan for improving the efficiency of the domestic constuction
industrv; and c) public sector procurement revision aimed at
reformMg, at the local level as weil as the national level, the public
xpenditures management through improved contract management.
adequate matching procedures with funds allocated by the central
government, and through more cost-effective use of available
resources.
Tnhe Implemtntation of the project will be entrusted to an executing
agency which will operate as a private entity. The Agency's Mania
of Procedures, which at ail times must be satisfactory to IDA,
establishes: (a) the procedures whereby the Agency receives and
processes subproject execution requests from the central and the local
governments; (b) the procedures to be used by the Agency to classify
subprojects and construction firms; (c) the procurement procedures It
mt follow, including Standard Bidding Documents and model
Conracts; (d) the procedures to be used for subproject supervision by
consulting firms; (e) the accounting and the disbursement procedurs
required for individual subproject; (t) the financial management
procedures for the Agency; (g) the nature and periodicity of reporting
by the Agency; (O) the procedures to secure external auditing of the
Agency; and (i) its personnel management procedures. The
Government and the Agency have sigfied a framework agreement



iii
which decribes the Agency's modus operandi and includes the
Manual of Procedures as an integral part.
huon:dm                    IThe project will help reduce a significant backlg of economic and
social irastcture in The Gambia. It will also help strengthen
privat sector and informal construction firms, as well as consultng
(engineering and architectral) fims. Ihe operation of the Agency is
expected to have a demonstron effect, partcularly by showing a
workable '4ternative to traditional procurement procedures.
and Rialm:                 The project will have several direct benefits: a) employment creation;
b) high economic return of rehabilitation operations; c) positive Impact
on the environment; d) the long term benefits or enhancing the
efficiency of the public sector (it could have a spill-over effect on
oter I1DA projecu-such as education-by improving the efficiency of
the construction sector); and e) enhanced sustainability of future
infrasucture and urban projects through better use of municipal
resources. Since the bulk of project-relted expendires will cover
local costs, this project is likely to have a greater effect on the local
economy than other projects. The project wfll also contribute to
improving the public procurement system In general.
The first major risk is that the volume of employment created by the
project may fall short of expectations or be insignificant when
compared to the present level of urban unemployment To reduce this
risk, a strong emphasis on labor-intensive technologies will be
mintained throughout project implementation. However, it is
Iportnt to realize that T"ne Gambia's overaU unemployment situadon
cannot be resolved by this project alone, although it will play an
Importat role in helping to improve the present situation. The second
major risk is that the Agency may misuse its considerable
independence. This risk will be reduced by the selection of a director
general s well as the tedcnical and financi director wbnse
appointment will have to be at all times acceptable to IDA. In
addition, the proposed intensity of superVsion will closely monitor the
implementation of the manua of procedures and frequent eXternal
audits will provide ample opportunity to deal with inadequate
performance on the part of the Agency or Government interference.
The third major risk is that local contractors and consulting firms may
lack the capacity required to implement the project on time. This risk
will be reduced by the fact that the project will be carefully scaled and
spread over three years to take into account the absorptive capacity of
the industry. In addition, technical assistance and training components
included in the project are expected to increase the capacity of local
contractors and consulting firms. However, this risk will have to be
reassessed during the mid-term review.



iv
ammah1cL oast
(net of taxes and duties)
(US$'O000)
Project Coupum_t            LAeal Cost  Foredp cwt  Total eost    %
Workalservices                   5,598         1,852       7,450    60%
Agea's Equiment                     63           137        200      2%
Consulting Seices
Dmign/Supervislon                 911           220       1,131     9%
TAUhining                         649            97         746     6%
Community Participation           267            23         290     2%
Sector StUdie.                     115          295         410     3%
Agency Operating Costs             783            68        Ii       7%
Project  trlg/Adt                  284            63        347      3%
Unallocaed                         351           124        475      4%
PPF Refinancing                    420           180        600      5%
TOTAL                        9,441         3,059      12,500   10%
Note   Figuesmay notfadd up deto roumnQ-
Financing Pla
(S$ 11000)
S of Total
Locsl        Foreg             Total     Pject Cost
Govusmnt                        750             250           1,000               7%
___ __ __ __ __ __350                           150            SW                 3%
IDA                            8,340          2,660          11,000              76%
Odter Dono                     1,050            950           2,000              14%
TOTAL COSTS                   10,990         11,010          14,500 1           100%
Noate: T'Limab am es                                                   paa   tala
Nob: 1>t8bLey   tbet l cautes woul  Oo       f8iy to        int= D  snlb jec
tbeq do to IDA-fino   clF .t



V
Dibubseme Scbduld
(US$ million)
FY and        Disbursements       Cumuatove        Percentage
Semester       per emtester      ...          .
19941                 1.30              1.30              10%
II                1.50              2.80             22%
995 1                 1.70              4.50             36%
I                 1.90              6.40             55%
19961I                2.20              8.60             69%
II                2.10             10.70             86%
1997 I                1.80             12.50             100%



REPBLIC OF THIE GAMBIA
I,UC WO AI&  CAA    IBUCQRID
STAF-F AWPEE I$AL ARMPR
SECION I - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.   Populton and Urbanization
1.1.        The Gambia has, In the past 15 yers, exerienced very rapid and uncontrolled urban
growth without a co     e level of investment In nfrasucture and urban services. In 1960, only
12% of *e total population lived in uban  as. Based on the recen 1993 census, about 40% of the
1,000,000 Gambians lived in urban areas. IhI coniderable chge in the living conditions of the people
has been aggrvated by seve  environmen  problems resulting from the ineplay of two major factos.
Successive years of drought and inadequate rainflWI, and rapid population growth leading to ud4ue
pressure on the limited capacity of tradional agriculture and pastoral production has had a dramatic
effect on the uban concentrtion. Although rainfall has improved during the last two to three years, it
is not likely to revere the trend of ongoing migration from most rural areas towards cities and
pturly the Greaer Banju Area (GBA)
1.2.          he largest urban cenme is the OBA with the two main micipalities of Kanifing
Municipal Council (KMC) (about 229,000 inhabitants) and Bjul City Council (BCC) (about 43,000
inabitants). The lrges share of urban growt is conentred in the GBA which accunted for 15% of
the 1982 total popuation and twotirds of the total urban population. In 1992, It represented 30% of
the toWal popaon and three-qurs of the total ura population. Ihe OBA is growing at 8% per
annum, while the tot population is growing at about 4.1% per annum (at ts rate he populaion will
double in less ta 18 years). The population dynamic makes tie uimographic data even more alarming.
Curent estimates show dth more than 50% of the population is less than 15 years old. In 5 to 10 years
when this young population reaches the child beaing age, a sarp  cease an poplaton should be
epect
1.3.        Ihe growth rate of the secondy cides is also very steady. In some cases, like Brikama
and Farafen;i, they have witnessed an even greater growth than the OBA. 121,000 i knhabi  live in
11 uban centers (1 urban center   adates about 5,000 inhabitants). The ur g th has led to
rapid expansion of squatter communities in the peiphery of the capital city and the larger secondary
towns. A large mmber of poor households live without access to clean drinking wer and no sanitation
servce.
1.4.        Pesistent delinig economic prospect in ml .y of The Gambia's rul areas explain this
substnta migration to urban cees frm all parts of the country. The problem of rural-urban drift has
put coniderable pres    on the uban environment and has given rise to increasig health problems. The
absence of physical planing and proper land-use resutted In overcrowded and unheathy living conditions
for he majority of the urban populaton, pardcularly tX  urban poor, and a severe lack of basic
inasructure, especialy disposal of solid waste and sewerage system ma
1.5.        Even with improved future prospects for ural producvity, urban-bed domestic
production will be central to The Gambia's economic growth targets. Well over two-thrds of all wage
employment and about half of the GDP is gonerated by the Government, trade, transport, industry,
tourism and other services located mainly in GBA. The concenton of economic activities has placed



2
a mounting obligation on public authorities to provide infrastructure and bas.c services, which they have
not been "',5 to provide. Despite the increasing density of people and activities, the recurrent budget
share of the Ministry of Works and Communicutions (MWC) was reduced from 5.6% in 1989/90 to an
allocation of 2.2% in the 1992/93 budget. The pace of growth has already outstripped an Inadequate
network of roads, drainage, water and sanitation infrastructure, increasing the cost of economic act1iv'ty
for households, commercial users and Govenmment. Disregard for the timely provision and maintenance
of intatructure and basic services imposes heavy investment and replacement costs which the
Government can ill afford. To the extent that the urban economy supports agricultural development and
is itself a driving economic force, the efficient management of the urban sector becomes an important tool
in the country's development strategy. While the significance of urban based economic activides has
grown tremendously, serious constaints exist on the productivity of labor and Investment within cities,
largely caused by infiastructure deficiencies, burdensome regulation, and weakness of local institutions.
B.    Macro-economi Background
1.6.         The fist 10 years of independence saw broadly sti 1e macro-economic conditions, with
modest rates of economic growth. But from 1970 till 1985-86, the economic and financial performance
of The Gambia deteriorated markedly as a result of external shocks and inappropriate domestic policies.
During the same period, the involvement of the public 0ector in the economy increased sharply through
the creaion of several public enterprises, particularly in the industri and trade sectors. As a consequence
of expansion in current government expenditure, the growth of output in the productive sector of the
economy remained low. At the same time, price distorhons and regulated markets for agricultural and
industial products discouraged the development of viable small-scale activities in the secondary sector
and hampered agricultural development as well.
1.7.         In response to the deepening crisis compounded by the suspension of external aid and the
loss of creditworthiness, the Gambian Covernment adopted in mid-1985 a comprehensive macro-economic
stabilization and adjustment program: the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) covering the 1985-1990
period. Under the ERP, The Gambia's economic and financial performance improved dramatically. Four
factors contributed to this success: (a) firm deteination by the Government to implement the program;
(b) close monitoring by, and frank dialogue with IDA and the Fund; (c) large influx of extemal aid; and
(d) improved weather conditions. Building on the success of ine ERP, the Government launched the
Program for Sustained Development (PSD) in 1990, which is saili in effect. IThe PSD aims at reinforcing
policy refoms and at promoting private sector growth by diversifying the economy.
1.8.         Ihe economic strategy pursued under ERP and PSD has been prmarily aimed at rest
economic growth, loweing domestic and extera imbalances, rxducing the public sector's role in the
economy and promoting the development of the private sector. Between 1985 and 1990, real GDP growth
averaged 3.5% reflecting continued growth in the private sector, particularly In tourism and construction.
Real GDP growth in 1991-92 was emated at 4% due to quick recovery in trade and tourism, dspite
a slow recovery in agricultural producti  The inflation rate was cut to 4% by the end of 1992 from
about 70% in 1985. These results are impressive, but they remain fragile and need to be sustaineL.
1.9.         One of the main accomplishments of the reform program was the restucturing of the
public enterprise sector. Thus, the efficiency of enterpris  and resource allocation has dramatically
improved. Some 5 wholly-owned and 10 mixed companies have been privatized and performance
contacts have been signed for the 6 public enteprises to ensure their managerial autonomy ncluding
ta.ff seting and meeting efficieucy targets. The Government has recently signed a 10-year management
contac for the Gambia Utilities Company (GUC).



3
1.10.        The way has been cleared, in the fincial sector, to Increae private sector compeitdon
by phasing out the public sector's involvement accomplished with GCDB's privatizaton in June I992.
The Govemnt has revised legislation to enhance the Cetd Ban's supevisory role. Monetary policy
Is now Implemented through opm-market operations and credit ceilings have been abolished. Moreover,
marke fbrces are allowed to play a significant ole in determining key interest rates, on the basis of bi-
weekly tender systems for Trasury bills.
1.11.        The Gambia "graduated' from the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facflity (ESAP) in
November 1991. Subsequendy, at the Government's request, a sixth year Project Policy Framework
Paper (PfP) was approved in June 1992 (covering the 1992/93-1994-95 period) as a framework for
contned monitoring of macro-ecrnomlc performance and adjustment reforms. No IMF resources are
attached to tis PFP. The IMP is preparing a s'-venth PFP with the Government.
C.   Urbn labor Muket and Employment
1.12.        Timely and reliable data on employment and working panerns in The Gambia are only
avalable to a very limited ext. A population census is undetaken every ten years and the laWt one
is In progress presenty and has so far only been partly tabulated. Tnerefbre, data refers to the siuion
In 1993 but various other sources such as employment surveys, earnings and hours of work, caried out
In 1983, 1986 and 1987 and a labor force survey (1992 ) in Greater Banjul Area have also been compiled
and analyzed. In additon, certain reliable data for 1992 are avable because of the finalization in
Mruch-April 1993 of the Household or Priority Survey, a compont of the Social Dimensions of
Adjutment (SDA) program undertaken by the African Development Bank (ADB) and the Government
of he Gambia.
1.13.        While longer tetm trends are difficult to trace and most figures have a  re margin of
eor, the information on employnt and working patterns present a fmnted pice. The labor
force was estimated in 1984 at 277,000 people (9% in urban areas, 69% in rura areas), of which 22%
was unemploy6d. Ihe labor force participation rate In GBA is estimated at 67.9% for men and 40.7%
for wozen. Some 62% of the labor force Is in the informal sectr. Two thirds of formal jobs were In
te public sector in 19>5/86. In 1989/90, this share had fallen to about half.
1.14.        Overall, permanent unemployment is high in The Gambia and underemployment is
widespread. Unemployment rates in GBA are 15.2% for men and 19.9% for women. For persons aged
20 to 29 years unemployment rates are 22% for men and 33% for women. Ihe single mot important
trend is of youg males coming into GBA looking for jobs durig the dry season. Forme
in Ike Gambia covers a tiny uhre of less t    10% of the total labor force. Employment in the public
sector peaked in 1983 at neaiy 9% of the national labor frce anod it has since faUen to around S%. A
maJor refm initiated at the outset of the adjustment efforts was the restructuring of the civil service pay
and employment structure. In 1986, 2,600 out of a total of 5,000 temporary workers and 900 civfl
servants (about 9% of the total) were laid off and 800 vacancies were removed from the roster of
established posts. Simultaneously, private formal sector employment has risen from less than 2% In 1983
to more than 5% in 1992 and a level above public sector employment. As much as 80% of all fa
sector and 86% of pivate sector employment is in GBA. Data on  ma    sctor employment are
scarc. However, by combining three different sources, it appears dth the jInfomal sector Is fairly
successful at aeeting the present demad stucture. Dta from 1980 suggest a t  overwhelming
maforit of uew employees in the informal sector of OBA were migrants from rural areas.



4
Formal Employment 1985/86 to 1989/90
In OBA        1985186        1986/87        1987/88         1988/89      1989190
Public        16,332          13,252        14,293           15,666       16,022
Private        7,748          8,510         11,172           14,723       15,249
of which       1,929          2,599          2,365           1,270        1,146
Contruction                                                                        l
Total formal   24,080         22,037        26,095          30,389       31,271
em ploymen    _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   _ _  _ _ _ _
% Labor       6.8             6.0            6.9              7.7         7.7
1.15.       A structural cause of unemployment is the serious skill deficiencies within the Gambian
workforce. Ihis problem is important especiaRy within the formal private sector where it acts as a
disincentive to investment. It can be noted that the Gambian economy has experienced employment
growth for the formal sector as a whole due to increasing demand along with a simultaneous decrease in
the average wage. As te Gambian economy privatizes, the skill intensity of the private sector can be
epected to increase.
Unemployment Rate by Age and Gender
(National Level - 1992)
| Age Oemr)                         Female (%)                Male (%)
15-19                                  14                       24
20-29                                  22                       33
1.16.       Unemployment is to a large degree a male of concern for youth in the ura areas and
in (BA especialy. Based on a sample of the 1992 Labor Force Surveyor, for peron aged 15-19 years,
unemployment rates are 24% for men and 14% for women (the fact that men have higher unemployment
rates thm women in this category is a reflection of higher labor force participation rates; women are
simply not looking for paid jobs) and for persons aged 20-29 years 22% and 33% respecvly. By far,
the hardest hit group is 20-24 years of age and from the geographical disbution, it appears to be
primarily an urban phenomenon.
D.    The Public Buildings and Highway Sector
1.17.        The maineance of the prmary and secondary roads netwok and public buildings Is the
responsibility of the Directorate of Technical Services (DTS) of the MWC. The maitnac of roads Is
handled by the Povincidal Manance Division Fast (30 st  and West (72 staff) and the maitance
of the buildings by the Building Mmenance Division (78 staff). In addition, these divisdons are getting
some help from the Pning and Design Division (42 staff), especially in the case of contracting out the



S
works (cost estimates, draft contracts, supervision). The two provincial divisions alo employ a largse
number of casual (semi-permanent) personnel.
1.18.        The maintenance of the local roads is the responsibility of the local councils but they have
neither sufficient human or financial resources nor suitable mai ance capacity. So it is expected that
they would request MWC to execute the works against payment or hire contactors to execute road
maitnance.
1.19.        The principal (maintained) road network in The Gambia comprises about 50 km of paved
roads and 800 km of gravel roads. Untfl the late 1970s, periodic manac of gravel roads was carried
out by petty-contractors using labor intensive methods but producing low quality works. In the 1980s,
IDA and the European Economic Community (EEC) financed two successive highway maintenae
projects, including equipment purchases and technical assistance, supported by a new mechanical
workshop (Kotu Workshop, now privatized) finaced by the United States Agency for Internona
Development (USAID), which contributed with force account crews to reduce the backlog of periodic
maintenance on gravel and paved roads. Construction of gravel and paved roads has always been carried
out by foreign (ncluding Senegalese) contractors, or as was the case for feeder roads, by force account
managed and assisted by inteonal consultants. At the "osing of the Second Highway Maine
Project (SHMP) in 1992, the road network was generally in good conditon but for cetain secdons under
rehabilitation contracts and a very few unmiainable road sections.
1.20.        The budget allocation for the SHMP was not sufficient to en  routine maitenance.
Spare parts and wearing parts for the aging equipment were lacking, as well as basic materials such as
bitumen. The small budget made available was consumed by salaries, wages and overead costs, and
practically nothing was available for operations or contracts. There was also a need to finace periodic
MaitnanCe to the tune of about 70 km/year for gravel roads (mainly the North Bank Road in the
immedit fture) and about 80 km/year for the following three years (less afterwards) for the paved
roads (mainly the Soma-Basse road), and an overlay on the Trans-Gambia Eighway plus the
reconstuction of the approaches to the Trans-Gambia ferry. Proper provisions for periodic maintenanc
works will compete in the next few years with rehabilitation projects on the main Serekwnxa-Brikama
road, rehabilitation of additional sections of the South Bank Road, and new investments that may be
planned such as the Coastal Roads and the North Bank Road.
1.21.        During the SHMP, routine maienance was carried out by force account crews and
petty-contractors. Generally, all activities requiring equipment were executed on force acount, although
low availability of the old truck fleet forced truck rental in the latter years, while other actvities such as
grass atg, cockle shell winning (used as paving aggregates), laterit gravel screening, repair and
cleaning of city drains, and cleaning, repair and construction of culverts were exected with
pety-contractors, at set or agreed prices. The 3ambia has a rather lengthy history of contactng out
works to pety-contactors at set rates, but the quality of contact managemeDt (seting the raes,
estimating the amount of work to be done, controlling the quality and quantty of the work done) is
inadequte.
1.22.        The MWC, responsible for the road and building maintenance, was reorganized at the
beging of the SHMP but the lack of high level staff in several positions prevented the reorgation
from being effective. The shortage of staff is still acute. Technical assistance financed by the ADB is
exected to fill the positions of Principal Engineer (30m-m), Executive Engieer (20m-m), Mechanical
Engineer(18m-m), Quantity Surveyor (24m-m), Transport Advisor (12m-m), Transport Economist



6
(18m-m) and Transport Engineer (18m-m) following a consultation that was launced in April 1993,
while at least two of the Gambian staff engineers are being trained on attachment with TAMS' Consultant
in USA.
Building Maintenance
1.23.        The maintenance of publicly owned buildings has been historically undetaken by the
Public Works Department (now DTS) on a force account basis. Towards the end of the 1970s, paut of
this function started to be transferred to private contractors. The Building Maintenan  Diision has a
budget of D2,386,000 (1992/93), mainly allocated for maintenance and rehabilitation of government
offices and quarters but used in great part or governmrent owned residences.
E.    The Urban Sector
1.24.        The urban sector could be characterized by four main issues: i the extremely rapid
urbanization trend which resulted in high unemployment; ii) the growing scarcity of public resources
during the last decade which resulted in a steady decline in per capita urban investment, mostly in the
GBA; iui) the poor performance of the main government bodies responsible for urban development and
housing; and iv) the poor implementation of decentralization, which transferred the bulk of the
responsibility for maintaining infrastructure and services to the local communities, witout increasing their
resources and authority.
1.25.        GBA is expanding rapidly, despite the lack of infrastructure; a few secondary cities are
growing at an equally high rate. It is interesting to note that other urban areas, when added together, are
growing somewhat faster than GBA plus the total urban population. This is slowly leading to a more
balanced population distribution through a densification of the urban network.
1.26.        The fiwncial difficulties that The Gambia has faced during the past few year have led
the Government to redefine its sector strategy and objectives. The most notcle urban policy initiatives
that the Government took in recent years include the revision of the Banjul City Council Act, the adoption
of the Kanifing City Council Act and the Rating Valuation Act. Elected by popular vote, the membes
of the local councils represent the city's wards. In addition, some members are nominated by the Ministry
of Loca Government and Land (MLGL) - with one to represent trade, baking, iusty, and
agriculture.
1.27.        This political initiative is still raising numerous unresolved problems pertaing to
municipal finance, administrative organization, and human resources. The municipal management sub-
sector is characterized by low service levels, poor tax collection, significant dependence on government
financial support, numerous and often unqualified manpower, inadequate m  and opeatons
practices, and weak control procedures.
1.28.        Acting against this background, the current Government's strategy emphasizes the need
for the promotion of a new urban management system. As a result, GOTG Is eager to withdraw, at least
partially, from direct support to urban services, urban infrastructure development and provision of shelter.
These functions should be taken over, to the extent possible, by the local goverments and the priva
sector. Within the overall objective of laying the foundation for sustained growth through development
of private initatives, the Government strategy for the urban sector aims to improve the support that
efficient cities can provide to create economic activities and the generation of employment.



7
F.    The Constructlon Sector
1.29.        The domestic construction industy, which had developed reasonably well since
independence, has been seriously hit by the sharp drop in funding of the investment program. The
Govemment implemented in its first Five Year Plan (197516 - 1979/1980), a strategy for the
construction sector. The aim was to develop the capacity of industry, by means of improved training,
both technical and manageridal, and by transfering work previously carried out by the Public Works
Department (PWD) to the private sector. The PWD's role has changed, but training programs have not
shown evidence of success. Building materials drawn from local resources were a further concem of the
Plan.
1.30.        Dung the second half of the 1970s, aggregate investment in The Gambia increased its
share of GDP from 10% to 27% as large investments were undertaken in infrastructure, among others.
Not much atention was paid to the consequences for recurrent costs, import costs and debt service, and
with the introduction of the ERP in 1985, a shift towards maintenance and rehabilitation took place. An
important aspect of the present public investment program is its emphasis on the provision of
infrstructure. About half of the investment goes into transport, communication, and public utilities. We
can see that construction has grown significantly over the years: GDP-shares of the construction sector
have grown steadily since the introduction of ERP with a single year - 1987/88 - as an exception. Growth
rates at constant prices have - with the same exception - been above those of total GDP. GDP-shares of
the construction represented about 5.7% of GDP in 1991/92.
1.31.        The constuction idustry is almost totally demand-drven by the private sector. The
public sector could have a more predominant function, but the Government's procurement procedures and
cont   admin       practi   have tradinally prevented it from having an effective role vis-a-vis the
construcdon industry. Currently, most local construction firms focus their activities on small and medium
size buiding constuction, drainage works and small road repair under private command. Their financial
consutaints and lack of heavy equipment, as well as the small amount of funds dedicated to this type of
work by MWC and the municipalities (public command), prevent them from executing more sizeable
public works such as road paving or building. These heavy works, for which public sector command is
predominant, are generally financed by extenal donors and are performed by foreign enterprises.
Approximately 50% of housing in The Gambia is constructed by petty contractors - generaly one
person, normally a mason or other skldled worker, who has a group of other unskilled and semi-scilled
tradesmen who work together on an infmal basis. Workers are paid on a daily basis and prices for
contracts are based on informal estimates and lump sums rather than bill of quanities. In the road sector,
there is only one large and well-equipped enterprise, a subsidiary of a Senegalese company, working with
external financing.
1.32.        According to the current situation, contractors must be registered in the Department of
Technical Services of the MWC in order to be considered for contracts awarded by the GMTG, for both
road and building constuction. The original general register of contractors, based on outdated criteria,
has not been officially updated since 1988/89. A new set of criteria was drafted in June 1990 but has
not yet been approved. The register was designed to be divided into four groups based on the value of
the contrac each group was capable of carrying out. This system was orignaly supposed to provide
a certain degree of control, with the threat of sanction of removal from the register, but no post-
evaluation system has been implemented. There are currently about 60 registered constructionfims, with
a very large number of small contractors in the housing sector (80%).
1.33.        The foremen and cotruction specalists who traditionally are the core of the Gambian
constuction industry are Senegaese. Often, nationals are either owners of firms or unskilled workers.



8
Employers have tried to replace Senegalese workers with Gambian nationals. So far, the result has been
unsatisfactory, with boti employers and customers complaining about low quality work and low
productivity. The hiring and employing of nationals is hampered by the fact that few training schemes
are offered in the construction sector. However, under current harsh economic conditions, Gambian
workers are willing to accept hard labor-intensive works, and businessmen are available to contract these
works. Navertheless, in this case, the recruitment is largely of unskilled workers, leading to poor quality
of labor supply and poor contract management.
1.34.        The main constaint affecting small size contractors is the difficulty for some newlyoung
entrepreneurs without years of professional and/or commercial experience to obtain guarantee bonds. Co-
signers have to bear the brunt of the risk until these entrepreneurs are able to demonstrate to the
commercial banks some degree of experience. However, the contractors met during the project
preparation did not seem to feel that finding co-signers was a problem, given the size of the country.
Medium and small size contractors vary in size, but have many common problems: difficulty in obtaining
loans for the purchase of equipment and for first stage material loans on Government contracts and delays
in progress payments by clients. In the recent past, complaints have related to the periodic shortage of
materials. Since the liberalization of the economy, the supply of the needed materials is no longer a
problem.
G.    IlA's Previous Role and Lesons
1.35.        Hghvway sector. IDA has assisted the highway sector through two projects: the Highway
Maintenance Project from 1980 to 1986 and the Second Highway Maitnnce Project from 1986 to
1992. The main objective of the Second Highway Maintenance Project was to support the MWC in
carrying out a four-and-one-half year road mantenance and upgrading program. This program comprised:
(i) the continuation and expansion of the road maintenance program initiated under the first Highway
Maitnce Project; (ii) the rehabilitation of the highest priority sections of the paved network; and (iii)
the strengthening of the organization and management of MWC to improve the efficiency of road and
equipment maintenance, introduction of sound transport planning procedures, and assistance to domestic
contactors to enable more effective participation in road maintenace activities. The Project Completion
Report (PCR) of the last project concluded that physical works, with certain exceptions, were carried out,
with some delays. However, litte progress was made on institution-buildingmainly because of the failure
of Government to put the reorganization plan for MWC into effect. This plan called for MWC to provide
the necessary local technical staff for traiing by the managemeit consultants, but staff was not made
available.
1.36.        The main lessons learned through these projects are consistent with the recommendations
of the Road Maintenance Initiative of the sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program and can be summarized
as follows: a) appropriate resources should be allocated to road mantenance on a regular and timely
basis and efficient programming of works should be based on sound economic considerations; b)
resources should be used more efficiently by involving the private sector; and c) the road authority should
be strengthened and appropriate contract management practices should be adopted.
1.37.        Urban sector. IMA has responded to the pressing needs of urban infratructure through
two projects: the Tourism and Infastructure Project (Cr. 814-GM  during the period 1975 -1982 and the
Urban Management and Development Project (JMDP) (Cr. 1443-GM) which started in 1985 and closed
in December 1992. The UMDP was a major contributor to ameliorating the environment which supports
key economic resources (fisheries and tourism) and the health and the safety of the area's inhabitants. In
addition, the project attempted to monitor the establishment of municipal governments and to ensure that



9
these governments would operate in a suitable legal framework with clear delieation of responsibilities,
but this is far from being achieved.
1.38.        Other IDA involvement in the urban sector includes the finacing of the Waer Supply
Project (Cr. 1724-GM) and the Second Banjul Port Project (Cr. 1266-GM). Regarding the Water Supply
Project, the overall goal of IDA'S assistance in the water and electricity sector has been to enable the
utility to meet the techical requirements to provide water, power, and sewerage and to provide thes
services as effectively and efficiently as possible. Inadequate institutionalmanagerlal capacity has been
hindering the achievement of these goals. The various approaches used to improve performance, such
as technical assistance and the signing of a performance contract, proved to be disappotning. The
Govemment decided in 1991 that improvements in the management of electricity, water and sewerage
services (and hence the level of service offered to the public) could best be achieved in the long term by
allowing a management lease contract for those services. A utility man?gement company (operating
company) with a majority of shares held by a foreign company will operate and maintain the facilities,
replace the equipment with a short life expectancy, bill the customers, and collect the charges wlth its
own staff and equipment. Ihe Assets Corporation will be 100% Government-conitrolled and will own
all the fixed assets. It will be fully responsible for the sector development incluing idengtificaton,
preparation. fimancing and implementation of new projects, as well as issuing sectoral consolidated
accounts and servicing the debt. A contract was signed in March 1993 and the operating company has
taken over the nmning of the facility since July 15, 1993. Since compensation in this arangement is
linked directly to volume of water and electricity collected from and delivered to the consumers, the
arrang.iment transfers the commercial risk of operation and maintenance to the private operator, which
should result in a more efficient operation.
1.39.        For the Second Banjul Port Project (Cr. 1266-GM) the objectives of this project (which
was closed in March 1991) were: to provide urgently needed emergency rehabilitation of existing port
infraructure; to provide additional capacity; to improve navigational safety; to improve port operati
and to improve productivity and financial viability of the dockyard. Although the project took a decade
to execute from appraisal to closing, the project was eventually completed in a most satisfactory manner.
Ihe physical components were not only satisfactorily completed, but the excellent fiancial performance
of The Gambia Port Authority (GPA) and the development of competent management are evidence of
improvements taking place in institional capacity building. GPA has been proactive in identifying
problems and proposing solutions and has taken on a much larger role in the preparafion of the IThrd
Banjul Port Project. However, a lesson learned from imple ion of this project is that IDA should
not have ignored Government's disregard for the covenans regarding the provision of land adjacen to
the port for future expansion. Tbis problem will be tackled under the preparation of the current Po.iect
and IDA wfll take a much firmer stance on issues of such importance.
1.40.        One of the major lessons learned from previous operations is that delay in procurement
of goods and services is a major impediment to the timely execution of all projects in The Gambia.
Procedures are lengthy and the existing procurement process has much room for improvement In order
to reverse the negative impact of the current situation, the project will include a procurement review and
prepare a complete procurement reform to be implemeited under the Economic Maagement SECAL
project.
1.41.       Lessons learnedfrom the Senegal AGElTP. A well-selected public works and services
program using labor-intensive techniques is one of the most efficient ways to provide employment and
subsistence to unskilled workers, and at the same time, to achieve durable economic benefits. To
implement such a program in Senegal, a non-governmental organization (AGETIP) was set up and has
proved to be an extremely efficient project management unit (see the Agency's organiation in



10
pargaphs 2.7 to 2.13, and Annex 1) . About 600 Senegalese firms have pre-qualified to participate in
the AGETIP program; 78 of them (of which 75 are small or medium size) have won 119 contracts.
AGETIP has also proquified 191 consulting engineers, of which 97 have had at least one contract with
the Agency. The proportion of wages to the total cost of subprojects has reached a higher level than
expected (22% for road works, 28% for building rehabilitation, and over 30% for street sand removal
and drainage cleaning), which means that more employment has been provided than originally anticipated
by the project designers. Finally, with an overhead cost of about 5%, AGETIP has proved to be very
efficient in managing numerous small conacts (about 250 per year: half for works, half for consulting
services), paying contractors and consultants within a week.
B.   Justifications for I]DA Involvement
1.42.        Unenloyment and poverty allevaion. The main objective of UDA's strategy in The
Gambia is to alleviate poverty. IDA's concen with unemployment and poverty, especially in urban
areas, has found new grounds in the findings of the ongoing Poverty Assessment. Two poverty lines
have been calculated reflecting both food and overall poverty. The food poverty line (FPL) is based on
a minimum calorie requirement of 2,700 per day per month in urban areas. The overall poverty line
(OPL), adding an allowance for non-food essentials, is estimated at 185 Dalasis ($23) per month in urban
areas. Nearly 60% of the households fall below the OPL and 40% below the FPL. However, if 'income
security' were defined to mean a margin of more than 25% above poverty line, only 23% of the
population could be classified in non-precanous positions. Accurate data on unemployment in urban and
ped-urban areas is not yet available, but there are clear indications that a large mnmber of skilled and
unskilled labor force-notably women-are ready to accept labor-intensive low-paid temporary or
permanent jobs. Contrary to the reluctance shown in the past towards labor-intensive technologies, there
is now a consensus to adopt these methods-when technically appropriate and economically sound-in
order to fight rising unemployment which is felt as a growing threat to society. The project will have a
dramatic impact on the labor force in the construction sector, which could expand very rapidly and reduce
the high level of urban unemployment.
1.43.        Infrasn r management. GalG desires to improve the delivery of roads and buildings
mantena   and sees partial or complete contracting out of the execution as a likely solution. This will
contribute to the development of the private sector. Moreover, procurement methods developed for the
project may be an Important component of a MWC transformed from an execution agency into a planning
and contract management entity. The project will assist GOTG in formulating an infastructure
manenance management policy/strategy and the action plan to implement it. This is seen as a
preliminary requirement for building a comprehensive transport sector managemt strategy.
1.44.        Urban sector. The municipalities of the GBA have embarked on a bold program of
reform winch aims to increase the efficiency of municipal tax collection and to enhance the allocation of
resources, particularly reducing the administrtive fixed costs of municipal management. The project
will: a) facilitate the reform of the urban sector by financing public works and services which will
enhance the credibility of the municipdl authority to alleviate poverty; b) encourage citizens to pay their
taxes, by showing them that tax revenues are properly used; ad c) help address the issues of procurement
reform. All these actions wiUl focus on local capacity building and prepare implementation of the
following Urban Environment Project, currently under preparation.
1.45.        Cnsruton sector. mroving the efficiency of the constuction industry will help
build/maintain not only roads and municipal infrastructure, but all kinds of infrastructure in the cury
and will promote a sound use of national resources Cm particular, labor) by the constuction sector. The



11
project will promote this improvement through: a) demonstrating the cost-efficiency of labor-based
techniques for various types of works; b) enhancing the technical capacity of contractors and consultants
involved In the project through seminars and training works; and c) cang out studies aimed at setting
up a comprehensie framework for fiuther development of industry. The reform of procurement
procedures at the national level will also contribute to strengthening the construction sector.
SECTION II - THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objeives
2.1.         The project has many objectives, primarily:
(a)   to build local capacity (through private sector development and public sector
reform);
(b)   to assist the Governent in maintiig inrstructure assets; and
(c)   to participate in reducing current unemployment by creating temporary jobs in
the public works and the construction sector.
2.2.         Ihe development objectives are:
(a)   to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive construction practices and
projects;
(b)   to alleviate poverty. While concentrating on the rehabilitation and/or maintenance
of existing nfrastructure, it will he a positive impact on urban employment
opporunities and generate additional Income to low skilled manpower in the
urban area;
(c)   to test the procedures that will enable the public sector to commission such
projects, and in particular to delegate contract management; and
(d)   to improve, through the execution of the works financed by the project, the
individual skills of the workers who will be employed, and the corporate
competitiveness of the firms that wil cary out works so as to develop their
capacity to respond to increased opporWtties for sustained activity after project
completion.
By Itoducg efficient contact management practices for small works and services and developing locd
prvae  contractors and consultants, the project will have a significant capacity building impact on the
public and the private sector.
2.3.         Associated objectives include:
(a)    avoiding the need to increase the civil service;
(b)    combin the benefits of imple     n methodologies that feature low cost,
high visibility and impact;



12
(c)   supporting other development programs by efficinty excuting    t not
fincing) their subprojects related to infrsuct;
(4)   using transparent and expeditous and flexible pocedur  for subproject
proposas, appraisals, procurement and disburements; and
(e)    providing sustainable technical and managerial assistance to contrs.
2.4.         Using the concept of contract magment, the municipalities want to promote the
construction or restoration of basic infrastructure as a central element of urban regeneration and of the
Government decenralizaton program. Such capital investments would have multiple effects associated
with the constuction or restoration phase, while having a substidal Impact on the local economy.
Furthermore, the reifrbising of obsolete infrastructure would have secondary multiplier effects on
employment and income associated with the ongoing use of the restored or newly built facilities.
2.5.         Aftr  considering the barriers that small contactors face in terms of access to public
contracs, it was deemed necessay to establish a special agency with private legal stalus to implement
the projectL To this ema, an organization called GAMWORKS, the Gambhan Agency for the Management
of Public Works (called hereafter *the Agency") has been created based on the same model already in
place in Senegal, Mali, Niger, Burkina Faso, Maurtaa and Beni. The Agny's structre is described
in paras. 2.40 to 2.S and in Annex 1.
2.6.         Innded brfldaries. Ihe project's i ded beneficiaries are divided into four groups.
First, there i the population at large, benefittng from better draiage, saitaton, and roads. In
particular, thi will benefit the poorest neighborhoods, since project seection critia give priority to
poorest are. Second, there are the small enterpss  and unskiled labor force fiom the inrma sector
who mosdy are in te lowest part of the income distibuti   'Me project will provide them with wor
and contbt to makin them achieve a tansition from the informal to the formal sector. During the
appraisal, the mission met with represeves of NGOs and the Women in Develoment Ptoject (WID)
regarding the potentil participation of women in the public wodrs to be executed by the Agency. Ihese
organizat    expessed a sog desire to disseminate project hinomaon (ptoject sites and dae) to
interested women thrmugh their group activities. The Agency will inform these orgizaons on projects
to be executed on a quaterly basis to pursue this potendal participation.
B.     jpett Deipdton
2.7.         Ihe ptoject will have tree main components:
(a)    an kmetmet umgnnit aimed at protect  the exstg iruteure from
decay and developing additional urgenty needed social ifsur.  The
program of labor-itensive subprojects inldudes two types of operations:
i)    public works, notably routine mintenac of roads, rehabilitation of
dramiage ystem  and urban einauctu  I.e., schools, health centers,
Civic ce , other puIc faCilidts); and
iB)    public sevi, paticulaly cleaning up spoiled ura are  as wel as
testng private managemet practices of waste collection



13
(b)    a tfawItv building pMonWt thmig kaini  ad twhnica1 supjnd for (i)
the beneficiaries (ocal governments and ministries) and (ii) small-and medium-
sized enterprises aimed at:
i)    enhancing the tecical capacity of domestic construction contractrs and
local consultants;
U)    improving the management of public infrastructure by local govments,
and emphasizing maintenance over new construction; and
iii)   improving public procurement and contract management practices.
More specifically, the package of technical and managerial assistance and trainikg
includes:
a training program for potential beneficiaries of subprojects of component (a), for
helping them pre-evaluate the feasibility and soundness of such subprojects (para.
2.20);
a program aimed at increasing community participation in: (a) subproject
denification and (b) urban infrastructure maintenance (para. 2.21);
a package of training services related to work organization, managemen, and
tecnical skills training, to be offered on a voluntary basis to local contractors
who will be awarded contracts under component (a); and a training program for
local engineering firms and individual consultants on te preparation of feasibility
studies and technical project proposals for component (a) (paras. 2.13 to 2.19);
and
a package of services aimed at project monitoring (parm 2.22).
(c)    a asW   uimw        aimed at defing more broadly-based improvements in ()
urban maintece management; and (ii) private sector participation as a support
of the project In general and the preparation of the UEP, specificaRy:
V)    assistance to MWC for the preparation of an Infau cture Maintenance
Policy with te objective to improve its capacity and efficiency in the
managemnent of the road network and the public buildins mantnance,
and an action plan to implement it (para 2.24);
ii)    constuction industry development through preparation of a strategy for
improvg the efficienc of the domestic construction industry (para
2.25); and
iii)   public sector procurement revision aimed at reforming, at the local level
as well as the national level, the public expenditures management thgh
improved contract management, adequate maotg prcedures with
funds allocated by the central govemment, and through more cost-
effective use of available resources (para. 2.26).



14
a) lnwsemm Conyonem (JS$7.4 million)
2.8.         Public works program. This program will undertae rehabilitation and maintenance of
public inftructur in urban areas and on the road network, especially in the field of construction and
public works, i.e., drainage network cleaning, public building rehabilitation, road maintece, and urban
renewal. Tuese activities will be carried out under labor-intensive schemes by local contactors in order
to create employment. Ibis project component will represent approximately 65% of the Agency's
activities in terms of the total labor intensive program.
2.9.         Ihe activities are most likely to be the following:
(a)    construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of street and road drainage, and of
small bridges;
(b)   construction, repairs, rihabilitation and maintece of street and road pavemet
and shoulders;
(c)    construction, rehabilitation and matenanc of public infrastructire, such as
cassrooms and health facilities;
(d)   street cleaning work and garbage collection operations;
(e)    water and soil conservation works; and
(f)    construction, rehabDlitation and maintenance of recreation areas and sports
facilities, and tree planting activities.
Due to a large lack of infrastructure rehabDitation and maintenance, and based on previous experiences
in similar projects, the internal rate of ret  (IRR) will be well above the 12% minimum that is included
in the Manual of Procedures (para 2.80).
2.10.        Public sernices program. This program wi undetake, on a temporay bas, some
public services such as primary waste collection, or the contacting out, for a specfic period, of the
maintance activities mentioned in the previous paragraph. The objecdve of this program is to
demonst  the cost-efficiency and the sustainability of labor-intensive schemes, which will lead to
creatig durable employment. At the same time, direct beneficiaries of the services will be ancouraged
to participate in their financing through implementation of the community participation action plan. This
program will represe  approximately 35% of the Agency's activities in terms of total project costs.
2.11.        The activities are most likely to be the following:
(a)   cleaning of public facilities and infrastructure such as streets, removal of waste
accumulated over the years, etc.; and
(b)    collection of waste by non-motorized methods and transport to concentration
points, which wiUl help the municipalities of GBA use more eficiently their
heavy equipment (loaders and trucks) by concentrting on transport from these
conentration points to the final deposits.



1S
2.12.        Initlly, labor-intensive activities finaned by the project will be concentrated in the
GBA. But, ater about a year, the Agency will be able to undertake similar operations In other urban
and peri-urban areas. But, when expending its operations on a broader geographic zone, the Agency wlll
have to keep management cosQt under control, which may lead to stardtg several operations in the same
regon at the same time, in order to reduce supeAvision and inspection costs.
b) Cpacply Building CoWnent thuough Training and Technical Spport (US$1.38 million)
2.13.        Package of assiance and trawng of domesdc contractor-s wad consuduats (US$356,000
base cost). This component will aim at increasing the technical and managerial capacit of small- and
medium-scale Gambian firms in the building and construction trades. The raionale behind this
component is twofold:
(a) most firms in the target group are expected to show weaknesses, in terms of
management, work organization, and technical skldls, which might jeopardize the
successful implementation of the subprojects that they will be commissioned to cafry out.
The provision of some local technical support to contractors Is deemed an effective way
of addressing this risk;
(b)   conversely, these firms which are awarded contracts under the proposed projects may be
expected to be comparatively more efficient than others, if the selection process is
ffective. Therefore, with a view to strengthening comparative advantages instead of
randomly spreading assistance over the whole industry, these firms deserve to be assisted
to improve the overaU efficiency and competitiveness of the industry.
2.14.        The Agency will conduct a survey to determine the training needs and the wiSlingness of
the contractors to pardcipate in the financing of these needs. For now, all of the entrepreneur
Interviewed indicated training needs for themselves and their employees in specific fields (site
management, technical training, accounting and finance). They complained that the existing local
raining/educational institutions, which exist in both the public and the private sector, do not offer traini
modules adapted to their specific reeds.
2.15.        Based on the findings of the survey, several sub-programs will be offered under tis
component, some of which could be:
(a)   business administration and financial management program  intended for
entrepreneurs and their administrative staft
(b)   a work organization progrm primaily designed for foremen;
(c)   various techical trainig courses to improve the skills of basic workers; and
(d)   training works in the main activities financed by the project.
2.16.        Local resources are available for providing these training programs and the project will
almost completely rely on exisng trainigleducational institutions already in The Gambia, in both the
public and private sectors. The project will give these institutions an opportunity to reach a new demand,
through training modules different from what they have been famliar with so far. Management courses
and Technical tiing in building trades are provided by Ihe Gambia Tecimcal Training Institue (GM
and MNagement Development Instiute (MDI). All local institutions will be invit to participate in the



16
orVnization of speciflc sessions in their respective fields. In addition, local consutants who have been
or will be Involved In the provision/organization of training in this project will draw on the experience
of other AGETIPs, especially in Dakar, Bamako, and Niamey.
2.17.        However, special training modules have to be designed to fit the potendal trainees. These
training sub-programs would be very practical at the community level and will take the form of on-the-job
assistance and training. Short sessions (four hours per day, over two to five days, for instance) will be
organized to allow the trainees to do their own business on a part-time basis. Managerial and technical
assistance and training will be offered on a voluntary and cost-sharing basis. Costs per trainee per day
are expected to be in the range of US$40.60 (the average daily fee of local consultants is US$200).
Contractors (or ardsans or communities) who already meet the prequalification requirements will be frec
to accept or refise this form of assistance, and will be classified as eligible to bid for the appropriate
nature and size of works. Contractors who do not yet filly meet prequalificaton requirements, and who
accept this technical assistance, will have access to training works, after which they will be registered or
not as eligible bidders, depending upon their performance. Firms benefitling from assistance and training
programs will reimburse the Agency for part of tLe related costs, preparing the construction sector to
participate, in the futre, in the fiacing of its own tralning/educational schemes and institutions.
2.18.        Ihe establishmet of an effective technical and managerial assistance operation for the
small and medim size ffnms involved in project execution will be delegated to an outside entity that will
be contracted for this purpose. This assistance will be offered for a limied period of time (up to six
months), wil be given by local consulting firms, and will be demand-driven. Terms of reference have
been drafted to solicit a methodology responding to the training needs. Based on that proposal, an action
plan will be designed by local consultants. A draft acton plan for the implementation of the pilot
operations will be prepared. The action plan will be updated annually (during the fourth quarter) to
reflect the needs identified during site supervision of project execution.
2.19.        A similar program will offer training and technical asistance to local consuldting firms
and   iidua consultants. The review of the local conutng industry commissioned during project
preparation has shown that the limited  mber of exsting fitms suffer, to various extents, from
insufficient technical capacity. In addition, the review has Identified individuals who have the poteal
to act as individual consultants or to set up their own firms, subject to market opporunities and the
provision of training. Consequently, a package of training and technical assistance will be offered to
individual consultants and consulting firms through mobilization of local human resources. No foreign
or long term technical assistance will be financed under the project. The package will include:
-.)    a business administration and financial management program intended for entrepreneurs
and their administrative staff, and
(b)    a technical program on the techniques of works and services involved in the project
activities, and on the organization of effective supervision.
2.20.         Tedmical assance to benfd aries (US$390,XM) base cost). This component, to be
similarly impomented by local cuosultants, and drawing lessons from the experience of other AGETIPs,
will povide support to the beneficiaries for preparing feasibility studies and technical project proposals
tgat would be submitted to the Agency for funding. It wil be organized on a similar basis as the
technical assistance provided to contractors and consultants. In order to ease the implementation of the
tg     component,  a draft action plan has been designed (Annex 7). Based on the findings of a
preiminry study, the global training program for the beneficiaries and the small and medium enterprises
were dicsed and finalized during negodations (para 3.2b). The priorities of the action plan will be



17
implemented by GAMWORKS. lhe submission of the training action plan Is a cond igb  f gfi=
(para 3.4d).
2.21.        Programtocease omunlpardcOpa  (US$290,000basecos. Th  compont
would help organize a program to increase community patcipation in urban infrastructure project
maintenance. During the preparation proces, a communication strategy was defined to dLemint
information (using nation languages and aproprae means, like music) to the neighoorhood commitees
and to the day labores and micro-enepreteurs to increase the level of responsibility that the commuity
feels with respect to project works. In this framework, the Agency will organize a number of activities
to increase public awareness and support for the project. The credit will provide financing for these
activities, including an information seminar to distribute documentation and to sensitize the population
on the project, a meeting of the general assembly of the Agency, and a week4ong campaign in the media.
The objective of this program is to improve communication between the community and local authorities
so hat the former are consulted on projects that affect their neighborhood, before the projects are
presented to the Agency for funding and implementation. This is paricularly Important in the case of
garbage collection and sewer cleaning, where community participation can make a difference in terms
of public hygiene. The Agency wiUl contract out this component to local consulan  and local media.
Based on the preliminary study carried out before project appraisal, an action plan for the community
partcipation program was discussed and finalized during negotiations (para 3.2i). The community
participation aspects have been built into the appraisal process of the subprojects sumitted by the
beneficiaries. Among other criteria, the Agency will classify the subprojects, on the basis of the local
participation in the identification of the project and the maintenance arrangements which wil be taken
at the community level. The more the community is involved in the preparation procedure, the higher
the rankng of the subproject will be. The submission of the community participation program is a
eondion of effeiveness (para 3.4d).
2.22.        Package of sernces abied at project monitoring and audtng (US$347k000 base cost).
Thorough and rapid ex-post audits must ensure that the Agency uses the funds in accordance with the
Mamal of Procedures. Consequently, quarterly technical, managerial, and financial reviews of the
Agency's performance wil be carried out by an extemal auditor. This auditor will produce quarterly
intem reports and a complete annu  audit report. The auditor wil be a financial auditing firm which
will have an agreement with a consulting firm or with individual consulnts with technical and
managerial expertise. It is essental that the audit review together the financial, manageral and technical
performance of the Agency (para 2.68). The periodicity and terms of reference of fiscal, technical,
managerial, and environmental audits and the short-list of potential auditing firms or joint-ventures were
agreed during negotiations (para. 3.2a aid d).
c) Study Cwqnent (US$410,00)
2.23.        GAMWORKS will manage the administrative and financial aspects of the sectoral studies
described below (bid preparation, contract award, payments).  Specific technical ininistia
committees, chaired by MOF will follow-up the technical proposals of the studies which should be
completed within 12 months after effectiveness. Ihe detailed action plans to be adopted by the respective
con"mittees after the completion of the studies will be discussed during the mid-term review and
appropriate recommendations witl be made for the implementation of the actions agreed upon.
2.24.        Public buidings and highway sector. Seting i4p an  faswwcture maintenance policy
(US$162,000 base cost). This component is aimed at resuming the dialogue on road mannance which
has been interrupted since the completion of the Second Highway Main e Project. The objective



18
Is to build a consensus within GOTO on a comprehensive building and road maintenance management
policy and a time bound action plan. This policy will likely Include the following:
(a)   the adoption by the technical irins     committee of appropriate implementation
arrangements to achieve a progressive shift of road maintenance works from force
account to contractors; and
(b)   the adoption by the MWC of a life-cycle economic evaluation of investment and recurrent
costs analysis (HDM m or equivalent) to assist in developing highway maintenance
strategy and investment programs.
This component has been discussed and will be carried out in close cooperation with high level staff in
MWC (Annex 8). The scope and time-schedule of the study on the infrastructure management strategy
were finaized during negotiations (para 3.20).
2.25.        Actionplanfor the dewlopme of the constrctkn Iduswy (US$154,000 base cost). This
cowmponent aims at establishing dialogue between public agencies and the private construction sector in
order to enhance the perbfmance of the industry. This dialogue will lead to an action plan including
measures such as:
(a)   the introduction of institutional arrangements for the provision of technical and
managerial training to contractors on a permanent and sustainable basis;
(b)   the introduction of institutional arrangements for education schemes in construction
trades;
(c)   the establishment of effective contractrs' and consultants' associations;
(d)   strengthening of construction enterprises and supporting measures to address the
constraints identified; and
(e)   improvement in legislation (including dity and taxation regime, procurement and
contracting procedures).
The study will particularly focus on: (1) identifying and euamining the current constraints impeding the
growth of the constuction industry; (ii) proposing a policy for its development Oong term goal) and
developing a specific action plan and short term measures. The terms of reference and the scope and
tine-schedule of the acdon plan for the development of the construction industry are detailed in Annex
9. 1 ial agreement on the terms of reference was reached during negotiations (para 3.2g).
2.26.        Proczrement reforms (US$94,0(0 base cost). This component will aim at preparing a
procurement reform package to be included in the Economic Management SECAL under preparon.
i process should ease project implementation procedures, notably the procurement, disbursements and
reporting procedures. A two-fold approach for enhancing procurement practices has been designed: (i)
identification of current bottlenecks and diagnosis on the public procurement legal framework; and (-d)
identification of an action plan aiming to prepare the implementation of pertnent procurement reforms,
and develop sound and efficient procurement practices. The first phase of the procurement study financed
under the PPF has been completed. Its findings were discussed during the recent Country Portfolio
Performance Review (CPPR) and reviewed during negotiaton! (pi  .2. Th_ t*           w



19
lhe second phase of the prcement study were finalized on the basis of the meetings held during
negiatious (Ane 10).
C.    Status of Project Preparation
2.27.        In an attempt to furher midgate negative effects which might occur from the adjustment
program on the economy as a whole and on the youth and the urban poor in particular, GOTG is
supporting macr-economic growth policies with specific employment generation programs that are cost-
effective. As overall growth cannot tak-e place without the necessary infastructure in terms of roads,
schools, dispensaries, etc., the construction industry seemed the logical startng point for intervention.
This industry is one of the largest economic sectors in the country after agrculture and is a sector with
major employment opportunities. Therefore, GOTG informed an IDA mission, in September 1992 that
it had decided to undertake a public works and capacity building project. A prepaation mission visited
The Gambia in October 1992, followed by the pre-appraisal mission in January 1993. The appraisal
mission was carried out in April/May 1993, and the project was successfully negotiated from October
21 to october 24, 1993.
2.28.        The preparation of the project has gone swifty, due to the very active participation of
GOTO, and tc the granting of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). A coordination committee was set
up in late January 1993, following the IDA pre-appraisal mission, by the Secretary General of the Office
of the President, including representaives of the presidency and of the municipalities. This committee
has taken an active part in reviewing the TORs of the various preparatory studies, and in the selection
process for the position of the Agency's director general. The committee has also proposed a list of pilot
operations and prepared their summaries. A PPF in the amount of US$600,000 was grated to GOTG
on Januay 4, 1993 and additional financing was obtained from various trust fimds (Finnish and Danish)
to finance a first tranche of short-term consultant services in various fields (review of the employment
and labor regulations, idendfication of the training program for small and medium scale enterprises as
well as beneficiaries, definition of the communication strategy, legal studies of the Agency's by-laws,
dentification of five pilot projects, etc.). All of these studies have been carried out and the findings have
also been discussed with the Government and recommendations have been incorporated into the project
design. Additional short term studies' impact on environment and the feasibility study of the pilot
projects) necessary for the project preparation, the Agency's operating costs for six monts, i d a trial
program of six subprojects are also financed under the PPF (see para. 2.42). The selection process of
the Agency's director general was completed during the appraisal mission. The director general has been
hired and participated in the project negotiations.
2.29.        To enable the municipalities of the GBA to mobilize their proper financing and therefore
benefit from programs financed by the Agency, an action plan (focusing on local resources mobilization,
restrcturing of the collection of market fees, management and accountability of the municipal tax
collector, etc.) will be proposed by the local authorities, eventualy with the support of local consultants.
Ihe municipalities had agreed to involve the private sector more in some municipal activities such as
waste collection. However, other measures are under the exclusive responsibility of the central
government. Dialogue between municipalities, MLGL and MOF started during project preparation and
should be pursued until efficient procedures and organization are in place to achieve a satisfactory tax
collection.



20
D.   Project and Program Cost, Pan
2.30.        The project cost is estimated at US$12.5 million equivalent (D114 v4llion) net of taxes
and duties. The foreign exchange component of the program is estimated at 24% of the total cost. Base
cost esdmates Cm US$) are in January 1993 prices. Annwal inflation rates have been estimated as follows:
IABL  1:Lwal od Foreig Inflation Rate
_  1993          11994             1995              1996
Local            4.5              4.0              4.0               4.0
Foreign          3.9              3.9              3.8               3.8
2.31.        Since the volume of labor-intensive public works will be adjusted according to available
funds, price contingencies have not been applied to the estimated local cost of the labor-intensive public
works and service component (mcluding design and supevision) which amounts to US$5.6 million and
constitutes 59% of total base costs. Price contingencies amount to US$475,000 or 4% of the related base
costs. A summary of estimated costs is presented in Table 2 below. Detailed project costs are provided
in Annex 6.
2.32.        The proposed IDA credit of US$11 million equivalent will fiance 88% of project costs
net of duties and taxes over a three-year period. The local financial contribution will be US$1.5 mfllion
equivalent, or 12% of the total project cost. This local contnbution will be made by the beneficiaries
(local goverments, NGOs, etc.) for an esdmated amount of US$0.5 million and by the Goveranent for
an estimated amount of US$1 million. For the sake of comparison, total Govenment budgetary revenue
is estimated at D651.S million for 1991/92 and D770.3 projected for 1992/93 (US$85 million in 1993).
The local contribution to each subproject will be made available to the Agency by the beneficiary and/or
the Government (actually the Ministry promoting the subproject) at the time of signing the related contract
management. Until the contribution is acaly paid, the Agency will not start the subproject (Para 2.49).
The Government's contribution wil be provided to the Agency from Government budgetary resources
ffn addition to those financed by IDA and other co-financiers).



21
7ADL   3EMwn& Qt Summar (Lg gf =a  and dutii)
hmma~ PM -C
(US$'OOO)
Ptoj.ct Component               LocAl Cost    Foreign cost    Totaleast  |  %
Worlservices                            5,598           1,852        7,450      60%
Agency's Equpmet                         63             137          200        2%
Conulting Sevies
Design/Supervision                       911             220        1,131       9%
TAMraning                                649              97          746       6%
Communlity Participation                267               23          290       2%
Sector Studies                           115             295          410       3%
Agency Operaing Costs                    783              68          85         7%
Project Monitoring/Audit                 284              63           347       3%
UInallocated                 |           351             124          475       4%
_PF Re__n___g          _                 420              180          600       5%
TOTAL                    i9,441                     3,059       12,500     100%
Fp   nSUr8axy notadddup dw to.
2.33.        Co-fbiacing. Paralel financing totaing US$2 milion equivalent (D18.2 million), or 14%
of total project cos, has been explored with DANIDA, EDF, JICA, UNDP and USAlD. The  donors
have expressed their interesL A consultation process has been launched locally, and the resuts were
reviewed during negotiations (para. 3.2j). It was agreed that the GIOTG will notify, as soon as possible,
MDA of the progress made in the mobiliton of additional resources. Should the  expectaions fail to
tialize, the Agency will corplete the project in less than three years. Should donors come up with
more money, the  h Agency wtil complete the project in more tha ree years. Te project time
shedule is based on the absoptdve capacity of both the Agency and the constucton sector (see below).
Other IDA-funded projects may also allow the Agency to manage some of their contruction operations.
Ihe proposed financing plan is set out in the following table.
TABLi EinaDcing Bo
(US$ '000)
% Of Total
_______________          Load         Foip             Total    Project Cost
Governmt              _750                     250           1,000               7%
Benefiies                       350             1S0            500               3%
IDA                            8,340          2,660         11,000              76%
Other Donos                    1,050           950           2,000              14%
TOTAL COSTS                   10,990          4,010         14,500             100%
Notte fM  table assumesia i      dc          e    pauale pamcin                   g as
they do to IDA-filanced uubrojects.



22
2.34.        Local contribon tofinancing. One of the major objectives of the proposed project is
to involve municipalities in the financing process. The Agency wfll share with each municipality the
funding of each submitted subproject on a matching grant basis. Municipalities conibution to
subprojects financing will be 10% in 1994, and 20% in the following years. These contriutions wil
come from several sources: community and neighborhood groups, municipal budgets, state, etc. Becaus
some of the municipalities will not have the financial resources to participate in co-financing, the 1994,
1995, and 1996 budgets of the MLG  wil include appropriate credit lines to complement muicipa
contributions (see para. 2.37 and 2.39).
2.35.        Muiclpalttes of GBA's management capaity will be re-enforced by Identifyig local
responsibilities and defining competencies in accordance with GOTG's decentralization policy objectives.
In addition, asking the government agencies and the non-govemment beneficiaries to cotribute financially
is a sure way to give them ownership of these subprojects. It also creates the conditions for responible
management and commitment. Consequently, all subprojects will be party paid for by the beneficiaries.
The matching of funds for carrying out subprojects will be a pilot phase for establishing appropriate
procedures and testing the wiXlingness of the local governments to provide better services to the urban
population. The outcome of tis experience wi help facilitate the preparation cureny conducted In
consultation with government and local authorities under the UEP. Depending on the performance in
project implementation, the UEP design could be revised accordingly.
2.36.        The public works program to be contracted by the central or local government and th
financial capacity of the two major beneficiaries was assessed during project preparation. Assuming that
the project will be effective by January 1, 1994, the work program would be as follows:
I1A13> 4
Local Financing
(US$ million)
Cost of Work       %        Loca
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I   I   Funding
January 1994                     0.8          10%         .08
to June 1994
July 1994                        1.0          10%         .10
to Dec. 1994
January 1995                     1.1         20%          .22
to June 1995
July 1995                        1.2         20%         .24
to Dec. 1995                            r
January 1996                     1.4          20%         .28
to June 1996
July 1996                        1.6         20%         .32
to Dec. 1996
2.37.        Municpalitksfmnancial capacties will be enhanced by the finaial and insttuoal
measures taken by the responsible authorities (MOP and MLGL), as well as internal adjustment accepted
by municipal authorities. The financial leverage of the proposed project will ease the mobilization of



23
counterpart fiImds and enhance municipal investment management. This active partnership between the
central administration and the municipalides will permit a progressive reestablishment of major services
like refuse collection and road maintenance. The increase of local resource mobilization will be addressed
by the UEP currently under preparation.
2.38.        Based on 10% local funding for the first year and 20% for the remaining project life, this
governmental share of total project cost would need to be made avaiable to the Agency at the signing
of the "delegated contract between the Agency and the beneficiary (see para 2.50).
2.39.        FYnacing mechanism. In order to ensure that the Agency does not start any public works
sub-projects without adequate financing, the counterpart contribution from the beneficiaries is required
at the time of signing the contract between the beneficiary and the Agency. Proof of deposit to the
Agency's Project Account by the beneficiary will be the only acceptable proof. Ihe appropriate
budgeting program wiUl be made by the local municipalities annually. Although the staff in the MOF and
MLGL were in agreement with the logic requiring up-front counterpart funding, they are not in a position
to influence the local budgeting process. Due to the fact that many rate payers refuse to pay because of
lack: of services, this has caused the municipalities' finances to weaken from this loss in revenues. Yet,
the mission observed from the municipalities' own financial statements that KMC and BCC together spend
approximately D1.7 million in public works projects annually. According to the "local financing"
estmates, the local govermnents' contributions in 1994 will be approximately US$40,000 (D360,000
equivalent), a figure which is feasible. Final agreement on the size, budgetary and payment procedures
of the Government's and the beneficiaries' financial contributions was reached during negotiations (para.
3.2.c).
E.    Project Implementation
The Agency
2.40.        The implementing arrangements which are critical for effective fiulfillment of the project's
objectives will be similar to those of AGETIP in Senegal; in particular, the extensive use of contrac.
management. These arrangements are described in detal in Annexes 1 through 5. GAMWORKS is an
independent institution, with the legal status of a company limited by guarantee and not having a share
capital. Its board consists of a director from the private sector and representatives of large existing non-
governmental, non-profit organizations (the Chamber of Commerce, a representative of TANGO
(Association of NGOs) and a representative of the Youth Council). The Agency has a private legal status
and entered into an agreement with GOTG to execute the project (Annex 2). It will follow its own
procedures (Annex 3 and 4) and be able to avoid the cumbersome, slow, and inefficient procedures that
public institutions foliow in calling for bids, awarding contracts and disbursing funds, which result in de
facto discrimaton against small contracors. Assurances were reached tdat these conventions will be
acceptable to IDA at aU times.
2.41.        Setg up of the company. As a condition of negotiations, the company has been created
by a general meeting of the board of directors (para 3. la) and its director general, acceptable to IDA,
was officially appointed (para. 3.lc). The signing of a contract with an accounting firm acceptable to
IDA to help GAMWORKS set up its accounting system was achieved before negotiations (para. 3.ld).
The qi_ning of the Framework Agreement between Government and the company took place prior to
negotiations (pars 3. lb). 1The final agreement by GOTG to the changes in the Memorandum and Artdcle
of Association, the Mawual of Procedures, the Staff Service Rules, and the Project Fund Regulations will
be a conditin Qf poard presntation (para 3.3b).



24
2.42.        Pilot operatdons. The PPF will finance six pilot operations to be carried out before
project effeveness. The pilot project portfolio was reviewed during the appraisal mission and the six
operations were selected out of 14 subprojects submitted by the beneficiaries as representative of most
fiture subprojects.
-     Bakau drainage network (KMC, D150,000)
-     Science Laboratory in Gambia High School (Miis  of Education, D240,000)
-     Bakau Health Center Rehabilitation (Ministry of Health, D290,000)
-     Grant Street drainage (MCC, D270,000)
-     Wellesly and Kombo Street drainage (BCC, D490,000)
-     Larikunda Sabiji market (KMC, D350,000)
These subprojects amount to D1.8 million (Annex 11). The two-step review process to be used by the
company (described in Annex 4) has been tested: (i) fulfillment of eligibility criteria; and (ii) evaluation
twards appraisa criteria. Their implementation will help set up the Agency's working procedures and
familiarize beneficiaries, consutants and contractors with the project. Standard documents wiUl be
prepared for each of the activities covered by these pilot operations.
The cop 's  peratng procedures
2.43.        GAMWORKS' operating procedures and interal organizaticn imclude: (a) eligibility
criteria for selecting subprojects submitted by local and central administrations for implementation under
the proposed project; (b) apprai criteria for prioritizing subprojects submitted by local and cental
adminitrations; (c) procedures for calling for bids, selecting contcors and vendors (ncluding
prequalification If necessary), and awarding contcs; (d) internal organization for work supervision and
control; (e) disbursement procedures; and (t) procedures for handing over completed works. Accounts
wil be audted on a quarterly basis, and resources will be replenished only upon presentation of properly
documented records of the use of funds and satisfactory audits. On the basis of these audits, and of the
acal performance indicators Crable 7, parn. 2.69), the supervisory committee of the Agency will have
fl authority to propose and implement any measure that would be deemed useful to ensure actual
Adfilment of the project's objectives, including hiring and dismissal of the Agency's management and
staff.  Assur      were reached during the appraisa  mission that at all times during project
Implementatin, the director general, the technical director, and the administrative/financial director of
the Agency must be acceptable to IDA.
2.44.        Subproject Idencadon and appraisal. The Agency will widely advertise the procedures
contned in the Manual of Procedures (Annex 4 Appendix 1), especially as they pertain to the categories
of works and services eligible to be financed under the Project. As a first step, the Agency will review
the subprojects that are presented by the municipalities and ministries of the central government and will
vrify their eligibility based on pre-determined eIigjibil criteia known and published in the Manual of
Procedures. As a second step, the eligible subprojects will be scrutinized using another set of pre-
determined ;raisal riteria, in order to determine their level of adequation with the project objectives.
After analysis, the portfolio to be executed for the coming year will be identified. The list of identified
subprojects, the two-step review process, and the portfolio of selected subprojects will then be submitted
to IDA for review, in annual batches. An agreement on the outlined work program for 1994 was reached
during negodations (ara 3.2j). It is then that consulting firms will be hired to prepare bidding and
tecnical doments to call for bids. The Agency's submission to IDA of a first batch of subprojects
amouting to a total of at least US$1.8 million (1)16.2 million), for implementation during the first year
is a a2ndith Qf bgMd entation (pa(m. 3.3a). Assurances were reached during negotiations that the
Ageny will submit to IDA the second and third amnal work programs including those financed by IDA,



25
the municipalities and potential co-financiers, totalling at least US$2.3 million (1)21 million) no later than
September 30, 1994, and US$3 million (1)27.3 million) no later than September 30, 1995, respectively.
2.45.        SubproJect Iplementalon. Once a subproject has been selected, the public entity which
has submitted it ('the beneficiary") will enter into an agreement with the 'executing' Agency, according
to a pre-established model which is atached to Section IV of the Agency's Manual of Procedures (Annex
4 Appendix 1). TIhs agreement will include inter alia the following provisions:
(a)   the Agency is substituted for the beneficiary for the entire execution of the subproject and
has fuil authority, on behalf of the beneficiary, to select the contractors, sign the
contracts, supervise the works, acknowledge delivery, and pay contractors;
(b)   the subproject is both financed by the Aency, on the basis of the funds made available
to it under the project (and therefore is additional to the beneficiary's own capital budget
or investment program), and financed by the beneficiary, according to sharing
percentages and procedures described by the Manual of Procedures; and
(c)   the beneficiary pledges the responsibility for the ongoing maintenance of the subproject;
in case of non-compliance with this clause, the beneficiary will not have futher access
to the Agency's financial resources until the situation is rectified.
2.46. Prequallaton and rosters. The Agency will contract out the feasibility and technical study.
rt wll then launch the bidding procedure and contract out the works and the supervision. These
procedures are handled by the Agency, according to a pre-established model of contract for study,
supervision and works of the Manua of Procedures, with the support of a management information
system containing, inter alia, a roster for consultants and a roster for contactors. In order to carry out
the work perting to pilot projects, it was agreed during the appraisal mission that:
(a)    10 pre-identified Gambian firms will be the basis for selecting the consultants needed to
study and supervise the pilot projects; and
(b)    a simplified roster of conactrs eligible for loca competitive bidding (LCB) will be set
up as soon as possible under three categories of works/senrices:
Category A: for works over D1,000,OO0;
Category B: for works from D250,000 to D1,000,000; and
Category C: for works under D250,000.
After the creation of GAMWORKS the establishment of the   Mr gf consultnts and the mrte 
coractors will be advertised locally (newspaper and radio) and a questionnaire should be filled in by the
candidates. The applicants, after having been checked by the Agency, will be pre-quaified and classified
for the Year 1 Portfolio. The initial roster of contractors and consultants was reviewed during
negotiations (para. 3.2k).
2.47.        Contracdng and supersuion. With the support of the management information system
coning files for contractors and consulting firms, the Agency wil be able to proceed swifUy with
conting without the long delays observed in the public procurement sysm  At the start of project
implementation, the consultation process for contractors and consultants will be opened. The Agency will
submit to IDA the list of pre-selected contractors and consultants. Both rosters of eligible contractors
and consulting firms will always be open, and newcomers, once they satisfy the requirements specified



26
in the Mamu  of Procedures, can be preqified and classified. At the end of each year, the rosters
will be re-exmined and fims will be reclassified based on performnce, with communication to IDA.
All decisions rerding prequalification and classification shall be notified to the candidates with the
appropriate justification. Assurances were reached during negotiations (para 3.2k) that the Agency will
periodicaly submit proposals to IMA to update the roster of consultants and contractois. Besides the
guidelines delineated in the Mamual of Procedures, the Agency wil implement the subproject with the
support of a management information system which will allow the decisions to be made without delay.
At any time, the managers of the Agency shall know exacdy what the situation is for evaoy project,
supplier, payment, voucher, and bill. Problems shall be identified and corrected immediasely. A
consulting firm, acceptable to IDA, was selected to assist the setting up of the Agency's reporti4 and
accounting system, following tems of reference, accepted by IDA prior to negotiations (para. 3. ld). The
Agency's information and recording/accounting system will be operational as a conditionQf effecti
(para 3.4b).
Procedures reating to locaIJnncin
2.48.        Origin of the loal aontfibudon to project funding. Three different cases have to be
considered:
(a)   the beneficiary is a govermental entity, e.g. the MWC, or the Ministry of Education.
In such a case, the local contribution is made from the budget entity, which should have
adequate provisions in its budget for that purpose, during the three years of the project;
(b)   the beneficiary is a local government, a municipality, a community, or a user association
and is willing and capable of paying the full local contribution. This local contribudon
is drawn from the budget of the local authority and/or from voluntary contributions from
the users; and
(c)   the beneficiary is the same as in case (b) above, but has access to the financial assistance
of a co-promotor which is a govemmental endty, as in case (a), and/or a donor. For
isan  the MWC would agree to share with a municipality the local contribudon for
sweet rehabilitation subprojects.  The two promoters (the beneficiary and the
govenen  entity) agree on cost-sharing percentages and this is reflected in the
management contract.
2.49.        Acualu vayment of beneficIary's contribution. The contribution of the beneficiary will
actually be made at the signing of the management contract for each subproject. The local fimding
procedure is not deemed unduly burdensome to the beneficiaries since it would be required on an
individual subproject basis and at the following conditions:
(a)   30% of the estimated project cost before the feasibility study; and
(b)   70% of the remaning project cost before launching the bidding procedure.
TIis will ensure that the Agency receives the -noney in time to meet its obligation towards consultants
and contractors involved in the related subpro,xt, otherwise the Agency will lose its creditworthiness.
Ihe Agency will therefore wait until this advance has been fully cashed in a commercial bank account
before awrding contracts for consulting services and works related to the subproject.



27
2.50.        SIze of tw local contrbzlon to project jandfng. For the pflot opeatio, IDA Is
fiacing 100% (under PPF), becae no local fding has been put in place In the 1993 budget. For
1994, the local conrtributon will be 10% of the estmaed total cost of the subproject (conultas,
conta      and Agency fees), becs, for the flst year, asking more might put off potentW benefiiaies
(who have not fced such an obligation before) and consequently delay the acual start of the project.
In 1995 and 1996, the local contribudon will be revised and, If possible, set at 20%, which means tha
every dollar contributed by a promotor is leveraged S times. The size, budgeting and payme
procedures of the goveanments and the beneficiaries' financial contributons were agreed on dudng
negotiations (para 3.2c).  As a provision for local contribution, the GOTG will deposit in
GAMWORKS' account US$80,000 equivalent. The availability of these fiuds is a conditiorn of
effectiveness (a  3.4a).
2.51.        Subprojects alreadyJnaned. The beneficiary of a subproject already fiaced may ask
the Agency to manage it. he eligibility criteria for the subproject will be dermined by the beneciary
and its donor. In such a case, the Agency will enter into a Management Contrat which may have a
defnition of tasks slightly different from the fonnat used under IMA financing. Ite conventlon will
stipulate the management fee to be paid to the Agency (about 10%). The convenon should ensure that
the Ageny will have the funding available as needed to pay consultants and contractors quicldy aid on
tme. A fll up-front payment in a commercial bank account of the beneficiary's contribution, if any,
will ensure tfe Agency the availability of funds.
2.52.        It may also happen that the subproject meets the Agency's eligibility crteria, and that the
beneficiary has already received some funding from a donor. In this case, the donor's contutio wi
be considered as the beneficiary's contibution for the purpose of para. 2.48 above. The standard Agency
procedutes and convenion format will apply.
Project monitoring and remvew
2.53.        Monitoring and evaluaion.  In order to better understand the target gus of
eneciaries (ndividuals, firms, municipalities, etc.), the Agency will commission a umuber of studies
to monitor the issues of labor ratio, wages, cost overruns, completion delays, unit prices, etc. The mid-
term review, based on a sample of construction enterprises, will compute the labor ratio in the total cost
of standard road works, building rehabilitations, and cleaning of gutters and drainage ditches.
2.54.        Annu  rev . The project will be implemented over a three-year period. The project
design wMI include an annud review to check the efficiency of the Agency procedures and management
(using performance indicators described in pam. 2.69) and adopt adequate changes. Another key factor
to monitor is the actual beneficiaries' capacity to pay their financial contribution. Consequently, it is
proposed that the size of the local share and the fund matching mechanism be reviewed every year, and
that new figures and procedures be discussed by GOTG and IlDA for the following year. The key point
is that one knows how much IDA funding is available, but not how much the beneficiaries/promoters are
wiling and able to pay (altogether). At the beginning of the project, rationing access to IDA funds could
slow down the take-off. But, later, if the demand appears to be very large, it may be feasible to raise
the contibuton of the beneficiary. The scope and dates for the annual reviews were finalized during
negodations (pana .2e).
2.55.        Mid-erm revew. A mid-term review will be carried out after 1.5 years of project
effecdveness, as a more indepth annua review. The review will be another oppormnity to evaluate, and,
if needed, to modify some major features of the project, such as the size of beneficiaries' contbuon



28
to the facing of subprojects, and the procedures under which this contribution b made available to the
Agency. The midtem review will cover such aspects as maintenance practices that have been adopted.
It will also be an opporunity to review how the credit was allocated to social and economic priorities and
to Inrduce changes if needed. Finaly, the review will create an opporuiy to evaluate the need for
including new activities In the project scope in order to better meet the key project objectives. Ihe short-
list of potentil auditag firms or joint-ventues and the date for the mid-term review were discussed and
agreed UpOD during negotations (par 3.2e).
F.     rouement
2.56.        All Bank-flnanced procurement will be made following the Bank's guidelines for
procurement under IDA credits (May 1992). The procurement procedures according to which the Agency
wiU select conaors and award contas are another important featre of the project.  hese special
procurement procedures were designed to addres the issue of employment g-neration, and at the same
dme ensure adequte competition. They have beeii successfully used in other similar agencies in the
Region. A preliminary agreement on these procedures was reached during the appraisal mission. They
were discused during negotiations and a final agreement was reached on the adoption of the Manud of
Procedures. Similar procurement experiences in Senegal, Niger, Burkina Paso and Mali indicate that
such a mamnal encourages competition. The reportng on procurement will be done according to the
format outlined in Annex 4 - Appendix 1).
2.57.        It is anticipated that all the civil works contcs will be under D2 million (about or less
han US$220,000). In case any contract is higher than this value, International Competitive Bidding
procedures (ICB) will be followed for such procurement contracts. The mIDA Sample Bidding
Documents for SmaUer Contractst may be used as well, as no contract will amount to more than US$10
Milion.
2.58.        The Agency will maintain a roster of contractors eligible for Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB). It will set up a list of eligible contractors and engineering firms and individual professionals
according to procadures acceptable to IDA and spelled out in the Manuial of Procedures. The roster will
stay open during project execution so as to allow additional applications at any time. Large firms, foreign
and local, using modern equipment are not likely to be interested by the type and size of most proposed,
but they will not be precluded from bidding. Ihe purpose of pre-registration will be to determine the
contractors who can demonstrate their ability to carry out the proposed labor-intensive works effectively
and will, therefore, be eligible to bid. IDA will review and approve the new selections and satisfy itself
that the procedures agree with the Manua of Procedures. The actual performance of the contractors who
are awarded contracts by the Agency will provide the basis for the Agency to reassess the contractors'
classification, and conequently upgrade or downgrade them. Reassessment of contracor capacity and
capability classifications in the roster will be transparent and based on actual performance (Mamnal of
Procedures, Section m, Articles D and E).
2.59.        The target group of firms expected to participate in project procurement comprises
primarily small and medium scale enterprises, which are more likely than large ones to bid for labor-
intensive projects. However, given the low level of sophistication of these fLims with regard to
administative and financia management, they are currently discriminad against by the procurement
procedure in force for public contacts. This is one of the basic reasons why it has been deemed
necessary to establish a special Agency, with private legal status, to implement the project. Basically,
the objective of the standard procement procedure is to ensure fir competition among eligible
cona       wioutreqing them to prepare a complex proposal, including detailed calculations of price.



29
The core of the procuremet procedure will be local advertisement among registered contractors of a
proposed contract for a given subproject. All contractors registered in the roster for at least the category
of works, and the area concened by the subpro3ect will be invited to bid, and notices will be published
In local press, as to inform potential bidders who have yet to ask to be registered by the Agency.
2.60.        The contract, which will be written In simple language and will describe the scope and
natue of the works, proposes a reference price with some straightforward explansions about its
calculation (unit prices and quantities). Contractors will be invited to bid by way of discounts both on
the total price and on the unit price. Among eligible bidders, the winner will be selected on the basis
of the proposed discount and other criteria (such as proposed completion time) - if any is specified in
the bidding documents - and invited to sign the proposed contract. Ithe contract awarding committee,
composed of the Agency's director genal, technical and financial directors, will have fiul authority to
select the winner. However, it wil have to justify in writing, In the minutes of the meeting, and in
reference to the explicit criteria listed in the bidding documents, any decision not to select the lowest bid.
This may happen when the total bid price is lower than the estimated price by more than 15% and the
bidder is unable to provide a credible explanation, or when unit prices are erratic. 'Me contrct awarding
committee will open the bids in public and the bidding fims, or their representatives may attend the
meeting.
2.61.        For all contrs for which there are less than five bidders or for contcs with an
estimated cost equal to or greater than D1.6 million (about or less than US$192,0G0), the awarding
committee wil submit its decision to IDA for approval prior to nifybng the winnig bidder. Bidding
documents and bid evaluations of aU pilot operations funded by the PPF, and of the first for each type
of works or consultants' services will be subject to review by the IDA prior to awarding oification to
the winnig contcor. A post review of all procurement operations of the first year of the project wil
be carrled out by IDA. Quarterly management audits will review the Agency compliance with bidding
procedures described in the Manual of procedures and (for ICB) in IDA guidelines and sample bidding
documents.



30
TABLE E lZocu_ lt
Project EleVmet            Procurement Method
(USS '000)
ICB           LCB    Other    Not IDA   Total
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _         ~~~Financ d   _
| L w.Qa                                7,725              1,800      9,525
Publi Works/Urban Se-vices             (6,425)                       (6,425)
L2                                                 200                 200
GAMWORIS' Equipment                               (200)               (200)
a) Design/Supervision                             1,331     200       1,S31
(1,131)             (1,131)
b) TArahinig +
Participation of
eommunities                                     1,036               1,036
(1,036)             (,1036)
c) Sector Studies                                  410                 410
(410)               (410)
d) Project Moitoingl                               347                 347
Auding                                           47)                  7)
& asn=v Qperafing 851                                                  851
GAMWORKS' rurmlmin costs                           (851)              (81)
ZL Miscla}Ihnua 
PPF Refinancing                           250      3S0                 600
(50)    (3S0)                (600)
TOTAL                                 7,975    4,525     2,000     14,500
(6,675)  (4,325)             (11,000)
igures n paren esis show   amount.
2.62.        Consultant services for training, technical asse, and project monitoring wil be
procured according tO IDA guidelines spelled out in the "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrower
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency' Guidelines. For the mode of selection of consult
services, the Agency will use short4listing of firms or individuals. Hiring of individuals will be done on
the basis of adequate adverdsing and hiring of fim  will follow the Guidelines (Mana of Proedures.
Section IV, B to H). All conau    above US$100,000 will be subject to Bans prior review as well as
all sole source contrc below this theshold and terms of reference.
2.63.         - ,urenent of goods will be done by interationl shopping. Tariffs published by the
Intenational Agencies Procurement Semice Office (TSO) will be used as a reference. Goods to be
procured are two cars, four computers, and fiurniture for the Agency, at the beginning of the projecL
All contracts above US$100,000 wil be subject to the Bank's prior review.



31
2.64.        These procurement procedures have been used by similar agencies in West Africa and
have worked well. Regarding the co-financing, only parallel financing Is envisaged. The Bank's
Guidelines would apply for all joint-financed procurement.
G.   Disbursements
2.65.        Since the project seeks to encourage the participation of small and medium-scale
enterprises, it is crucial that contractors and consultants be paid promptly for the works or services they
execute. The Manual of Procedures allows GAMWORKS to give an advance of up to 20% against bank
guarantees. ITe average payment delay will be a key performance criterion of the Agency. The private
status of the company will allow its director general to order payments, by signing checks and
transferring orders, without being submitted to rnumerous clearances and without being obliged to
surrender actual execution of payments to the treasury. AGETIP in Senegal has been able to pay its
contractors within a week, and this has resulted in a 15% reduction in bidding prices.
2.66.        To expedite project implementation, a sr xcial account will be opened at a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA with an authorized allocation of US$1 million representng eligible expenditures
fimanced by IDA over a four-month period. The special account wil be replenished monthly and will
be accompanied by a bank statement and a reconciliation statement of the special account. Replenishment
applications will be prepared upon receipt of the monthly bank statement. They wil be supported by full
documentation, except for contracts valued at less than US$40,000 equivalent,which should be claimed
on the basis of statement of expenditures (SOE). In such cases, the relevant documentation will be
retained by the Agency for review by IDA supervision missions and the project's external auditors.
2.67.        The IDA credit will be disbursed on the basis of the categories shown in Table S. The
closing date will be December 31, 1996. Disbursements will be made on the basis of 90% for the first
year, and 80% of total expenditures for IDA's share of public works and services, related consulting
services and 100% of all other categories for the remaining period of project implementation. The
Government/beneficiaries will disburse 100% of their common share of public works and services, related
consulting services. This share will be equivalent to 10% (in 1994) and 20% (in 1995 and 1996). The
1994, 1995, and 1996 Government's budgets will include appropriate lines of credit to finance its
financial  assistance  to  beneficiaries.    Ihe  estimated  cumulve  contribution  of the
Government/beneficiaries for each subproject will be paid to the Agency (through a commercial bank
account) at the signing of the respective management contract. This procedure has been selected to
ensure the independence of the executing Agency in making paymets to contractors, who have had very
bad experiences with disbursementprocedures pertainingto payments from counterparts funds. To ensure
that IDA  does not disburse  all of its contribution  without corresponding  action  by
Government/bereficiaries, agreement will be reached that would permit IDA to delay the approval either
on a quarterly basis or at the end of each year when the new batch of subprojects is transmitted to IDA,
should the Government/beneficiaries have failed to make their contribution and the Agency failed to
enforce its manual of procedures.



32
(a Disbutsmm=l by QV=o
CATE|RY                              AMOUNT (--OOm)         |   FJNANCED
1. Wods'
Public Wotks/Udbn Sevices                  6,150            90% of totl expditure for
subprojects initiated in 1994;
809% for expenditurs initiated
_ _ _     _                                    &~~~~~~~~~~uwfter
2. Consulting Services                                        90% of total expendiues for
Design/Supervisin                          931              subprojects inltifd in 1994;
80% for expendiues iniiat
_ _ _     _                                    ther~~~~~~~~~~~~deafker
3. Opeating Costs
GAMWORKS' nning costs                       851             100% of expenditures
4. Technical AsAtmce/Studies
Technical Asistance Trining
COntractors                                1,036            100% of expenditures
Sector Studies                              410             100% of expnitus
Project Manitoring/Auditing                 347             100% of expenditures
5. Goods
GAMWORKS' Equipment                         200             100% of expeditue
6. Unalocated                                 475
7. PPF Refinacing                             600
TOTAL                                    11,00_
Fagues My not add up due to rowumnelg.
EL                 Auditing and Reprtn
2.68.         The accounting system will be set up as described in the Manual of Procedures.
Consolidated project accounts will be mainained by the Agency. These accounts will be audited
qtrly (with quarterly reports) by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, according to terms of
reference agreed by IDA. Auditors will express separate opinions on SOEs and the special account.
Project accounts and long audit reports (mncluding the management letter) will be submitted to IDA within
three months of the close of each quarter. Besides financial audits, the Agency wil submit quaterly
management and technical audits. Agreement on terms of reference and on the short-list for financial,
managerial and technical audits was reached during negotations (Para 3.2a and d). Following its Manua
of Procedures and its Staff Service Rules, the Agency will submit bi-monthly progress reports and prepare
a PCR within three montis of the closing date. Ihe appointent of the auditors for a period of hree
years is a ondi    f effiectiveness (par. 3.4c).



33
L       Supervion Plan
2.69.          Peiformuace monioring. lhe monitoring indicators to measure project perfotnm e and
the Agency's management efficiency will be the following: (a) number of management contracts with
beneficiaries; (b) number of contracts signed with enterprises; (c) number of contracts completed; (d)
percentage of contracts completed on time and on budget; (e) percentage of paymeats to contractors
within 30 days of invoice reception; (t) number of man-months of employment created; and (g) average
time for processing contracts. Below is a table indicating the desired numbets and percentages to be
achieved for eac project year.
7, Ka Ind4iQm
indIcatw.                                 Year I     Year 2          Yar 3
No. of contracts with beneficiaries          20         30             40
and Cwnulated Amounts (USSm) (both per     2.20       4.10             4.2
you                                                             __ _ __  ____    _
No. of contct signed per year                40         60             so
(Designpvision + wozkservices)
No. of wors contacts completed               30         90             170
(cumuet l a_ll_ed)
P eretae of contracs completd on time        80         90             90
Fercntae of contruts completd on            80         90             90
budge
Percentage of payments to contactors         90        100             100
within 30 days of invice receipt (per year)
made from GAMWORKS' Special Account   .
Aveage time for processing contat            45         30             20
behween bid openig and ontract award
working days (worig days)
Percentag l icetot costs                     22         23             24
Prcetapg low sal e (unskd                    so         SO             SO
woAk    sa ais
No. of man/months of employment created    2,S00      4,000          6,000
per year
TrningAsista  (no. of beeficiaies,           10         1S             1S
per) 
TrainigAssistance (no. of finns, per year)   20         20             20
TrihgAsistac (no. of tatinees, per           80        100             120
year)                                III



34
J.    Eivironmental Impact
2.70.        As identified in the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), the major
environmental problems in The Gambia revolve around three developmens: (i) high population growth;
(ii) the degradation of natural resources; and (iii) the degradation of the urban environment. An
underlying problem/cause of The Gambia's environmental troubles is the rapid population growth, which
continues to exert mounting pressure on scarce natural resources, paricularly land, swamps and forests
around a rapidly expanding urbanized area. As in most African countries, urban problems in The Gambia
result from the inability of the urban areas to meet the physical and social needs of the steady and
growing influx of rural migrants, compounded by the high population growth rate. As a result, the GBA
and other cities face the most serious urban environmental problems and require the most urgent attention.
In addition, the low quality of public services, principally in infrastructure maintenance, housing, and
sanitation, constitute the major areas of urban environmental concern in The Gambia. No resetdement
will be considered.
2.71.        The impact of these environmental problems on health has not been recently assessed, but
it is clear that inadequate sanitation facilities contribute significantly to the prevalence of infectious
diseases. Poor provision of infrastructure is particularly hindering economic activides. Ihese factors
particularly affect the urban poor and threaten to undermine the very foundations of the productive and
service economies of the country.
2.72.        In order to maximize the impact of the whole project on the urban environment, a study
was carried out during project preparation to provide the Government of The Gambia and GAMWORKS
with an environmental impact assessment of the actions to bN carried out through the credit. The study
assessed the overall envronmental impact of the project and proposed a methodology for assessing the
environmental impact of the subprojects.
2.73.        Regarding the former issue, the folowing aspects were reviewed:
(a)   public and private institutions working at the local or national level involved in
the urban environment in The Gambia, their current roles and their potential
contributions;
(b)   current environmental conditions and trends in relation to the economy and urban
growth and better undestanding the current situation in the GBA;
(c)   identification, in order of priority, of the major urban environmental problems
in he Gambia and their root causes; and
(d)   the impact of the ongoing project on the urban environment and the
Government's current sategy and institutional structure.
The study described an integrated picture of the optimal solutions and their interrelations assisting the
Govenment and the local municipalities in addressing the major urban environmental problems through
subproject implementation.
2.74.        Regarding the simple methodology of standardized environmental impact assessment for
every small subproject, the approach was thoroughly discussed by the consutant and the director general
of GAMWORKS. The final design was discussed during negotations (para. 3.21) aLt the methodology
wAS included in the Manual of Procedures (Annex 4, Appendix 4.2). This methodology witl be used



35
by the beneficiaries in die process of identifying subprojects to be finaced dtrough the project. The
proposed approach, rewiewed by the Envionmenal Unit recently set up at the Presiency level, should
help thbeneficiaries (oca governmen and ministries) and the community groups or NGOs in assessing
the positive impact and reducing or eliminating the negative Impact of each sub-project on the urban
environment. As a test, the methodology has been applied to the six pilot-projects financed under the
PPF, and after roview, will be applied to every subproject during project Implemenmion.
2.75.        Tbe Agency's projects in the areas of sanitation and cleaning of urban drainage, urban
renewal, road maintenance, streat cleaning, public gardening, garbage collection, school and clinic
constuction and rehabilitation will lead to significant improvements in the urban environment, as shown
by the review of the environmental impact of the pilot operations. Particular attention has been given
to the need for a fritful cooperation between the Agency and.
(a)   the UEP; and
(b)   NEAP (Environment Unit - Office of the President).
2.76.        The annual technical audits will also include an environm   componen. In addition,
for the midterm review, the Agency will commsion an assessment of the      impact of the
sapojects carried out during the frst half of the project. ITis review will examine all issues pertining
to drainage, buflding and road rehabfliaion, and garbage collection to demine their environmental
pact and make recoendaions on how to mitigate any adverse impacts in the fxture.
K.   Impact on Unemployment and Poverty
2.77.        Uneqoymet. One of the main objectives of the project is to help fight unemployment
in urban areas. The expected impact of the project is three-fold:
(a)   direct impact during the project. Assuming hat 25% of the value of the contracts for
works goes to wages, and on the basis of an average cost per worker of D500 per mont,
the project will finance about 36,000 man-years over the three years of the project. This
direct impact will be monitored closely through the related performance lndicators (see
para 2.69).
(b)   Indiret impact during the project.  Each doUar or Dalasi spent under a pubLic
workls/services contract has a secondary impact on the local ec-nomy through
subcontracting to, and purchasin  from, local fims. This iWact, although potely
of the same order of magnitude as the direct impact, is currnly impossibe to estimate,
due to a lack of reliable and detailed data on the labor force working for internal
conumpion and
(c)    idvect impac after the project The project will demonstrate the appropriaten   of
labor-based methods for carrying out simple works and services. About D27 million per
year of such works and services can benefit from the lessons learned under the project.
If, and when, Gambian authorities and customers filly accept this finding and use the
labor-based methods, one can expect that about 10% of the cost of the related works or
services will shift from capital to labor. On that basis, and using the same rate of DSOO
per month, the potenal future impact would be 18,000 man-months per year. This
impact means the potena creation of about 1,600 permanent jobs.



36
2.78.        Poverty. The simple nature of the works and services to be finaned under the project,
and the systematic use of small contractors to cary out these tasls, leads one to expect that at least 60%
of the temporary direct jobs will be offered to unskilled workers. This percentage will be monitored as
a performance Indicator. One can expect the same percentage to apply to the permanent Jobs mentioned
above.
L.    Economik Analysis
2.79.        An economic analysis has been undertaken for the trial operations to be carried out under
the PPF, on the basis of a comparison of discounted economic costs and benefits over time. Specific
benefits depend on the type of subproject, but include among other things:
(a)   reduction in the cost of services, in the case of labor-intesive garbage collection which
would otherwise be undertaken by more mechanized technologies;
(b)    avoided cost of reconstruction (in the case of involving mantenance or rehabiliation of
inastructue and/or buildings that would otherwise deteriorate); and
(c)   reduction in vehicle opeating costs (n the case of urban road maintenance or
reehabilitation).
2.80.        Pilot projects selected during the appraisal mission have MRs ranging from 15% to 40%.
Rhabilitation of classrooms and of health facilities reach the highest ERRs (20% and 38%). A steet
drainage extension reaches a 17% IRR. Due to the large bacldog of inf cture reabilitation and
maintenance, its seems likely that IRRs will, on average, be well above the 12% IRR minimm that is
included in the Manual of Procedures.
2.81.        Since the Agency is created for the management of the project, and is expected to evolve
unless project owners want to contract the management of their projects to it, the opeating costs are
icremental costs (and they will be kept in appropriate proportion to the costs of the projects _mnaed
by the Agency). The progressive participation of the beneficiaries and of the Government to the financiw
of these opeatg costs is also a specific feature of the project.
ML    Benefits and Rsk
2.82.        Benefits. The project will have several direct benefis: a) employmet creaton; b) high
ecnomic reurn of rehabilitation operations; c) positive impact on the environment; d) the long term
benefit of enhancing the efficiency of the public sector (it could have a spll-over effect on other IMA
projects-such as education-by improving the efficiency of the construction sector); and e) enhanced
sustnability of fiture infrastructure and urban projects through better use of municipal resources.
Moreover, the project will help reduce a significant backlog of economic and social infrastructure
rehabilitation and matenane in GBA and its vicinity. The smooth operation of the Agency will have
a demonstrative effect and show a workable alternative to traditional procurement procedures. Since the
bulk of project-related expendiures will cover local costs, this project is likely to have a greater effect
on the local economy than on other projects. The project will also contribute to Improving the public
procurement systm in general.



37
2.83.        Rtsks. The first major risk is that the volume of employment created by the project may
fhl short of expectations or be insignificant when compared to the present level of urban unemployment.
To reduce this risk, a strong emphasis on labor-inesive tehnologies will be maintined throughout
project implemenaion. However, it is important to realize that The Gambia's overall unemployment
situation cannot be resolved by this project alone, although it will play an importan role in helping to
improvo the presen situation. The second major risk is that the Agency may misuse ks considerable
Independence. This risk will be reduced by the selection of a competent management (DO, technical and
financW directors) whose appointment will have to be at all times accepthbl5 to IDA. In addition, the
proposed inensity of supervision will closely monitor tdie implementation of the manual of procedures
and frequent xern audits will provide ample opporunity to deal with inadequate performance on the
part of tie Agency or Goverment Interference. The third major risk is that local contractors and
consulting firms may lack the capacity required to implement the project on time. This risk will be
reduced by the fact that the project will be carefully scaled and spread over three years to take into
account the absorptive capacity of the industry. In addition, technical assistance and training components
included in the project are expected to increase the capacity of local contraors and consultig firms.
However, this risk will have to be reassessed during the midterm review.
2.84.        The company 's fiture. The private legal status of the company makes it easy to predict
how it will have evolved by the end of the IDA credit term. It is possible to indicate certain optionsata
Is owners will be able to choose from, as there will be no special projects or markets reserved to support
Its acdvities in the area of delegated contra  management. The rst opdon is for the company to
continue with its current status as a private company with the same board. A second optbon is its
conversion to a for-profit organization in which shares will be sold to its current board members and to
other investors. In either case, the members of its board will decide its futre.
SECTION m - AGREEMENTS REACIED BEFORE AND DURING NEGOTITIONS
3.1          The following conditions of were completed before negodations:
(a)   legal registration of the company and the first general meeting of its board of direcors
(para. 2.41);
(b)   signing of the Framework Agreement between the Government and GAMWORKS (par
2.41);
(c)    appointment of, and signing of a conact with, a director general acceptable to IDA
(par  2.41); and
(d)    appoinnt of, and signing of a contract with, an accounting firm acceptable to IMA to
help GAMWORKS set up its accounting system (paras. 2.41 and 2.47);
3.2          The following agreements were reached during negodations:
(a)    agreement on the short list for fiscal, managerial, and technical audits (paras. 2.22 and
2.68);
(O)    arment on the training action program for beneficiaries, consultants and contrautos
(para. 2.20);



38
(c)   agreement on the size, budgeting and paymeqt procedures of the Government's and the
beneficiaries' financial contributions (paras. 2.39 and 2.50);
(d)   agreement on terms of reference acceptable to IDA (dealing with financial, managerial
and technical aspects) for the external audit of the Agency (paw. 2.22 and 2.68);
(e)   agreement on the scope and dates for the annual reviews and the mid-term review (paras.
2.54 and 2.55);
(t)   agreement on the scope and time schedule of the study on the infrastructure ma_iteance
segy (para. 2.24);
(g)   agreement on the scope and time schedule of the action plan for the development of the
construction industry (para. 2.25);
(h)   agreement on terms of reference by Government and MDA for the second phase of the
Procrement study (para. 2.26);
(i)   agreement on the action plan for the community participation program (para. 2.21).
(D    agreement on co-financing arrangements (para. 2.33) and the oudined work program for
1994 (para 2.44);
(k)   agreement on initial roster of cotractors following a widely adverdsed call for
applications from contractors, and the basis of criteria described in the Mana of
Procedures (para. 2.46); and
OI   yagreement on the methodology for assessing the enviroen  impact of the subprojects
(para. 2.74).
3.3          The following have been agreed as conditions of Board prenation:
(a)   submission by the Agency to IDA of the portfolio of subprojects for implemention
during the first year amounting to a total of US$1.8 million (D16.2 million) (para. 2.44);
and
(O)   agreement to the changes in the Memorandum and Articles of Associaton, Mamnu of
Prceures, Staff Service Rules, and Project Fund Regulations by GOTG and
GAMWORKS (para. 2.41).
3.4          Ihe following have been agreed as conditions of effectivenes:
(a)   the Govement has deposied into GAMWORKS' account at least US$80,000 equivalent
(para. 2.50);
(b)   an operational recordinglaccounting system consistent with the Manual of Procedures and
acceptable to IDA has been set up (para. 2.47);
(c)   the appointment of, and signing of a contract with, independent auditors acceptable to
IDA for a period of Ihree years (parm. 2.68); and



39
(d)   the Agency has submitted an action plan (acceptable to IDA) for the execution of the
1994 traiinig program for the beneficiaries (para. 2.20); technical studies included in the
project and for the community participation program (para. 2.21).
3.5   Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$11 million
equivalent to The Gambia on standard IDA terms.



ALINEXI
40                                  Page 1 of 5
IMMlMUIONAL SETUP
1.           The institutional setup of this project is reflected in legal and contractual relationships
among the various endties concerned: the central government, local governments and other
beneficiairies, the executing agency, referred to hereafter as the 'agency", contractors, and consulting
firms. The term "contractors" is used here to include building and conuction companies,
cooperatives, associations and other legally constituted entities able to enter into a contract for
subproject execution. The term 'consulting firm" refers principally to engineering and architectural
firms, but may eventually include other legally constituted entities (eg., non-governmental
organizations able to provide services required). The legal texts setting forth the above-mentioned
contractual relationships are describet hererafter
2.           In introducing a public works and capacity building project, the Government of The
Gambia is promoting efficient management of investment resources and improving delivery of basic
urban services. For this purpose, a new organization will be created to undertake the implementation
of the project. It is intended that the agency, called GAMWORKS, will specifically boost the demand
and supply of construction services by strengthening the capacity of construction firms through
improved productivity and competitiveness, as well as execute public works and services on behalf of
the central government, local government bodies and other goverisrnnt institutions.
3.           The legal framework proposed for the execution of the project is adequate for
pursuing the stated objectives of the agency and for providing the operational autonomy necessary for
its implementation.
4.           The structure proposed for GAMWORKS is analogous to a registered company. It
was decided that this was a more appropriate legal framework for the agency than other forms of
association like the unincozporated association or the unit trust. The statutory corporadon, although
quite consistent ,would not provide the managerial autonomy that is possible under the Companies
Act. In this context, three essential components were considered for the viability of the project: (a)
the legal structure of the agency; to) the relationship between the Agency and Government and/or
other beneficiaries; and (c) the relationship between the Agency and its sub- contractors. These
elements were properly integrated in the GAMWORKS legal documents.
S.           Since the agency will be a service organization, it will be a private not-for-profit
association whose membership will be as broadly representative of public interest corporate groups as
possible. The governing body wJIl be drawn from, or be representative of, the membership and will
have general supervisory powers over the management of the agency with actual day to day
management vested in an executive director who will be appointed by such governing body before
project negotiations.
6.          It is further proposed that with regard to the private nature of the entity, the
relationship between Govermnent and the entity will be contractual and based on an "Framework
Ag==gt" (Annex 2) which would prescribe the respective rights and obligations during project
implementation. The framework agreement spans the jurisdiction of three Ministers of State, i.e.,
Finance and Economic Affairs; Local Govermnent and Land; and Works and Communications.



ANIEX
41                                   Page 2 of S
Therefore, it is proposed that the president of The Gambia sipg the framework on behalf of
government. The seal of the company will be witnessed by a director and the secretary In accordance
with the articles of association.
7.           The agency will be registered as a limited liability company, and liability of whose
members will be limited by the guarantee that they would each pay Dl,OOO in the event of
liquidation. Ihe Memrandum (Annex 3) and Aricles gf Associ   (Annex 4) constie the legal
basis of the agency and are in total conformity with the Company Act of The Gambia This means
that GAMWORKS is not created on legal derogatory grounds but could be compared to many privat
enterprises. While the company is promoted by the Government and the members of the Board, the
membership of the Agency will comprise corporate bodies representing not-for-profit public Interest
companies (Tango, Chamber of Commerce, Youth Bureau, and as soon as the mayors have founded
their association, a representative of the municipalities).
8.           The director general of GAMWORKS will be appointed by the board of director but
must be at all times acceptable to IDA. He will not be a member of the company as that would be
inconsistent with the procedure proposed for his appointment. As chief executive officer, he will,
however, be a member of the board of directors. The board of directors cannot amend the
memorandum or articles of association. Only the members in a general meetig can do so.
However, a provision prohibiting an amendment without the approval of government has been
included in the Framework Agreement. In addition, a secretary will be appointed by the board in
compliance with the statutory requirements. TAe Director general, in addition to his management
responsibility, has been appointed as a Secretary. He may also be assigned adminisive duties
relating to the custody and monitoring of contracts executed by the company (iterna audit). The
frst directors of the company and first secretary will be identified and filed with the regstration of
the incorporation documents of the company. This will ensure certainty of the proper lauching of
the company on the part of goverment.
9.           The subprojects undertaken by the agency will be implementd in strict copla
with the Manual of Procedure (Appendix 1 to the Articles of Association) approved by the
Government and the Bank. Among other things, the Mamual of Procedures establishes how the
subprojects will be selected and prioritized, how the feasibility studies wil be laumched, how the work
will be carried out and supervised, how the agency will report its perfrmance, etc. The Manual of
Prc_-dures also includes sample bidding documents with model contracts to be signed with concor
(form of bid, form of mobilization advance guarantee,and sample conta for design/study, works
and supervision). Experience in similar projects demonstrates that this reference mamual is very
helpfil for the agency's day-to-day life as it outlines, in much detail, the regulations and speeds up
both the intera and external procedures binding GAMWORKS and its various parters. Both the
Framework Agreement between the Agency and the Government and the Agreement delegating
authority between the Agency and its beneficiaries proposed by the Manual of Proceduree are
consistent with Gambian law and create a contractal relationship in the former case and a dtste hp
in the later case.
10.         In the proposed legal documents, the board is authorized to prescribe SrvicRulR
(Appendix 2 of the Articles of Association) whi' will apply to, and also bind, all staff of the
company. The staff services rules establish: the internal organization, hiring, firing and other
persomel management procedures, and administrative procedures. It ensures, among other things,



-I
42                                  Page 3 of 5
that the agency will have a small staff, Including a director general assisted by one technical director
and one financial/administrative director.
11.         Both the Constitution of the Republic of The Gambia and the Finance and Audit Act
make it possible for proceeds of loans which are comprised in the development fund to be subjected
to special provision which enables disbursement without going through the accountant general's
department. A special fund will be created for grant funds for the project which do not go to
parliament. Such a fund will be administer3d In such a manner as the Minister of Finance may
provide by regulations. The  ect Fund Reetdati  (Annex 5) also states that the quarterly
financial, management and technical audit will be undertaken by an external auditor, in exception to
the usual Involvement of the Auditor General of the Government.
12.         The operating of GAMWORKS and the relations with the central and local
govermnments, with the beneficiaries and with the contractors and consultants are shown in the
following table.



IL~~~~~~~~~~~~o--                                   -      -  -  -  -  -  -  -X   - - - - - - - 
[   g                  X           ,- ---~~~~~~~--    ---------X-------------- 
111                    } _____________________                                       _ 
I                                   S~~~~g
LS.~~              IS



44                                  - NlX 
Page 5 of 5
Chart 2
CONTRACTAL FRAMEWORK
:; OWNER/BENEFKtARY ;
- STATE (MINS)  [ .
-LCLGOVENE7
; - L   @S ,  
MANAGEMENT CONTRACT
CDNMCT     CNTAC
CONTRCT                                     FOR
FOR                                     DESIGN
coNTACORS C1LA
(       mo



ANNEX 
45                                    Page 1 of S
RAMEWORK AGREEMINT IlWET   THE GOVERNM
OF
THE REPUBUC OF THE GAMBIA
AND)
THE GAMBIAN AGENCY FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
AN AGREEMENT BErWEEN
The Government of lhe Republic of The Gambia, represented by His Excellency the Preside
(hereinafter referred to as "The Govemment") of the one part,
And
The Gambian Agency for the Mlangement of Public Works, a Company Limited by guare and
inorporated under Secdon 21 of the Companies Act, 1955 (hereinafter referred to as 'GAMWORKS')
Of the other par.
WIIEREAS -
1.    The Govenmen proposes to carry out, with the assistance of the InationaI Developmnt
Association (hereiafter referred to as "IDA"), a Public Works and Capacity Building Project
(hereinfter referred to as "the Project") having the following objectives:
a)    the creation, at least temporily, and as rapidly as possible, of a large nmber of jobs;
b)    strengtening of the capacity of constuction finms through improved productvity and
competitiveness;
c)    the execution of economically and socially beneficial public works at a cost, and of a
quality, equivalent to works carried out by other methods; and
4)    demonstration ofthe feasibilityoflabor-intensiveprojects in certain areas, and tesig of
procedures that can be used by the public sector in the execution of projects of this type.
'.   JIn accrda    with te Govenmens policy of divestiture, the Governmnt has decided to e
GAMWORKS, which hereby declares that it acce  responsibility for the execution of the
Project with due obsevane of its Memorandum and Articles of Assoda , of the Laws of Ih
Gambia, and of the countarys economic and socal development imperaidves.
3.    The paes to tis agreemen  hereby agree hat their relations shal be gowemed by this
Framework Agreement and by the documents to which they refer, or toe  that are aned
hereto and that the provisions of this Aement shall be itpreted by reference to the Project
objectives, as set fth in tis preamble.



ANNEX]
46                                   Page 2 of S
WITNSSEH AS FOLLOWS
SECTION I - GENERAL
Aride 1:            Purpose of the PFrmework Agreement.
hs Framework Agreemet detmin, within the fiamework of dth
fnament objectives of the Project:
a)    the field of action and opeatng procedure of GAMWORKS;
b) project financing arangements;
c)    human resources to be employed; and
d)    the obligations and benefit of each of the parties.
Artce2:             Soope of Project
The Project to be executed by GAMWORKS is primarily concerned with tXe
following works and services:
a)    Pukc Works
I.    drainage;
Hi.   infrtructure rehabilitation;
Ill.   construction of buildings;
lv.    clearing of sand from roads and streets;
v.    building renovation; and
vi.   creation and set-up of green spaces.
b)       &ke
i.    cleaning of public property; and
iH.    collection of domestic waste
PROVIDED that prior authorization by thfe Government shall be required to
permit any extension of the Project's scope. In all cases, GAMWORKS action
dshll be consistent with the objectives of the Project.
Artle 3:            Deegation to Specfic Authorities
GAMWORKS may, if it thhink it expedient, delegate specific works to specific
authorities in accordance with the Manual of Procedues.
SECTION U - RESOURCES OF GAMWORKS
Article 4:          GAMWORKS Resources
To enable the GAMWORKS to perform its functon, the Govenmen and fts
baeficiaries shall make the necessary resour   available to it. GAMWORKS
may also receive resources from other bodies or instittios   the ecutiaond of
projects in thdir particular fields.



47                                 ANNE
Page 3 of S
Article 5:          GAMWORKS Bank Account
The Minister responsible for finance shall make the finds necessary for project
Implementation available to GAMWORKS by means of payment into a project
account opened at a local commercial bank. lhe project account shall be
managed by the Director General of GAMWORKS in accordance with the
Maual of Procedures annexed hereto. The same procedure shall be followed by
the Ministry for funds from the beneficiaries or from other financial agencies,
unless the beneficiaries pay their contribution directly into GAMWORKS
account.
PROVIDED that the funds are not for the beneficia use of Government but
some other institution, the approval of the Government will be obtained.
Artele 6:           Use of Funds
The fumds shall be used by GAMWORKS' exclusively for:
a)    the execution of the Project; and
b)    operations and capital equipment of GAMWORKS.
All outlays for the operations and capital equipment of GAMWORKS shall be
governed by principles of sound and rigorous management, and shall not exceed
GAMWORKS actual requirements.
Article 7:          Management
Ihe project shall be managed in accordance with the Memorandum and Articles
of Association of the Company, the Manual of Procedures and the Staff Service
Rules annexed hereto. The Government will undertake the granting of the
necessary waivers and exemptions required under the Project.
SECTION HI - OBUGATIONS OF PARTIES
Article 8:          Obilgations of The Goverment
The Government hereby undertakes to:
a)    take necessary measures to enable GAMWORKS to benefit from the
advantages accorded to it by this agreement;
b)    delegate project authority to GAMWORKS; and
c)    make the necessary arrangements to enable the public authorities to
delegate to GAMWORKS the authority to execute the works to be
performed under the Project.
Aricle 9:.          Benefits Granted to GAMWORKS
The Governm   hereby undertakes to grant GAMWORKS:
a)    exemption from all duties, taxes or levies with equivalent effct on
extally financed imports of material, equipment, motor vehicles, fuels
and lubricants necessary for the operation of GAMWORKS;
b)    exemption from registration and stamp duties on operations carried out
on GAMWORKS behalf; and
c)    such benefits as the Govenment grats non-governmental orniatons



48ANE
48                    ~~~~~~~Page 4 of S
under the country Agreement existing between non-governmental
organizaions and the Government
Artdel 10:   Duiefits granted to Contractors Under Cont   Executed for GAMWORKS.
The Government undertakes to:
a)    take care either directly or through the granting of exemptons, duties, taxes or
levies of equivalent effect payable by contractors under those extemraly financed
contracts that they execute for GAMWORKS; and
b)    grat exemptions of all duties, taxes or levies of equivalent effect applicable to
the importation of materials and equipment to be incorporated into the public
domain or to become the property of the Government or public authorities that
are beneficiaries of the Project.
PROVUDED that exemptions su llnot be granted if the imported products,
materials and equipment are also mamufcturd in the Gambia
Arfele 11:   Oblons of GAMWORKS
GAMWORKS hereby undakes to:
a)    cary out projects which hav been delegated to It in accordance with the
Memorandum and Articles of Associadon of the company, the Manual of
Procedues and the Staff Service Rules and with due observance of the
accounting rules, practices and administrativeprocedures current inThe Gambia;
b)    receive, appraise and, if appropriate, select operations submitted by bodies and
aithorities benfiting from the project;
c)    handle its procurement process and place orders;
d)    select engneers or architects to prepare engneerng designs, bidding documents
ad detailed designs, and to supervise works under the Project;
e)    pay contractors;
f)    accept the works if done in accordance with the contract and evaluate serices
rdered;
a)    eecut. works under conditions of cost and. quality in line with sound
management practdes and in accordance with the basic objectives of the project;
h)    provide the Government and any instion or agency, named by the former with
all reports or documents pertaining to Its actions and to the projects that it
implements; and
I)    forward to the Goverme  a detailed bi-morthly activities report emphasizing
in pricular the number of jobs created and the mnmber of the enterprises
involved,
Artdle 13:   Apponet of the Dirct
ITe Agency dsall appoint Its Director General from among candidat responding to the
Govenment's call for applicants. The Agency shall also appoint its other staff In
accordac with the Articles of Association of the Company. All staff of the Agency
dhall be bound by the Service Rules of the Company.



49                                ANEX2
Page S of S
SECIION IV - CONCLUDING
Arcle 14:   Amendments and Dissolutlon
The Meoandum and Artides of Association of the Company shall not be amnded
without the Governmens const The Company shall not be wound-u witout ihe
conse of the Govnent  he operon appointed liquidator unless appointed by Court
Order shall be confirmed by the Government
ArIcle 1S:   Entry Into Force of the Agreenent
This Framework Agreement shall come Into force on the date of its signature by the
parties, and the government shall undertake to ensure that any authorization required by
GAMWORKS shall be given within three months of the enty into force of This
Agreement.
Any subsequent waorization which may be required from time to tme shall
be given within a reasonable peiod.
Arcle 16:   EratIon
This Agreement shall expire when the corporate purpose of (GAMWORKS is
accomplished.
Done in Baniul this   day of             1993.
IN WIr lS whereof the President has hereunto set his hand and the common seal of the Company is
affed this     day of          1993.
FOR AND ON BEILF OF THE GOVERNMENT
OF THE REPUBIC OF THE GAMBIA
PRIDENT
The Common Seal of the Company is hereby affixed
In te presence of                                          .........................
DIRECTOR GENERAL
..........................
SECRErARY



50                            Page 1 of 2
MEhMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF GAMWORKS
TE COmpANIES ACT, CAP 95:01 COMPANY LIMITED BY GUARANTEE AND NOT
HAVING A SHARE CAPITAL MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION OF THE GAMBIAN
AGENCY FOR TIE MANAGEMENT OF PUBIC WORKS
1.    Mme nme of the Company is THE GAMBIAN AGENCY FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF
PUBLIC WORKS (GAMWORKS).
2.    The Registered Office shall be sitated in the Greater Banjul Area.
3.    Ihe objects for which the Company is established are:
a)    to have Public Works and Services executed on behalf of the government of the
Republic of The Gambia and other bodies and associations recognized to be in the
public intest;
b)    applying procedures and methods that ensure maximum utilization of labor and
facilitate the emergence and strengthening of local and small enterprises;
c)    to execute economically and socially beneficial public works at a cost and a quality
equivalent to works carried out by other methods;
d)    to demonstrate the feasibility of labor-intensive projects in certain areas;
e)    to receive donations, subscriptions, legacies and gifts of all kin  for the promotion of
its objects, and to apply the same and all profits and income derived therefrom and
from any other sources of income for the objects of the company;
f)    to employ with or without remuneration such officers, servants and other persons as
the company may think fit, for the carrying out of its objects;
g)    to undertake and execute any charitable trust or any agencies which may seem direcdy
or indirectly conducive to the object of the company, and
h)    to do all such things as are incidental or conducive to the attainment of its object.
PROVIDED THAT:
The Agency's objects shall not extend to the regulation or relations between workers and
employers or organizions of workers and organizations of employers.
4.    The income and prcperty of the Agency shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects of the Agency, as set forth in this Memorandum of Association and no portion thereof
shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise
howsoever, by way of profit to the Members of the Agency.
PROVIDED THAT:
a)    nothing herein contained shall prevent the payment in good faith of remuneraon to
any officers or servants of the Agency;
b)    no member of the Agency shall be appointed to any salaried office of the Agency or
any office of the Agency paid by fees and that no remuneration or other benefit in
money ,r monies worth shall be given by the Agency to any member except
repayment of out-of pocket expenses.



51                    ~~~ANNSY3
S1                            PPag 2 of 2
S.    No addition, altetaton or a      shall be made to or in the provisions of the
Memorandum or Articles of Aswo on of the time being in force unless the same hae bee
previoudy submitted to and approved by the Goverament of the Republic of lTe Gambia.
6.     he life of die Agency shal be 99 years. It may however be dissolved as  on as its
objectve have been achieved.
7.    Iho liability of the Members is limited.
8.    Every mmber of the Agency undertakes to contribute to the asset of the Agency In the even
of the same beig wound up during the time that he is a Member, or withn  one year
aewards. for payment of the debts and liabilities of the Agency contracted before he ceas
to be a Membr, and of the cost charges and expenses of wiig up, and for the adjusmet
of the rights of the contributries amongst themselves such amount as may be required not
exceeding one thousamd dalasis.
9.    Ifupon the winding up or dissolutionof the Agency there remains, after the satsfactonof all
its debts and liabilities, any property whatoever, the same shall be given or ransfrred to the
Govenment of the Republic of The Gambia.
WE, the seeal persons whose names and addresses are subscried are desirous of being forned into
a Compan in pursuance of this Memorandum of Association.
DATE) this         day of                      1993
Witness to the above signatur



ANNERA 
52                                  Page I of 9
THE COMPANIES ACT, CAP. 95:01 COMPANY LIMIED BY GUARANTEE
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION OF THIE GAMBIAN AGENCY FOR THE MANAGEMENT
OF PUBUC WORKS (GAMWORKS)
1.    In these Articles:
the *Act" means the Companies Act 1955;
these "Articles" mean these Articles of Association, and the rules of the Agency from time to
time in force;
the 'Seal' means the Common Seal of the Agency;
"Secretary' means any person appointed to perform the duties of the Secretary of the Agency;
the NAgency' means the above-named Company;
'Member" means a person who is for the time being, a member of the Agency under the
provision of Article 4 thereof;
"General Meeting' means a meeting of the members for the time being of the Agency;
"'Month" means calendar month;
"the office" means the Registered Office of the Agency; and
"Project" means any project delegated to the Agency for execution by Government or other
public authority.
MBEMBERS
2.    The members of the Agency shall be non-profit making corporate bodies and the subscribers
to the Memorandum of Association shall be the founding members.
3.    The number of members with which the Agency proposes to be registered is 3, but the
members in a General Meeting may from time to time register an increase of members.
4.    Application of membership by a corporate body shall be submitted in writing by an official of
hat body.
5.    The members in a General Meeting shall accept or reject applications for membership
submitted to it by a two/thirds majority vote of its members, taking into consideration the
strict requirement that only corporate bodies whose past or present activity or experience has
a connection with the Agency's purpose may be members of the Agency. Membership shall
take effect upon notification in writing to the interested party by the Secretary and following
payment of the new member's dues.
6.    Individuals or organizations that have rendered outstanding service to the Agency may be
honorary members. They will be exempted from payment of dues by the Annual Meeting,
whose sessions they may attend but without entidement to vote.
LS OF CAPACM AS MEMB
7.    Capacity as member of the Agency shall be lost upon:
a) dissolution;
b)    resignation, duly notified to the Chairperson; and
c)    removal by extraordinary resolution of the Agency passed at a General Meeting of



53                                 AN
Page 2 of 9
which notice showing the intention to propose a resolution in that behalf has been duly
given to the member concerned.
8.    Evey new member of the Agency shall either sign a written consent to become a member or
sign the register of members on becoming a member.
GENERAL MENGS
9.    Ite members of the Agency shall in each year hold a general meetlng as its Amnal Generl
Meeting in addition to any other msetings in that year, and shall specify the meeting as such
in the notices calling it; and not more than fifteen months shall elapse between the daft of one
Annua General Meeting of the Agency and that of the next.
Pwvided that so long as the Agency holds its first Annual General Meeng within eighteen
months of its Incorporation, it needs not hold it in the year of its incorporation or In the
following year. The Annual General Meeting shall be held at such time and place as the
members shall appoint.
10. All Generd Meetings other than Annual General Meetings shall be called extraordinary
general meetings.
11.   The members may, whenever they think fit, convene an extraordinary general meeting, and
extmaordinary general meetings shall also be convened on such requisition or, in defult, may
be convened by such requisitionists, as provided by Section 128 of the Act. If at any time
there are not within The Gambia sufficient members capable of acting to form a quorum, any
members or any two members of the Agency may convene an extrrdinary general meeting
in the same manner as nearly possible as that in which meetings may be convened by the
members.
12. All business shall be deemed special that is transacted at an extraordinary general meeting,
and also all that is transacted at an annual general meeting, with the exception of the
consideration of the accounts, balance sheets, and the reports of the Directors and Auditors,
the election of Directors in the place of those retiring.
13. No business shall be transacted at any general meeting unless a quorum of members is present
at the time when the meeting proceeds to business; save as herein otherwise provided, three
members present in person shall be a quorum.
14.   If within half an hour from the tme appointed for the meeting a quorum is not present, the
meeting, if convened upon the requisition of members, shall be dissolved; in any other case it
shal stand adjourned to the same day in the next week, at the same time and place, or to such
other day and at such other time and place as the members may determine, and if at the
adjourned meeting a quorum is not present within half an hour from the time appointed for
the meeting the members present sball be a quorum.
15.   The Chairperson of the Board of Directors shall preside as chairperson at every general
meeting of the Agency, or if there is no such Chairperson, or if he shall not be present w iin
fifteen minutes after the time appointed for the holding of the meeting, the members present



ANNEX-4
54                               Page 3 of 9
shll elect one of their members to be Chairperson of the meeting. The Secretary to the
Board of Directors shall be the secretary of the general meetings.
16.   If at any meeting no director is willing to act as Chairperson or if no director is present
within fifteen minutes after the time appointed for holding the meeting, the members present
shall choose one of their members to be Chairperson of the meeting.
17.   The Chairperson may, with the consent of the members adjourn any meeting at which a
quorum is present (and shall if so directed by the meeting), but no business shall be transacted
at any adjourned meeting other than the business left unfinished at the meeting from which the
adjournment took place. When a meeting is adjourned for thirty days or more, notice of the
adjourned meeting shall be given as in the case of an original meeting. Save as aforesaid it
shall not be necessary to give any notice of an adjournment or of the business to be transacted
at an adjourned meeting.
OTE Al EL MEENGS
18.   At all General Meetings a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be decided on a show
of hands by a majority of the members present in person and entitled to vote, and unless
before or upon the declaration of the result of the show of hands a poll be demanded in
wriing by the Chairperson or by at least three members present in person or by proxy and
entitled to vote, and unless a poll be so demanded a declaration by the Chairperson of the
meeting that a resolution has been carried, or has been carried by a particular majority, or
lost, or not carried by a particular majority, shall be conclusive, and an entry to that effect in
the mimnte book of the Association shall be conclusive evidence thereof, without proof of the
number or proportion of the votes recorded in favor of or against such resolution.
19.   If a poll be demanded in manner aforesaid, it shall be taken at such time and place, and in
such manner, as the Chairperson of the meeting shall direct, and the result of the poll shall be
deemed to be resolution of the meeting at which the poll was demanded.
20.   No poll shall be demanded on the election of a Chairperson of a meeting, or on any question
of adjournment.
21.   In the case of an equality of votes, either on a show of hands or at the poll, the Chairperson
of the meeting shall be enited to a further or casting vote.
22. Ihe demand of a poll shall prevent the continuance of a meeting for the transaction of any
business other than the question on which a poll has been demanded.
23. No member shall be enftided to vote at any general meeting unless all monies presently
payable by it to the Agency have been paid.
ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT ORGANS OF THE AGENCY
24.   The Administrative and management organs of the Agency shall be:
a)    the Board Meeting; and
b)    the Director General.



55                                   ANNIXA
Page 4 of 9
ON  QOF BOARD
25.   Tie Board shall be made up of all such persons not exceeding three as the members of the
Agency who have paid their dues -nay nominate.
26.   The directors shall also be reimbursed all travelling, hotel, and other expenses properly
incurred by them in attending and returning from meetings of the Directors or any Committee
of the Directors or general meetings of the Agency or in connection with the business of the
Agency.
FUNClIONS OE THE JQAE
27.   The Board shall convene in regular session in April of each year, and at such other times
considered necessary. Fifteen days prior to the date set, the members of the Board shall
receive notification of the meeting from the Chairperson or the Director General.
The agenda shall be stated on the notices of meeting. Special sessions of the Board Meeting
may be called at the request of at least half of its members, or at the request of the Director
General.
28. The Board shall elect a Chairperson from among its members, which for this purpose shall
mean the physical persons present at the start of each session, by simple majority of votes
cast. The Chairperson thus elected shall remain in office until the next Board Meeting. No
Chairperson may serve two consecutive terms. The Director General cannot serve as
Chairperson of the Board Meeting.
29.   Resolutions of the regular Board Meeting shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the
members present or represented. In the event of an equality of votes, the Chairperson shall
have a casting vote. For resolutions to be valid, two-thirds of the Board's members shall be
present. However, if this quorum is not achieved, the Board Meeting may re-convene 15 days
later, following a second notice, at which time, it may validly adopt resolutions by simple
majority of members. A member may be given a written proxy to another member to
represent him at Board Meetings.
30.   When the Board Meeting convenes in special session, a two-thirds majority of the members
present or represented shall be required for resolutions to be adopted.
POWES AND DUTIES OF DIRECTORS
31.   The Board shall be the supreme organ of the Agency and may pay all expenses incurred in
promoting and registering the Agency, and may exercise all such powers of the Agency as are
not, by the Act or by these articles, required to be exercised by the Agency in general
meeting, subject nevertheless to the provisions of the Act or these articles; regulations, being
not inconsistent with the aforesaid provisions, as may be prescribed by the Agency in general
meedng and such agreements and procedures as may be agreed with Government for the
execution of its projects provided that the Agency in general meetings shall invalidate any
prior act of the Board which would have been valid if that regulation had not been made.



ANNEX4
56                                  Page S of 9
32.    The directors shall cause minutes to be made in books provided for the purposes:
a)    of all appointments of officers made by the Agency;
b)    of the names of the Directors present at each meeting of the Directors and of any
committee of the Directors;
c)    of all resolutions and proceedings at all meetings of the Agency, and of the Directors,
and of committees of Directors and every Director present at any meeting of directors
or committee of Directors shall sign his name in a book to be kept for that purpose.
33.   The Board shall determine and set the guidelines necessary for accomplishment of the
Agency's corporate purpose:
a)    It shall appoint and remove the Director General;
b)    It shall appoint an auditor and approve the Agency's accounts;
c)    It shaU approve the Staff Service Rules; and
d)    It shall accept or reject the general and financial report prepared each year by the
Director General.
Excluding the foregoing, the Board shall delegate all its powers to the Director General, who
shall be responsible for reporting to it bi-monthly on the Agency's activities, using the
reporting format shown in the Agency's Manuals of Procedures.
D_ISUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
34.   The office of director shall be vacated if a Director:
a)    without the consent of the members in general meeting holds any other office of profit
under the Agency; or
b)    becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or composition with his creditors
generally; or
c)    becomes prohibited from being a director by reasons of any order made under this
Act; or
d)    becomes of unsound mind; or
e)    resigns his office by notice in writing to the Agency; or
I)    ceases to be a director by virtue of this Act; or
g)    is directly or indirecdy interested in any contract with the Agency and fails to declare
the nature of his interest in manner required by this Act.
35.   Tue Board Meeting shall appoint the Director General by a majority of two-thirds of its
members, in accordance with a selection procedure instituted by the Government. The
Director General shall meet the requirements of competence and integrity set for the
performance of his function.
36.   In the evet of serious failure to perform his obligations, the Director General shall be
removed by resolution of the Board adopted by a two-thirds majority of the members present
or represented excluding the Director General, who may not participate in the voting. The
Chaiperson shall notify the Director General of his removal by registered letter. At the same
session, and before any other business is conducted, the Board shall appoint an interim



57                                   ANNEX4
Page 6 of 9
Director General by majority resolution, as specified In the first paragraph of this Articles.
kWAL STATUS QF TM DlRECIOR GENERAL
37.   The Director General appointed by the Board shall be bound to the Agency under a contract
of service that shall be approved under the same conditions as apply to his appointment.
POWER$ OF THE DIRECTOR GENERAL
38.   Subject to the powers explicitly assigned to the Board, the Director General within the bounds
set by these Memorandum and Articles of Association, and the agreements concluded by the
Agency, shall have such powers as are necessary to ensure the proper operation of the
Agency and performance of the responsibilities assigned to him by the Board.
39.   Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing the Director General:
a)    may contract with outside specialized consultants for work that he deems necessary for
the performance of the different tasks assigned to him;
b)    shall have full responsibility for the funds placed at his disposal;
c)    shall keep accounts in accordance with general accepted accounting standards and
uniforndy adopted practices;
d)    shall arrange and be responsible for the appointment of the Agency's personnel;
e)    shall authorize expenditures, and sign such contracts and agreements as are relevant to
the performance of his functions;
f)    shall manage the Agency with due attention to the Manual of Procedures; and
g)    shall ensure proper application of the Staff Service Rules.
40.   The Director General may from time to time and at any time by power of attorney appoint
any company, frm or person or body of persons, whether nominated directly or indirecty by
the Directors, to be the Attorney or Attorneys of the Agency for such purposes and with such
powers, authorities and discretion (not exceeding those vested in or exercisable by the
Director General under these articles) and for such period and subject to such conditions as
he/she may think fit, and any such powers of attorney may contain such provisions for the
protection and convenience of persons dealing with any such attorney to delegate all or any of
the powers, authorities and discretion vested in him.
41.   AU cheques, promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange and other negotiable instruments, and
all receipts for monies paid to the Agency, shall be signed, drawn, accepted, endorsed, or
otherwise executed, as the case may be, in such manner as the Director General shall
determine, subject however to any special arrangements entered into by the Agency for the
execution of any project.
SECRETARY
42.   The Director General shall be the Secretary to the Board of Directors for such term of his
appointment as Director General and shall provide secretariat services and prepare minutes of
the Board Meeting.



58                                  ANNEX
Page 7 of 9
43.   A provision of the Act or these Articles requiring or authorizing a thing to be done by a
Director and the Secretary shall not be satisfied by its being done by or the same person
acting both as director and as, or in place of, the Secretary.
SEAL
44.   'he directors shall provide for the safe custody of the Seal, which shall only be used by the
authority of the directors or of a committee of the directors authorized by the directors in that
behalf, and every instrument to which the seal shall be affixed shall be signed by a director
and shall be countersigned by the Secretary or a second director or by some other persons
appointed by the Board for the purpose.
OIBEL SIAF
45.   The Director General shall submit to the Board Meeting, for its approval, the organization
chart of the Office of the Director General, which shall include the technical, administrative
and financial services required for the Agency to perform its assigned functions. The Board
shall prescribe and/or adopt Staff Service Rules which shall apply to and bind the staff of the
Agency and which shall be an annex to the Articles of Association.
RQURCES
46.   The Agency's resources shall comprise:
a)    the annual dues of its members, initially set at D1,000 payable prior to January 31 of
each year by payment into the Agency's bank account;
b)    subsidies, grants, requests or gifts from the Government, public authorities or public
interest associations, or from any foreign organization or State, within limits
compatible with current legislation;
c)    contributions by beneficiaries of the sub-project managed by the Agency;
d)    the proceeds of services rendered in connection with the execution of works consistent
with the Agency's objectives;
e)    the proceeds of investment of available funds.
ACCOUNT
47.   The Director General shall cause proper books of account to be kept with respect to;
a)    all sums of money received and expended by the Agency and the matters in respect of
which the receipt and expenditure takes place;
b)    all sales and purchases of goods by the Agency; and
c)    the assets and liabilities of the Agency.
Proper books shall not be deemed to be kept if there are no such kept books of accounts as
are necessary to give a true and fair view of the state of the Agency's affairs and to explain
its transactions.
48.   The books of accounts shall be kept at the registered office of the Agency or, subject to this
Act, at such place or places as the Director General thinks fit, and shal2 always be open to the
inspection of the Board or appointed Auditor.



59                                  ANE  4
Page 8 of 9
49.   lbe Board shall from time to time in accordance wih this Act cause to be prepared and to be
laid before the Board in general meeting such income and expenditure account, balance
sheets, group accounts (if any. and reports as referred to in this Act.
50.   A oopy of every balance sheet (mcluding every document required by law to be annexed
thereto) which is to be laid before the Board in general meeting together with a copy of th
auditor's report, shall not less than twenty-one days befoe the date of the meeting be sent to
every member of, and every holder of debentures of, the Agency. Provided that this ardtle
shall not require a copy of these documents to be sent to any person of whose addrss the
Agency Is not aware or to more than one of the joint holders of any debenue.
51.   Auditors shall be appointed and their duties regulated in accordance with the Act and those
laid out in the Manual of Procedures.
52.   A wdce may be given by the Agency to any member/director either personally or by sending
it by post to him to his registered address, or (if he has not registered address witin The
Gambia) to the address, if any, within Ihe Gambia supplied by him to the Agency for the
giving of notice to him. Where a notice is sent by post, service of the notice shall be deemed
to be effected by properly addressing, pre-paying and posting a letter containg the notice,
and to have been effected in the case of a notice of a meeting at the expiration of twenty-four
hours after the letter containing the same is posted and in any other case at the time at which
the letter would be delivered to the ordinary course of post.
53.   Notice of every Member or Board general meeting shall be given in any manner hereinaftr
authorized to:
a)    every member who has supplied to the Agency an address within The Gambia for the
giving of notices to them;
b)    every person being a legal personal representative or a trustee in bankruptcy of a
member where the member but for his death or bankraptcy would be entitled to
receive notice of the meeting; and
c)    the auditor for the time being of the Agency.
IN
54.   Every member of the Board and every servant of the Agency shall be indemnified by the
Agency and it shall be the duty of the Board, out of the funds of the Agency, to pay all costs,
loses and expenses which any such person may incur or become liable for by reason of any
contract entered into, or act or thing done by him in good faith in the course of his duties,
and the Board may give to any such person who has incurred or may be about to incur any
liability at the request or for the benefit of the Board such security by way of indemnity as it
may think proper.



60                                      -
Page 9 of 9
55.   Claum 7 of the Memoandum of Association relating to the winding up and dissolutio of the
Assocaton shall hav effect as if the provisions thereof were repeated in these presents.
56.   Ths Manual of Procedures and the Staff Sevice Rules are hereby incorporated as being part
of ihese acles.
NAMES, ADD SES ANI) DESCRIPTIONS OF SUBSCRIBERS
DATED ths        day of                     1993
Witness to the above signature
Anacbmens:          Appendix I to Articles of Association:
Mamnal of Procedures
Appendix 2 to Articles of Association:
Staff Service Rules



ANNX4
Appendix 1 to A&9lte of A o
61                                 Page 1
GAMWORK'S MANUAL OF PROCEDUIES
Table of Contents
PREABLE             GENERAL ETHICAL PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO THE
AGENCY'S ACTIVrIES
SectEon I    Objectives of the Agency
Secton S     Working principles
Section M    Conficts of interest
Section IV   Code of public behavior to be observed by Agency staff members
CHAPTER I           PROCEDURES APPLICABLE TO PROJECTS EXECUTED BY
THE AGENCY
Seedon I     Ptocedures applicable to the submission of projects by
beneficiaries
(A)   Beneficiaries
(B)   Data to be fuished when a project is submitted
(C)   Eligibility criteria
(D) Project appraisal
(E)   Relations with beneficiary during project appraisal
(F)   Notice of approval or rejection of a project
(G)   Beneficiary's right of appeal
(H) Signature of the Agreement Delegating Project Authority
Secton H     Procedures for works classification and contractor registration and
prequalification
(A)   Works classification
(B) Registration of contractors
(C)   Review of applications for registration
(D) Reregistration and downgrading
(E) Rights of registered enterprises



ANYE A
AgwpndIx 1 to Articles of
62                                  Page 2
Section m    Procedures for awarding contracts for works and services
(A)   General
(B) Standard procedure when the estimated price of a contramt
for works is less than D3 million
(1)    Bidding document
(2)    Submission of bids
(3)    Eligibility of bidders
(4)    Opening of bids, bid evaluation, award of contract
(C)   Procedure for contacts for works on which there are
fewer than five bidders or which are priced between D2
million and D3 million.
(D)   International bidding on contracts for works when the
estmated price is over D3 million
(E)   Use of consultants
Section IV    Studies and works supevision
(A)   Studies
(B)   Works supervision
(1)    Progress reports and consistency with contct
(2)    Works supervision
(C)   Selection of consultants
(D)   Monitoring of consultants
(E)   Provisional acceptance - verifications
(F)   Final acceptance
(G)   Remuneration of consultants
(H)   Direct works supervision by the Agency
Section V    Environment Impact Assessment Form for subprojects
(A)   General
(B)   Procedures
CHAPTER I ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES AND MANAGEMENT OF AGENCY'S
FUNDS
Section I    Accounting system for contracts and disbursements
(A) Commitments
(B)   Presentation of invoices
(C)   Checking of invoices
(D)   Authorization of payments
(B)   Signature of checks and payment orders



AN  
APpend I to Articles of ANociation
63                                Page 3
(F)   Closure of contract
Section It    Manaement of Agency funds
(A)   Principle of the advace account
(B)   Certified statements of expendmre
(C)   Filing of supporting documentation
(f)   Replenishment procedures
CHAPTER m  OBLIGATIONS OF THE AGENCY IN THE EXERCIr,QP OF T
ACTIVIIE
Section I    Activities reports
(A)   Reporting periods
(B) Information to be furnished by the Technical Department
(C)   Information to be furnished by the Administative and
Financial Department
(D)   SpecW information
(E)   Timetable for report preparation and submission
Section U    Monitoring the Agency
(A) Financial and management audits
(B) Specific obligations of various Agency departments
at the time of the financial and management audits
(C)   Conduct of employees in relation to financial and
management auditors
AXendices
Appendix 1.1  :     Sample Agreement Delegating Project Authority
Appendix 1.2  :     Sample Agreement for Using Equipment
Appendix 2   :      Sample Contract for Works
Appendix 3.1  :     Sample Contract for Design/Study
Appendix 3.2  :     Sample Contract for Works Supervision
Appendix 4.1  :     Sample Agency's Activity Report
Appendix 4.2  :     Sample Environment Impact Assessment Form for subprojects
Appendix 5.1  :     Terms of Reference for Financial and Management Audit
Appendix 5.2  :     Terms of Reference for Technical Audit



ANA 4
Appendix 1 tg Articles of Asoction
64                                 Page 4
PREAMsLE
GENERAL W   rICAL PRINCILES
APPICABLE TO THE AGENCY'S ACTIVITIS
Secion I     Objectives of the Agency
(A) General objectives
The principal objectives of The GAMBIAN AGENCY FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF
PUBLIC WORKS - GAMWORKS (hereafter referred to as the Agency', are as follows:
(1)   create, at least temporarily, and as rapidly as possible, a significant number
of new jobs, principally in the urban areas;
(2)   through execution of the works financed by the project, improve the skills
of the workers employed, the competitiveness of the contracting firms
carrying out the works, and the efficiency of the public institutions involved,
thereby developing the economy's capacity to respond to opportunities for
susined employment after project completion;
(3)   demonstrate the possibility of expanding the sphere of application of labor-
intensive methods, and develop procedures that could be used by the public
sector in pursuing activities of the same type; and
(4)   execute works whose economical and social utility is assured.
(B)   Specifc objectives
In the pursuit of the above general objectives, the Agency's specific objectives are:
(1)   avoid increases in civil service staff;
(2)   reconcile cost restrictions, visibility of project implementation structure, and
measurable cost-effectiveness of implementation procedures; and
(3)   put in place procedures that, while transparent and overseeable, are
nonetheless simple, expeditious and flexible, to be followed in project
identification and appraisal, procurement operations, and the processing of
contrictor payments.
Seion i      Worklng prindples
Staff members of the Agency are joindy and severally required to exercise their discretion
with reference to the following principles:



ANNE 4
Appendix 1 to Articles of Assodato
65                                Page 5
(A)   Independence
Only the LDirector General is authorized to issue instructions, either direcdy or through
channels, to Agency staff. The Agency's relations with the authorides are governed by a Framework
Agreement concluded between the Government and the Agency. No authority externa to the Agency
may invoke, vis-a-vis the Agency's activities, any prerogatives other than those deriving explicitly
from the Agency's contractual commitments under the above-mentioned Framework Agreement or
from legislative or regulatory provisions under ordinary law applicable to legal persons operating
under private law.
(B)   Imprtiality
The Agency may not practice any form of discrimination or preferent  treaument in its
relations with third paries, be they beneficiaries of Agency activities or suppliers to the Agency of
goods or services, or persons or institions involved in any way in the Agency's activities or the
results of those activities. The Agency shall exclusively apply the decision making and selection
procedures described In the present manual.
(C)   Cost-ffectveness
Maximum cost-effectiveness, in relation to the general objectives set forth in Section I(A),
should always be sought in decision making at all levels within the Agency and in the practical
application of its procedures.
(D)   Ecnomy
Subject to the above-mentioned principle of cost-effectiveness, costmh imiation
should be a constant concern of the Agency and of each member of its staff. In particular, no
considerations based on prestige may be adduced to justify the use or procurement of resources or
capital equipment, or recourse to services, other than those strictly necessary to ensure the Agency's
cost-effective operation.
Section m    confcts Of Interest
Employees of the Agency may not, directly or through an intermediary, hold any
Interest in companies or exercise responsibilities in public or private insdtions having commerci
relations with the Agency or benefitting from its activities. They may not receive any remuneration,
commission or fee of any kind from such companies or institutions. All employees are reqired,
upon recruitment, to complete a statement showing all of their commiments, interests or holdings
likely to conflict with the above rule. They shall then have one month in which to divest themselves
of such commitments, interests or holdings. Compliance with this obligation is an express condition
of permanent employment.



ANNEX4
Appendlx 1 to Articles of Assoiatio
66                                Page 6
Sedton IV    Code of public behavior to be observed by Agency staff members
Under its agreement with the Government, the Agency ls required to perform a public
service. aS employees are accordingly under an obligation to observe confidentiaity, impartiality
and discipline similar to that required of civil servants. Employees may not openly criticize their
superiors or the government authorities in public. Nor may they, in the perfomance of their
functions, engage in political or religious propaganda. Agency employees are required to observe
absolute impartiaity. They are expected to accord equal treaUnent to the users of the public service
provided by the Agency, namely the beneficiaries of works or operations, and the contractors.
Agency employees are furthermore required to demonstrate the loyalty to Governnent demanded of
public service concessionaires.



AM 
AenIdlx 1 to Arti    of Assciation
67                                 Page 7
CHAFFER I PROCEDURESAP PUCABL;ETO PROJECSEXECUTEDBYYTIEAGENCY
Secton I     Procedures applicable to the submission of projects by beneficiaries
(A)   lenefidaries
The term 'beneiciary" sl apply to any public instittion or autority that publicly
owm works being executed by the Agency. An institution or authority shall acquire the statps of
beeficary once the Agency, observing the procedures descrbed below, acceps a project propd
by, and at the initative of, such institution or authorty. 'he rights and obligations attached tb such
beneiciary staews sall be set out, for ech project, in an Agemet Delegati  Projec Autrity.
Ibe Stautes of the instition or authority concerned shall have w bearing on its eligiblity for
be ye fel status; on the other hand, the capability of such insdtution or authority to ensu
satisfcoy upkeep of the works and to use them efficiently once they are operational is among the
prject appsal criteria (see D (10) below).
(I)   Project submission by fte benefciar
The beneficiary Is required to submit to the Agency an application packapg comprising, as
decrbd In the "Beneficiary form' and the "Project forme, the following iems:
I!) - Inonaon on thie benefciar
(a) -  precise identification of beneficiary: status, area of actvity, fnctions and
duties, headquarters or address, telephone number, name of person in carge
Of the project, name and capaciy of the person authorized to sign the
Agreement Delegating Project Authority;
(b) -  amwal budgets of the insdtution over the last three fiscl yars: investm
operations; percentage of each of the two sections of that budget allocated to
the services involved in the project being submitted;
(c) -  nate and distribution of the institudon's fiancid resour   (e.g. diect
taxation, invoicing for services, Governmt budgetary appropriatis);
(2) -    onihe We   submitted
(a) - identiflcation of project, brief description, location (site plan);
(b) -  situation without project (present status of the area and evolution wut
project);
(c) - brief description of the project content: components, description of wodrk
to be executed, proposed phases of execution;



-~-
68                                Pape8
(d) -  project justification: brief quantitative and quaitative  m_    of the
project's expected advantages or benefits;
(e) -  stage of completion of the preliminary studies andlor  g  desps;
expected date of fiufilmemt of all the technical conditons to be met prio to
start-up;
(f) -   copy of available engineering designs; and
(e) -  estimated project cost and summary breakdown of that cos by Item -
materials (ocal and imported materials), labor, capital goods, other cost-
and, as appropriate, by phase.
(C)   Eligibility criteria
To be eligible, a project shall meet the following conditions:
(1) -  it shall fall within the list of classified works mentioned in Secn U of th* Mad
of Procedures;
(2) -  the beneficiary shall have the financial and technical capability to make its mdatory
contribution to the project financing, ensure upkeep of the works once compleed,
and maintain the equipment installed
(3) -  the share of labor costs (employer's contributions included) should be no l.s ta
20% of the esdmated tota project cost;
(4) - the total cost shall be less t1ean the balance of available Agency funds;
(5) - the start of construction shall be scheduled within three months;
(6) -  the cost of actvities prior to the start of constuction should be no Is. than 10% of
tie esmated total project cost;
(7) -  the average duraon of jobs created by project execution should be no low e a two
weeks;
(8) -  there should be at least two enterprises registered widt the Agency (Section 11) a
being qualified to perform work in the geographic area of execudon of the projct;
(9)-  it shall be possible to have the necssary equipment ready at the worklt by
comencement date at no additional cost;
(10) - there shall be no overlapping with any other project for which fhiacg Is Wdy
secured;



AM 
Andlx 1 to Acle of Amohedon
69                                 Pge 9
(11) - the project shall be consisten with the investment program of the Govamet and
local authority;
(12) - the project shall not have a potentily negative impact on the envronent; and
(13) - its economic and social utility shall be guaranteed on the basis, fir example, of a
cost-benefit, cost effectiveness or MRR analysis.
(D) Project appraisal
TO projects selected as described above shall be appraised and compad In order to prepare
the anmnal progm. The project appraisal shall be handled by the Agency according to the following
indicators:
(1)    Category of works
in order to reinforce the project objectves set forth in the Mual of Procedures, the
scorng reflects the priorities atached to the urgency assodatd with certain types of
sub-projects.
Type of Project                         # Points awarded
Rehabilitation/Restoration                    S
Periodic Maintenance                          4
Service                                       3
New construction                              2
Routine Matnance                               1
(2)    Share of labor cnsts in total esdmated project cost;
Since the project seeks to encourage employment oveall and the enation of
employment to unskilled labor, the labor conten of each project hould be
considered: the higher the share of labor cost, the better.
Share of labor costs in
total estimated project cost:           I Points awarded
more than 40%                                 5
>35% to40%                                    4
>30% to 35%                                   3
>25% to 30%                                   2
20% to 25%                                     1



Apnendlxn1 to Arteles of As.dactto
70                               Page 10
(3)   Tot esed  project cost;
Total estimated project cost            # Points awarded
250,000 D or less                             5
from 250,001 D to 500,000 D                   4
from 500,001 D to 750,000 D                   3
from 750,001 D to I million D                 2
more than 1 million D                          1
(4)    Quaniflable economic or soci benefits epected to result frm the works;
(a) For projects where the Internal Rate of Return (RR) has been calculated and is
available (required for revenue-generating sub-projects), the following scoring system
is recommended:
IRR (Economic Benefits)                # Points awarded
more than 30%                                 5
>25% to 30%                                  4
>20% to 25%                                  3
>15% to 20%                                  2
from 12% to 15%                               1
(b) For projects which are deemed of social value and no IRR is being calculated, the
following scoring system is recommended with the rationale of allowing maximum
flexibility to the Agency of adjusting the criteria to be consistent with annual
emphasis and objectives. In this particular case, the indicators are divided by target
groups (.e., women, school-age children, and different income levels).
Target group (!ioabl Benefits)}  Points awarded
To Women/School age children/                 4-5
Lowest income percentile
(geographical preference)
To Popn age 17-30/medium to lowest             1-3
percentile (geographical preference)



ANNEX-4
Apnendix 1 to Articles of Assoction
71                              Page 11
(5)    Community participation
The extent of participation of the local population in the Identification and design of
the proposed project, which could be assessed, inter alia, on the basis of records of
discussions with the local inhabitants or of requests submitted by them;
Extent of local Participation           N Points awarded
Local population is
involved in project identification
and maintenance                                S
Local population is involved
in project identification                      3
Local population is not involved
or criteria non relevant                       1
Based on the beneficiary's application, the Agency's Technical Department shall evaluate eah
of the indicators listed in part D above. A Project Selection Committee (PCs), comprising the
Technical Director, the Administrative and Financial Director, and two or more experts appointed
by the Director General shall meet on a regular basis to review the project applications placed on its
agenda by the Technical Department. Except in cases of force majeure, the time lag between
submission of a project and review of the applicstion by the Committee should not exceed one month.
The Technical Director shall chair the Committee's discussions and then submit the pertnent report
to the Director General for decision.
Projects with an estimated cost in excess of D2 million shall be submitted to IDA for approval
before being finally accepted. For this purpose, the Agency shall transmit the project application,
together with the minutes of the Committee meeting, to IDA. The portfolio of projects proposed for
implementation during t;e following year should be received by IDA for approval no later than the
beginning of the last quarter of the current calendar year.
Ihe Committee's discussions shall be recorded in minutes, which shall expressly state the
reasons for acceptance or rejection of the projects considered. These reasons shall be based on the
appraisal criteria, and, to the extent possible, on quantified indicators supporting those criteria.
The impact of the above criteria on project selection will be scrutinized each year and the
criteria possibly reassessed during the annual review.
(E) Relations with benefWciary during project appraisal
The Agency is authorized to request supplementary informaion or claification from
the potential beneficiary during project appraisal, and to set a deadline for reply consistent with the
Committee's project review timetable. Should it determine that the application submitted is clearly
incomplete, it may return it to the beneficiary with the request that a completed application be
resubmitted to the Agency in the same form as the original one. Failure by a beneficiary to respond



ANNEX-4
Apedix 1 to Articles of Associat
72                               Page 12
to requests for additional information by the fixed deadline may be grounds for rejection of its
project.
(F)   Notice of approval or rejection of a project
At the conclusion of each Committee meeting, the Director General shall notify each
of the beneficiaries of projects reviewed, in writing, of the Committee's decision on its project,
stating the essential reasons behind that decision in the case of rejection.
(G)   Beneficary's right of appeal
Ihe beneficiary of a project that is rejected may request a copy of the minutes of the
Committee meeting and the appraisal file on the project. Should the beneficiary dispute the decision,
it shall set out in writing its precise arguments for qusioning the decision's validity. Upon receipt
of this letter, the Director General of the Agency may decide to include the project in the agenda of
the next Committee meeting so that it may be reexamined. Nevertheless, he shall have sole discretion
on this matter, and rejection following a second Committee review shall be final.
(H)   Signature of the Agreement Delegating Project Authority
Final approval of a project shall be subject to the conclusion between the beneficiary
and the Agency of an Agreement Delegating Project Authority, a form of which is shown at
Appendix 1.1. The agreement shall be signed as soon as possible after the Committee meeting that
approved the project. If necessary, ancillary agreements shall be signed containing special provisions
governing the beneficiary's intervention in project execution; such agreements may cover, in
particular, the provision of equipment (see Appendix 1.2), execution by the beneficiary of certain
works to supplement those of the project, or participation by the beneficiary in works supervision.
The ancillary agreements shall be signed at the same time as the Agreement Delegating Project
Authority. They need to have been prepared during project appraisal and included in the application
reviewed by the Committee.
ITe beneficiary's mandatory contribution to the financing of the operation shall take
the form of an actual payment. For this purpose, it shal pay the regulatory percentage (10% during
the first year and 20% thereafter) of the estimated cost of the operation at the time of delegation of
project authority. The Agency shall not issue any service or works orders until it has received the
corresponding amount. In the case of a substantial cost overrun, the beneficiary's contribution shall
be adjusted either at the end of the operation or at the Agency's request.
Section II    Procedures  for works  classification  and  contractor  registration  and
prequalification
(A)   Works classifcation
Works qualifying for execution under the project shall be classified in two categories:
"works" projects and "service projects.



-A
Appendix I to Articles f
73                                Page 13
(1)   'Workg         , for which at least 65% of the funds are to be allocated, shaMl
comprise:
(a)    works for the drainage of low-lying areas, Including undergound pipes.
manholes, sumps, culverts and culvert heads, riprap, etc.
(O)    minor infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation wors (filling In of
gullies, repair of sidewalks, gutters and minor drainage works);
(c)    works similar to those in category (b) performed periodically by cw
workiag in shifts (running manenance of roads);
(d)    construction of simple buildings, development of public areas;
(e)   repair of large buildings: this category is subdivided by trade (coatng and
painting, carpentry, electrical work, roofing, minor mmsonry work);
(f)    demolition of unsanitary or unsafe buildings, with recovery of materials;
(g)   clearing of brush and earthworks (road shoulders, embankments, gablons)
matching preestablished profiles;
(h)    water and soil conservation works, protection and restoration wors;
(-)    tree planting and creation of green spaces.
(2)   'Sice prQjects, for which a maximum of 35% of the fimds wfll be allocated, shall
comprise:
(a)   cleaning of public property as and when required: removal of sand from
roads, cleaning of ditches and drainage gutters, special collecdons of
accumulated waste; and
(b)    works similar to those in category (a) performed periodically by crews
working in shifts.
(B)     ei         of contrators
Upon starting its activities, the Agency shall publicize its objectives and procedres
extensively through the press and radio, focusing in particular on the conditions to be met by a firm
desiring to carry out works for the Agency.
A comtractor may at any time apply for inclusion in the registur of firms qualified to
execute works filing into one of more of the ca.Vgories set out in Section 1.1. For this purpose,
the firm shall furmsh a dossier containing:



ANNX A
Ao=endlx 1 to Article of Associatio
74                                Page 14
(1)   the firm's business name, status, headquaruw,s, current  business registration
certificate, value of its assets and the name and address of the person authiodzed to
represent it;
(2)    a statemenr from a bank or insurance company confirming the intention to provide
necessary guatantees;
(3)    a statement from the firm certifying that it is not under any legal restrain to do
business;
(4)   the boundaries of tle geograph'i area within which the firm is willing to operate;
(5)    a reference list showing the categories of works executed by the firm; in respect of
which the firm is applying for registration; each reference shall be accompanied by
the following information:
(a)    brief description of the works and trades handled by the firm;
(b)    contracting pty and works executed;
(c)    aTrju!t and type of contract;
(d)    works completion period, from the time of the initi service order,
(e)    stats of works (in progress, completed, provisionally accepted, finally
accepted);
(f)    scheduled or actual works completion date;
(g)   status of contract settlement of potential disputes or not; and
(hi    a list of the equipment owned outright by the firm, leased or borrowed.
(C)   Reiew of applications for regstration
A Contractor Registration Committee (CRC) comprising the Director General of the
Agency, its Technical Director and its Administrative and Financial Director, shall examine
applications for registration received from contacting firms. It shall decide freely whether to accept
or reject them. Minutes shall be taken at each meeting. The Director General shall notify the fims
of the Committee's decision, giving its seasons in cases of rejection, within one month following
receipt of the application. A firm that has been rejected may not file a new application for the same
category untl sik montds have elapsed.
, 7



ANNE 4
Apendix 1 to Articles i Assoiation
75                                Page 1S
(D) Rergfistration, upgrading and downgrading
Upon completion or during the course of execution of works commined by the
Agency, the Agency may review the contracting firm's registration in order to expand or reduce the
list of works categories it is qualified to perform. The decision shall be taken and the result nodfied
following the same procedures as those used in the initial registration process, with the same
consequences.
Contractors that have carried out works for the Agency involving cost and/ar tim
overrn       excess of 30% of the initial estimates for the works under the contraa shai be
downgraded, unless the Agency finds such overms to lbe ,stified. In such cases, the possiity of
reregistration or upgrading may be reviewed after one yeei.
(E)   Rights of registered enterprises
Any firm which, at the time the bidding process is initiated, iS already registered to
do work in the pertinent geographic area, shall be invited by letter to pick up the bidding docmen
either at the Agency headquarters or from one of the Agency's designaed local representatives TMm
contractor may waive his right to bid on a contract without this aFeiiig hi3 registration status or the
rights attaching thereto.
Section III    odures for awarding contacts for works and services
(A)   Geneal
The Agency shall prepare the bidding documents, which should contain ai
information necessary for a prospective bidder to prepare a bid for the works to be execned. Ms
should generally include: the invitation to bid, instuctions to bidders, form of bid, form of draft
contract, special conditions of contract, technical specifications, bill of quanties, and drawin, as
well as all necessary annexes, such as the various forms of security. Ihe fees requested by
GAMWORK3 for the bidding documents should cover the production costs.
The bidding docments should be so worded as to pami and encourage compein,
and should set forth clearly and precisely the work to be cvrled out, the location of the work, the
schedule for completion, and the warrnty requirements as well as any other pertinent tem  and
conditions. In addition, they should, where appropriate, define the tests, standards and methods dtht
will be employed to judge the conformity of the works as perfonned with the specifications.
Drawings should be consistent with the text of the technical specifications. The bidding doam_et
should also specify any factors which will be taken into account in addition to price In eauating
bids, and how such factors will be quantified or otherwise evaluated. If bids based on alternative
designs, materials, completion schedules, payment terms, etc., are permited, conditions for their
acceptability and the method of their evaluadon should be expressiy stated.   Any additional
information, clarification, correction of errors or alteration of bidding documents should be se  to
each recipient of the origin  bidding docments in sufficient time before the date of bid
to enable biddes to take appropriate action.



ANNEA
Appendix 1 to Articles of Association
76                                Page 16
(1I) Standard procedure when the estimated price of a contract for works Is less than
D2 million
(1) Biddinglocumes. The bidding documents shall be prepared under the Agency's
responsibility, with technical assistance from the consultant (see Section MV). In
addition to the invitation to bid, they shall include:
(a)    a draft contract based on a standard form (see Appendix 2), including the
description, organization and location of the works, their expected duration,
the estimated contract price and the payment schedule;
(b)   the overall price breakdown, referring to the schedule of unit prices and to
the biUl of quantities,  this being the most impor=t  of the contract
documents; it should contain a precise description of the work and services
included in each of the tasks for which there is an individual price linked to
a reference unit (square meters, cubic meters, etc.);
(c)   estimated bill of quantities, together with measurements, works schedule, site
plans and any standard drawings needed. Ihe estimated amount given in the
draft contract should be the result of multiplying the estmated quantities by
the unit prices;
(d)   the General Provisions referred to in Appendix 2 of this Mamnu  of
Procedures, should include:
(wi) a list of criteria on which the Awards Committee will base its
selection after analyzing the bids;
(d)   date and place for submission of bids;
(il) date of the Awards Committee meeting;
(iv)   breakdown of quanities and, if appropriat, indicative unit price
furnished to bidders for information, with a note recommending that
they not copy these indiscrm y;
(v)   that, in the case of a technically qualified firm submittng a fully
documented bid 20% lower than the estimaed (by the cosultat)
total price, the Agency reserves the right to request the bidder
concerned for additional guarantee of performance;
(vi)  that a bidder whose bid is lower than 15% of the estimaed total
price or if a unit price is lower than 25% of the related indicative
unit price shall include in his bid all necessary elemen to justiy
such discrepancy; and



ANNEX 4
A ndix I to Articles of        ti
77                               Page 17
(vii) that in the event of technical or management inadequacy, the
contractor undertakes, if the Agency so deems necessary, to
participate in a technical assistance and management program
organized by the Agency.
Items (a), (b) and (c) shall, following any necessary amendment, become contract
documents; item (b) (overall price breakdown) shall take priority over the other documents, this being
expressly stated in the contract.
(2)   Submision of bids
Bids shall be submitted in the form shown in Appendix 2 of this Manual of Procedures,
sub-annex 1, signed by the firm's authorized representative and accompanied by three contract documents
(draft contract, schedule of prices, bill of quantities, with any amendments duly initialed. Bids are
required to be delivered in a sealed envelope by the established deadline.
Bids should contain:
(a)   the amount of any discount offered b y the firm on the estimated total price for
the works;
(b)   any proposed amendment to the indicative unit prices shown in the schedule;
(c)   any proposed amendment to the 4uration or planning of the works andlor to the
payments schedule; and
(d)   description of any proposed changes to the organization and planning of the
works, reflecting the quantities of works given in the estimated bill of quanltities.
All provisions of the contact or other bidding documents to which the bid does not
ptopose an amendment shall be regarded as having been accepted by the firm.
(3)   Migiil!U of biddm
Only firms listed in the registry of contractors qualified to execute works in the category
concerned shall be elig:._ to submit bids.
(4)    Opening of bids, bid evaluation, award of contract
(a)    B'id  -'n o. d         Thtime for the bid opening shouldbe the same as for
the latest delivery of bids or promptly thereafter. Bids should be opened at the
stipulated time, in public, i.e. bidders or their representatives should be allowed
to be present. The name of the bidder and total amount of each bid, and of any
alternative bids if they have been requested or permitted, should be read aloud



APnendx 1 to Articles of Asoc4iton
78                                Page 18
and rernrded when opened. Bids received after the time stipulated should not be
considered.
(b)    Clarifications or alterations of bids.   No bidder should be requested or
auihorized to alter his bid after the first bid has been opened. A bidder may be
asked to clarify a given point in his bid, for purposes of evaluation, but he
should not be asked or authorized to alter the substance or price of his bid after
the bid opening.
(c)    Process to be confidential. After the public opening of bids, information relatng
to the examination, clarification and evaluation of bids and recommendtons
concerning awards should not be disctosed to other persons not officially
concerned with this process until the award of the contract is announced.
(d)    Examination of bids.  Following the bid opening ceremony, the Awards
Committee should ascertain whether the bids (i) have been properly signed; (H)
are accompanied by the required securities; (iii) are substtally responsive to
the bidding documents; (iv) contain no material errors in computation; and (v)
are otherwise generally in order. If a bid is not substantially responsive, i.e. it
conins material deviations from or reservations to the terms, conditions and
specifications in the bidding documents, it should not be considered further. Ihe
bidder should not be permitted to correct or withdraw materW deviations or
reservations once bids have been opened.
(e)    Evaluation and com     -     of bid.   he purpose of bid evaluation is to
determine the cost of each bid and to compare bids on that basis. The bid price
read out at the bid opening should be adjusted to correct any aridtmetical errors.
If the overall price and any unit prices are, respectively, lower by more tn
15% than the esdmated total price or and by more than 25% than the indicative
unit prices, and the explanations given to justify these price discrepancies are not
acceptable, the bid should not be considered furher. ITe Awards Committee
should prepare a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of bids, setting
forth the specific reasons on which the recommendation is based for the award
of the contract.
(f)    Egiffcation gf bidders. 'he Awards Committee should determine whether
the bidder with the lowest bid has the capability and resources effectively to carry
out the contract concerned. The criteria to be met should be set out in the
bidding documents and if the bidder does not meet them, his bid should be
rejected.
(g)    Award of       . Contracts should be awarded within the period of the validity
of bids. A bidder should not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake
responsibilities for work not stipulated in the specifications or otherwise to
modify his bid.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1 to Articles of Assoclatio
79                                Page 19
(h)    Extension of validity of bids. An extension of bid validity, if justified by
exceptional circumstances, should be requested in writing from all bidders before
the expiration date. When an extension of bid validity period is requested,
bidders should not be requested or permitted to change the price or other
conditions of their bid. Bidders should have the right to refuse to grant such an
extension without forfeiting their bid security, but those who are willing to
extend the validity of their bid should be required to provide a suitable extension
of bid security.
(i)    Rejection of all bids. All bids should not be rejected and new bids invited on the
same specifications solely for the purpose of obtaining lower prices, except in
cases where the lowest evaluated bid exceeds the esfimated total price by a
substantial amount. In such cases, the Agency may, as an alternative to
rebidding, riegotiate with the lowest evaluated bidder (or failing a satisfactory
response, with the next lowest bidder) to try to obtain a satisfactory contract.
Rejection of all bids is also justified when bids are not substantially responsive
or there Is lack of effective competition. If all bids are rejected, the Agency
should review the causes justifying the rejection and consider making either
revisions in the specifications or modifications in the project, or both, before
inviting new bids.
(C)   Procedure for contracts for works on which there are fewer than five bidders or
which a-re priced between D2 and D3 milion.
In pree 'e cases where there are fewer than five bidders, or for any contract of which the
estimated cost is higher than D2 million and lower than D3 million, the procedures set out in (B) above
shall apply, but the Committee should submit its decision to IDA for approval before notiying the
successful bidder.
(D)   International bidding on contrcts for works when the estmated price is over D3
million.
In cases where the estimated contract price is over D3 million, procurement shall take
place in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' published
by the World Bank and IDA in December 1991.
(E)   Use of consultants
The procedure to be followed for the selection of individual consutas and/or consulting
firms is that described in the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants' published by the World Bank and
IDA in August 1981. Consultant contracts (for studies or works supervision) shall be governed by
Section IV of this chapter.



Am=
Appen  1 to Articles of Associatio
80                               Psge 20
Secion IV    Studies and worls supervision
(A)   Studies
Studies contracts shall be based on the form at Appendix 3.1 of this Manual of
Procedures.
(B)   Works supervsion
(1)    Pro      orts and consicy with contract accounting. The Technical Department
shall keep up-to-date field progress reports on each contract, based on the contractor's
montdy statements of the works. The field progress reports shall provide data for the
monthly reports provided by the Agency. A copy of each updated field progress report
shall be sent to the Adnisrative and Financal Department, which shall add It to the
conct file where disbursments on that paricular contract are recorded.
(2)    Wqd  servisi. The Agency shall provide direct supervision of the works only by
way of exception. The normal procedure shall be to entrust a consultant or a service
pwvider exter  to the Agency with performance of all of the tasks relative to
overseeing of the contractors and supervision of the works. A form of works supervision
cowact is atached at Appendi 3.2. The consultant appointed by the Agency shall carry
out the following tasks in paricular:
(a)    Before award of the contract:
Q)    preparation of the technical parts of the bidding documents in liaison
with the Technical Department; and
(ii)   participation, as observer, in the Awards Committee meetings;
(b)    During works construction:
(1)    ongoing supervision of the works thrugh a works overseer serving as
his permanent represwntatlve on the site;
(i)   weekly visits to the site with the contractor's representative to identfy
difficulties encountered, check on the quality of works in progress, and
give idl necessary instructions to ensure the continued cost-effectiveness
of the works. These visits should be written up in a brief report to be
inserted in the works inspection log;
(ii)   overseeing and cerdfication of statements of works; and
(iv)   perma    liaison with the contractor for any question concering works
execution.



ANN  4
Appendix 1 to Artleles of Assontim
81                                Page 21
(c)    Following completion of the works:
Technical assistance to the Beneficiary in connection with the provisional and
final acceptance of the works.
(C)   Selection of consultants
lhe Agency shall keep an index of consultants, with the following infornation on each
one:
(1)   identification (business name, address, telephone number) of the company;
(2)    nanme of the person in charge;
(3)   list of categories of works for which the company (or the individual expert) is qualified
to provide project management services;
(4)    boundaries of the geographic ara within which the institution may operate; and
(5)   inventory and brief evaluation of services already performed for the Agency.
'Te application procedures for inclusion in this list and the procedures to be adopted by
the Agency in examining applications are similar to those to be followed for contracor registration. Te
evaluation of consiltant proposals shall consider the price in a range from 20 to 40%. Technical crteria,
like the firm's general experience in the field (10 to 30%) and qualification and competence of peronnel
(10 to 30%) should als be used.
(D)   Monitoring of consultants
One of the essenial fnctions of the Technical Department shall be to monitor consultants
supevising works on the Agency's behalf. For this purpose, the Agency shall make unscht4'wled visits
to worksites, at which the consultant shall be present. The purpose of these visits shall be to ascetain
that the consultant is satisfactorily performing his contractual obligations. The evaluation of the
consultant's performance should be based exclusively on the trms of his contract, which shall include
the general obligation incumbent upon him to respect the rules of the trade.
(E) Provisional acceptance - verifications
The contractor shal notify the Technical Department of the date of completion of the
works. The Agency, if necessary represented by the consultant, shal then invite the contrctor to the
acceptance proceedings, which should take place as soon as possible. The verifications perfomed shdll
cover:
(1)    detemination that the works are fully or only partially completed, and of any
imperfctions or defects;



ANNEX 4
A,Men&ix 1 to Artichws of Asgciton
82                                Page 22
(2)   the Agency's representative, if necessary accompanied by the consultant, shall, with the
contractor's representative, draw up and sign a provisional certificate of acceptance;
(3)   should the contractor's representative refuse to sign, his refusal shall be noted on the
certificate. Based on the certificate, the Agency shall declare that the works are
provisionally accepted without reservations, or provisional'y accepted with reservations;
(4)   the Agency shall then notify the contactor of its decision, enjoining him to execute or
complete works omitted or only partially executed, and to make good any imperfections
or defects noted;
(5)   the Agency shall set a deadline by which the contractor is required to complete the works
concerned. Once that deadline has expired, the Agency shall be entitled to have the
works mentioned in the provisional certificate of acceptance carried out by a firm of its
choice at the expense and risk of the firm holding the contract; and
(6)   the balance of the payments due the contractor shall generally be paid at the time of
provisional acceptance, reduced by a certain proportion for works not executed or only
partally executed or for any imperfections or defeAs noted.
In the case of serious defects or imperfections, the Agency may refuse provisional
acceptan  and may issue a service order enjoining the coractor to demolish any works that are
defective or that do not cL form to the contract specification; and to redo them. T'e defects liability
period stipulated in the centract shall run from the time of pwevisional acceptance. During this period,
the contractor shall be put on notice by the Agency to execute the works it is required to execute under
guarantee. In the event of refusal or noncompliance by the contractor, the Agency shall be automatically
entitled to execute the works and to withhold from the guarantee all sums necessary for reimbursement
of the expenses incurred.
(F)   Final acceptance
Final acceptance shall be pronounced at the end of the defects liability period in a
certificate sent to the contractor. The Ager y shall then release the retention monies subject to execution
of the works incumbent upon the contractor under the guarantee. The beneficiary of the works may be
present at their final acceptance, the date of which shall be communicated by the Agency at least five
working days beforehand. The opinion of the Agency's representative shall nevertheless be the principal
factor in the decision to accept or refuse acceptance. However, any reservations on the part of the
beneficiary should also be included in the certificate of acceptance.
(G)   Remuneration of consultants
The amount paid to consultants for (i) design studies and (ii) supervision of the works
may not exceed respectively 5% of the cost of the works.



MANEX4
Appendix 1 to Articles of Assdatlon
83                               Page 23
(H)   Direc works supevision by the Agency
The Agency may, very exceptionally, decide to be its own consultant. Such decision shall
be taken by the Director General, at the proposal of the Technical Director, in the following
circumstances:
(1)   there is no consultant available on the Agency's list for the project concerned, and the
project cannot be postponed;
(2)   the project is simple enough to be supervised by the Technical Department; and
(3)   the project location is such that Agency staff would not have to make trips incompatble
with the performance of their regular tasks.
Section V    Procedures for Evronmental hnpact Assesment of subproject
(A)   GENERAL
The proposed approach to Enviromental Impact Assessment presened in this secton Is
beieved praccal and has the potential for being cost-effective. It is an integral part of the planing
prcess, initiated at project inception or for project revision. For the latter purpose. real alternatives will
be evaluated in a systematic manner. The methodology proposes an Environmental Checldist for
Decision making and a review procedure. The items of the check list have been idendfied as being the
key areas of environmental concern in the urban centers (Appendix 4.2 of the Mamnal of Procedures)..
The thrust of the proposed method is thai it gives a quantitative and qualitative measure
of the possible impact of a sub-project on the environment. After going through the checklist for Instace,
a project with the same number of positives (+ve) and negatives (-ve) has zero impact, whilst a project
with 10 +ves and 7 -ves has a net 3 +ves and a project with say 12 -ves and 8 +ves has a net impact
of 4 -ves. A neutral score (n) has no effect on the net score. The degree of negative or positive impact
of the projects can be ascertained from this approach; and a comparison between projects or alternave
designs of projects can be also devised.
(B) PROCEDURES
The simplified sample form is the basis for making environmental evaluation of
subprojects by GAMWORKS. It is subjected to further development and tmning by the Agency with time
and more field experience. The procedures outlined in Appendix 4.2 thereafter will be applied for every
subproject. The results of the environmental impact assessment will be summarized in the subproject
description.



ANNEXN4
Appefndi 1 to Articles of Association
84                                  Page 24
CHAPTE II ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES AND MANAGEMENT OF AGENCY'S FUNDS
Section I    Accounting system for contracts and disbursements
(A)   Comm _tments
The contract shall constitute the basic document for accounting of commitments and
disbursements. When a ccntract is signed, the Financial Department shall establish a contract payment
record [Project-Fonnr with an initial commitment equal to the contract price. As each payment is made,
its date and amount shall be noted on the contract payment record; at any given moment the undisbursed
portion of the amount committed shall be the difference between the initial commitment and the sum of
the payments already made.
(B)   Presentation of invoices
Unless otherwise provided in the contract, invoices shall be submitted monthly by the
cntractor. Each invoices shall be supported by a statement of works certified by the consultant. The
invoice shall show the costs, excluding taxes, of the work done, the amount of any withholding for the
mobilization advance and the total to be paid, and the pertinent reference to the accompanying
statement(s) of work. Invoices shall be dated and signed by the contractor's authorized representative.
(C)   Checking of invoices
The Technical Department shall verify the invoice and attached statements of work, cerfy
the service performed, and then transmit the file to the Financial Department for payment. The Financial
Department shall check the breakdown of the invoice against the undisbursed portion of the commment
shown on the contract payment record, and shall authorize the payment. Except in the event of duly
proven force rWeure, the total time that elapses between receipt of the invoice by the Technical
Department and payment to the contractor (or issuance of the payment order to the bank) shall not exceed
10 working days. Compliance with this rule shall be a factor in evaluation of the performance of Agency
staff concerned, as we'l as the performance of the Agency itself.
(D)   Authorizaton of payments
Authorization of a payment shall involve the following operations:
(1)   preparation of checks or payment orders for the net amount, exclusive of import duties
and sales taxes, to be paid to the contractor; and
(2)   recording of the payment in the contract payment record.
(E)   Signature of checks and payment orders
Checks and payment orders shall be signed by the Financial Director and countersigned
by the Director General of the Agency. Either one may delegate in writing the authority to sign on his
behalf. A photocopy of the signd check or payment order and, if signature authority has been delegated,
of the instument incorporating sluch delegation, shall be attached to the invoice before it is placed in the
fie of supporting accounting documentation kept by the Agency for use by the auditors.



Appndl I to Artls of Assoation
85                                  Page 25
(F)   Closure of contract
Upon final acceptance of the works, all retention monies or the balance thereof dshl be
released after execution of the work to be done before any reservations lodged at provsonal acnce
can be lifted. Ihe contract shall at that time be closed, and any undisbursed commitment voided.
Secton II      gement of Agency funds
(A)   Pil ple of the Spedal Acoount
One of the reasons for the creation of the Agen is to ensure prompt payment to
contractos, suppliers, consultants, and other service providers. To permk the Agency to sette all
payme  In a timely man, it shall have a Special Account in a commercial bank in The Gambia
requrn joint sigmture of the Director General of the Agency and its Adminisaive and F al
Dirctor.
T he Special Account shall be set up with funds advanced, at the Gov er s request,
by the insditon(s) financing the Public Works and Capacity Building Project. This advance shall be
calculated in such a manner as to cover approximately three months of payments by the Agency,
including one month as a safety reserve.
As soon as the cumulative payments reach or exceed one third of the amount of the initial
advance (on average every month), the Agency shall present to the financing instutions, through the
Finace Mistry, a request for replenishment in an amount equal to the payment made, supported by a
detaied staeme  of expenditure certified by the Director General of the Agency.
The supporting do aon shall be retained by the Agency and shall at all times be
avilable to the auditors and to the represenatives of the financial institutons and of the Fiae
Minsty.
Note: Funds advanced by the Government to GAMWORKS.
*     The equivalent of US$80,000 will by advanced by the Governmen  This amount will
be placed in an GAMWORKS's bank account, in a commercial bank, before the IDA
credit becomes effective.
*     GAMWORKS shWll be entitled to use these funds after signing from the Beneficiary of
any oeration an Agreement Delegating Project Authority and after receiving the
Goverment's agrement to pay for part or all of the Beneficiary's contribution to the
financing of the operation. The Agreement Delegating Project Authority shall speci
the estimad total cost of the operation (design, works or services, supervision, and
GAMWORKS's management costs), and the programmed sharing of these costs betweea
the Beneficiary, the Government, and IDA and other donors.
*     Periodically, GAMWORKS will ask the Government to replenish the advance, accorting
to actal use of the funds and to the program of works for the year.



ANIXA
Appendx 1 to Articles of Association
86                                   Page 26
In 1994, (JAMWORKS's management fees will be 10% of the cost of the works. This
perctage will be fixed every year on the basis of the estimated management costs and
of the esmae amount of workslservlces programmed for the year.
(5)   Certifed statements of expenditure
The certified statements of expenditure shall provide a detailed listing of all payments
wade with, for each one, specific reference to the supporting documentation (including filing code)
rtained by the Agency. Certified statements of expenditure shall be prepared under the responsibility
of the Financial Director. They shall be certified by the Director General of the Agency.
(C)   Fling of supporting documentation
The supporting docmntation for each payment (invoice and attached statements of work,
oopy of the signed check or payment order, and copy of instuments delegatig signature authority, if
apropria) shall be filed by a chronological numbering system. A computerized file of supporting
do_ amerAwou shall be kept and regularly updated. It should allow for document selection according to
the fllowing criteria (cross-referenced or not):
(1)    works category
(2)    name of project
(3)   name of contracting firm
(4)    date or time period
(5)    number of the replenishment request supported by the pertinent documentation.
(D)   Replenishment procedures
(1)   IDA funds. Ihe Director of the Agency shall route replenishment requests to IDA
through the Fmance Ministry. The date of transmittal shall be recorded by the Agency
with the identification nmber and date of the request. The Resident Representative of
the World Bank shall infom the Agency of the date of transmittal to headquarters of each
replenishment request. After a period of 15 workng days, if the replenishment has not
taken place, the Agency shall send a follow-up telex to the World Bank, primarily in
order to obtain the reference codes on the payment concerned. Upon receipt of this
information, he Agency shll alert the depository bank so that it may proceed to make
any necesary inquiries.
(2)    Other cofinanciers. (Possible provisions for other cofinanciers.) The Agency shall inform
IDA of all cofinancing accounts specifying clearly the relevant procedures for maintaining
these accounts and ensuring compliance with those procedures.



Appendix 1 to Articles of Associatdio
87                                  Page 27
CHAPt III    OBaGATIONS OF THE AGENCY IN THE EXERCISE OF mT
ACIVITPES
Secton I     Activities reports
(A)   Repotng periods
Before the end of the first week of each bi-monthly period, the Agency shall file an
activities report with the Government for the month just ended. A model reporting form is attached to
this section. Using a standardized summary format, it shall provide information on:
(1)   implementation of project selection procedures;
(2)   awarding of contracts for works;
(3)   signing of contracts;
(4)   disbursements by works category;
(5)    personnel employed by the contractors;
(6)    p--formance of contracts for services;
(7)   technical assistance services to contractors; and
(8)   contract performance level during execution of the works.
Eah activities report shall be signed by the Director General of the Agency.
(B)   Infomation to be funished by the Technical Department
The tables relative to items 1, 5, 7 and 8 of the activities report shall be prepared under
the responsibility of the Technical Director, who shall approve them before they are included in the
report. The tables shall rely particularly on the data shown on the daily worksheets, the weekly work
summaries and the monthly progress reports. All of these documents shall be the responsibility of the
consultant and of the Technical Department staff member responsible for the project in question.
The Technical Director shall send the Director General of the Agency brief comments
on each table, so that the latter may complete the section of the activities report set aside for "Director's
conment and observations."
(C)   Information to be furnished by the Administrative and Flnancal Department
The tables in the activities report that are not prepared under the responsibility of the
Technical Director shall be the responsibility of the Administrative and Financial Director (items 2, 3,
4 and 6), who shall approve them before they are included in the activities repcrtL Section MII of the
activities report, depicting the status of the Agency's revolving fumd, shall be prepared under the



AN4IN
AppendIx 1 to Articles  Asw   atini
88                                  Page 28
responsibility of the Admistrative and Financial Director, who shall offer comments on the Agency's
perforance In the area of maugement in ths *Director General's observations and commensw section.
(D)   Spe1al Informatlon
The Director Genaerl of the Agency shall personally monitor the quality of the
reviews and take all measures necessary to bring to the Government's notice any data
shedding lit on the cost-effectiveness of the Agency's performance in relation to the objectives set forth
In th preamble to this Manual.
Even though the activities report shall follow a standardized format, adjustments to it shall
be pemitted if fthese would reader a better accounting of the Agency's actual performance. The activities
rot fom amnexed to this section should be considered a description of the minimum informadon to
be fised and not as a rigid frmework.
(E)   Thueahle for preparadon and submission of each report
The preparation of activities reports is a contiuing process; the various basic date
produed either by the accoundng system or through technical monitoring of worksites shall be entered
in a datase, so that the tables in the activities report for any given time period can called up and
edted as and when required. The monitoring and inputing of basic data shall take place daily, preferably
as soon as the information comes in from the consultants and contractors. Within the three working days
folowing the end of a bi-monhly period for which the activities report is due, the Data Processing Unit
sha ilscorin at there is no lag in the inputting of data relatng to the period in question and shl print
the tables to be inluded In the report, which it shall transmit, as appropriate, either to the Technical
Dior or the Administrative and Financial Director, for review and approval. Before the end of the
first fll week of the month following the period covered by the report, the approved documents prepared
by the Technical Depatmn and the Administrative and Financial Department shall be received by the
Dector General's secretarial staff. The complete report, ready to be signed, has to be on the Director
Geed's desk two working days before the date for submission of the report o the Government.
Peformance Monitoring Indicators. The monitoring ndicators to measure project
peromnce and GAMWORKS's management efficiency wiU be the following: (a) number of Agreement
Delegating project Auhority; (b) mnuber of conts signed with enterprises; (c) mumber of contracts
copleted,; (d) percectage of conutacts completed on time and on budget; (e) percentage of payments to
contacto  wtin 30 days of invoice reception; (t) aumber of man-months of employment created; and
(g) avee time for processing contracts. Below is a table indicating the desired mnmbers and
percentages to be achieved for each project year.



Appendx 1 to Articles of Association
89                                   Page 29
TABLE 6: Performance Monitri% Indicators
Iundcato                                             Year   Year   Year   Year
1 ,,   .   Y 2  3    4
No. of Agreements Delegating project Authority
and CumWated Amounts (USS million) (both per year)
No. of contracts sigaed per year
(Design/supervision-Works)
No. of works conts completd (cumulated)
Pecentae  of contacts completed on time
Perente of contacts completed on budget
Perenap of payments to cnhtacton within 30 days of
ivoie receipt (per year)
Average time for processing contmacts (woddng days)
Percentage slaries/total cost
Percente low salaties (nilled workers)/total salaries
No. of man/mnvhs of employment created per year
Training / Assistance (number of boneficiares, per year)
Tng / Assiseance (number of firns, per year)
Training I Assistance (number of trainee x days, per year)
.~~ mr
Section I     Overseeing of the Agency
(A)   F1nandal and management audits
The Agency's accounts shall be examined quarterly by auditors in accordance with the
principles set forth in the "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the
World Bank," dated March 1982. The financial auditors shall pay very careful attention, as stated in
their terms of reference (annexed to the Project Fund Regulation), to verification of the existence,
regularity and appropriate filing of the supporting documentation justifying items in the certified
statements of expenditure furnished in support of requests for replenishment of the Agency's account
The Agency shaU also be subject to a quarterly management nd technical audit Following principles
similar to those used for the financial audit, the experts shall verify and certify the proper application at
aU levels, in both spirit and letter, of the guidelines set forth in this Manual of Procedures as well as
compliance with all of the Agency's contractual obligations. Special attention shall be paid to verification
of the quality of worksite monitoring and of the resulting information. The audit periodicity will be
examined during the mid-term review process.



ANNFX 4
Appendix 1 to Articles of AssocItlQ
90                                 Page 30
(B)   Specific obUgations of vaious Agency deprtments at the time of the financdal and
managemlnent audits
The financial and management auditors shall be introduceI by the Director General to the
staffs of the various Agency departments when they arrive for their first visit. Ihe Administradve and
Financial Depatment shall be the principal, though not the exclusive, point of contact for the financial
auditors and the Technical Department for the management auditors.
An office shall be made available to the financial and management auditors, and an
employee of tle; pertinent Agency department shall be assigned In each case to respond to requests for
docments and to physically facilitate the auditors' task.
(C)   Conduct of employees In relation to financi and management auditors
Insofar as possible, the schedule of operations of the externa experts brought in to
monitor and oversee the Agency shall be organized in such d manner as to minimize the dhsruption of the'
nomal work routine of Agency staff. However, Agency employees should make themselves available
at all times during the a-lits and should give requests from the auditors priority attention above their
other duties.
The financial and management auditors, duly accredi.ed by the Director General, shall
have access to all the documents held by the Agency, without exception, and Agency employees are
required to comply as soon as possible with any requests for documents and to respond accurately to any
question asked of them.



Iggf i                     A X fl ltE Xa3



Appendl 1.1 to the Manual of Prgoedre
92                                Pagp 2 o2
Artc  6-:
Th Doneficiay Shalnotnfre, other than as ptovided In ArtIcles 3, 4 and S above,
in executon of th Project, paday as regard worbs execution and rdations with contron.
ArIe 7:
Mme Beneiciay agr  to obtain the fiaci and thical meA= needed to maintain the
resul of the work, to continue to prvide saeves using Its own funds, and to maintain the equlpmm
lled undr the Proect. Failre to honor this commimnt shall render the Beneiciary Ineligible for
other wodr  or services nde the IDA Project.
Aride 8:
he Agcy saU be soldy responsible vis-&-vis third partes Involved in execution of td
Projet lt shall provide, or cu to be prvted, fll insurn  coveage in respect of the coreso
d^M.
Arddce P:
This       du shal tminate upon ddivery of the wors to the Beneficiary, scheduled
for       (date). n tho evet tat tis date i ddayed by more tan thre mons, the Agecy sa so
notfy  Bt   d      as 8oon as possible. The Benefiary shall be reqied to accept delvry of the
woksI ith  auirt stae of compledon. Any gurte  in effect at takeover of te works dsal be
taferred to te Be cdary.
Ardce 100:
Al costs adsing fom  exacutdon of the Project (design, wors/sevices, supervision,
GAMWOR$S's manpag      t fee) sh be borno as follows:
4.5
IDA, other doo      ..
This a         bcomes effectiv only after the B   filciary and the Goveanent have
madir de of the          ag vilable to the Agency.
Done at            on
For th BenefIcir:                       For the Agency: The Director General



93                               PAe 1 dtl
SAMPLE AGREWMT FOR USING EQUIPMENT
It s hereby agre  as follows:
b _vee   _       .      e    by         . hereinaRer referred to as gh  flenfciary,- and the
OAMWORKS, r_prentd by its Director General, Mr. _., herinafte refned to as eo "Agency":
Artl 1:
This      e  supplemen  ihe Agreem    Delegatg Project Auwrt dated
-   betwn the Beficy and tho Agcy for accutin of the foUowing proet Otereinaft rfed
to as h Projec):
.......... **.........
Ardle 2:
TI Bnfiiay dsll make available to the Agency for a period of  .  free of dcage,
the fOllwing euipnment
......  .... ............-e
..*.............
The condition of this equipment is set out in the report attached to ths agremeL
Ardde 3:
Upon completion of the period of availabity, a new rvport on the condition of the
equipn dsll be dmwn up. The Agency guante  to return the equipment in the condition In which
it was made avalblo to it. Ihe return of such equipment i mandatory under curret legiation.
Arle  4:
Ib Agn  may enust use of the equipment to the contao responsble for eeuon
of the Proect woks.  he cotactor shall take the necsay steps to provide for ina    of the
equipment and to cover l risk rlating to its use.
Artle S:
All expense  arising from use of the equipment (such as labor, fud and othr
consmables, -and materials) sall be borne by the Agency.
ArdIe 6:
Exteson of the period of availability established under Article 2 shal be set out in
_tawhum to tis ageement
Done at     _ -on
For he Beneficiary:                     For the Agency:



-AM
94                               Pae 1 of9
SAMPLE CONTRACT FOR WORKS
This AGREMENT Is made t   ....... day of          .. 1993  rETWEEN GAMVWORS
reprsente heren by its Decor Genal, heriafter refered to as 'the Ageny' of the on pu,
and ...........(X, a No-oporae peo) or (Y Co. Lt, a Company whose reistered offeo h dsieuatd
at ).....    represented for the purposes of this contrc by ..........  hereinafter referred to as diu
Coctrw  of the other part.
WHES
Th Agency and the Contracto are derous of doing ........h........   following a_emi Is
hernftr eanteed Into.
NOW THIS AGRAEMET IS AS FOLLOWS:
CHAPTE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1:    Descipt  of the conta
Tbi contract  for execution of works comprising.
Atcle 2:     Location of works
Te wodrs are located in 
Artde 3:    Type of contrac
Thi cot is for a fixed, non-adjustable overal price broken down in accoce with do
attached bill of quantidtes.
Artdle 4:    Contract documents
The following are the contract documents, in order of prioriy:
-     the bid;
-     this contrct;
-     the ovel price breadown, with refeece to the schedule of uni pdces and dh
bil of quantiies;
-     the specidal technical specifications;
-     drawings and designs.



ANE" 
Anpendlx 2 to the Manua of Procedures
9 5                              Page 2 of 9
CHAPTER 11- ZXECUTION OF WORKS
Article 5:   Commencement of works
Signature of the contract shall constitute an implicit ortder to commence the works.
Article 6:   Timetable and completion date
No later than 15 calendar days following signature of the contract, the contractor shall furnisb
to the Agency a proposed timetable and a detailed works organization chart. The completion date
shall be calendar days following the date of comract signature.
Article 7:   Documents
There are no documets or special items to be made available to the Contractor to facilitate its
work (or the Agency shall furnish to the Contractor the following documents: ........
Article 8:   Drawings
The drawings included in the bidding documents shall be provided for purposes of information.
Article 9:   Quality of works
The works shall be of excellent quality, conforming in all regards to accepted standards, free
from any defects, and as close to perfect as possible. Failing this, they shall be rejected,
demolished and replaced at the Contractor's expense. It is expressly agreed that the consultant
shall be the judge of quality.
Article 10:    Works supervision
The works are placed under the supervision cf the consultant, referred to hereinafter as either
"consultant" or "supervisor," appointed by the Agency. The Contractor shall defer to all written
or verbal orders from the consultant, and the Contractor shall have 10 working days in which to
apprise the latter of any reservations he may have.
Article 11:    Equipment
The Contractor shall submit for the consultant's approval the equipment that it plans to use in
cafrying outthe services described in thetechnical specifications. Such approval notwithsUtndin,
the Contractor shall remain responsible for maintaining its equipment in serviceable condition.
Article 12:    Work site monitoring forms
The Contractor shall be responsible for filling out the work site monitoring forms in a timely and
accurate manner.



ANNEX-4
Appelx 2 to the Manual oftfo&ue
96                                Page 3 of 9
Article 13:   Orders
The Agency and its appointed consultant shall lone be authorized to issue orders to the
Contractor. Orders shall be sent by registered letter with return receipt or fished to Xh
Contractor directly against s.rnature of a receipt. The posting of orders at the Office of the Local
Authority where the works are located shall represent valid notification of the Contractor.
Article 14:    Work site installation
Proposed work sites shall be approved by the appropriate government authority. II all cases, the
Contractor shall be responsible for development of the sites made available to it and, at the end
of the works, for their due and proper restoration.
Article 15:    Health and safety
The Contractor shall be subject to the health and safety regulations in force in The Gambia. At
all times and at its own cost, it shall take the precautions necessary for the protection add safety
of all persons present at the work site, and shall enforce any rules and instructions that the
Agency or its consultant may impose in this regard.
The Contractor shall bear the cost of all safety measures necessary to ensure minimum disruption
of road traffic.
Article 16:    Labor
In its labor relations, the Contractor shall be subject to the regulations in force in The Gambia
at the time the works are performed, in particular the Labor laws.
Article 17:    Works near the project site
The Contractor may at no time file a claim or seek compensation for any disruptions or delays
attutable to simultaneous works in progress near the project site.
Article 18:    Work site signs
As soon as the work site opans, the Contractor shall place at the sites indicated by the Agency
two signs, readable at 50 m, displaying information fuished to it by the Agency. All expenses
associated with implementation of the provisions of this Article shall be borne by the Contractor.
Ardcle 19:    Work site meetings
The Contractor, the Agency and the consultant shall hold weekly meetings at the work site. A
report of the proceedings shall be drawn up. Such meetings shall not preclude the holding of any
other meetings at the request of the consultant or the Agency. Ihe Contractor shall attend such
meetings at the times and dates notified to it.



ANNEXA
Apuendlx 2 to the Manual of Procdres
97                                Page 4 of 9
Article 20:    Provisional acceptance
The Contractor shall notify the consultant and the Technical Department of the Agency at least
.....working days prior to the date on which the works are to be completed. The constant
shall then Invite the Contractor to the acceptance proceedings, which should take place as soon
as possible. The verifications performed shall determine whether the works are fuly or only
partally completed, and shall identify any defects or faults. The consultant shall prepare a
* ertificate that he shall sign together with the Contractor (if the Contractor refs  to sign, such
refusal shall be stated on the certificate).
After reviewing the certificate, the Agency's representative shall decide whether or not to accept
the wirks. If he hts any reservations, he may pronounce the works "accepted with reservations*
and shall notify the Contractor of his decision, giving the Contractor a specific time limit within
which to execute or complete works omitted or only partially completed and to remedy azy
defects and faults that may have been discovered. Once the deadlint, has passed, the Agency shaU
have the right to have the works mentioned in the provisional acceptance certificate carried out
by a firm of its choice at the expense and risk or the Contractor.
Article 21:    Defects liability period and final acceptance
The defects liability period shaU run for ....... months from the date of provisional acceptance.
During that period, the Contractor shall be formally placed on notice by the Agency to execute
the works required under guarmatee. In the event of refusal or noncompliance, the Agency sbaU
be automatically entitled to execute the work still to be done and to withhold from the
Contractor's guarantee all sums necessary for reimbursement of the expenses incurred. Final
acceptance shall be declared at the ond of the defects liability period In the form of an offcial
report sent to the Contractor.
Article 22:    Performance guarantee
For construction works, the contactor may be requested to provide a performance guarantee
covering the period of execution and maintenance.



ANIEX4
Appendix 2 to the Manual of Procedures
98                              Page S of 9
CHAPTER m - FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Article 23:    Contract price
The conact price stated in the bid shall be exclusive of import duties and sales taxes. The prices
given In the bill of quantities shall be evaluated in light of the cost prices of labor, including
employer's cotributions, total cost of supplies delivered to the work site, cos price of work site
equipment, inciuding depreciation reserves, as well as work site installadon expenses, overhead
and miscellaneous costs of the Contractor, operating constraints, contingencies and profits.
Article 24:    MobIlization advance
A mobilization advance shall be paid to the Contractor on the signing of the contract on
submission of a guarantee eqVivalent to the advance. This advance shall be equivalent to 20%
of the total amount of the original contract price. Repayment of the mobilization advance shatl
begi when the cumulative cost of the works reaches 50% of the original contract sum, and
should be completed when that cost reaches 80%. Repayment shall be pro-rata to the statements
of woik submitted. The security covering the mobilization advance shall be released In stages
with the repayment of the advance.
Article 25:    Monthly payments
T'he Contractor shall receive monthly payments based on statements of work clearly showing the
cumulative volume of work performed in the month in question, as wel as the cumulative
quanity of work done up to the last day of that month. Such quantities shall be calculated in
reference to the bill of quantities, by application to the pertinent price of the quantities actaly
exeuted, following verification by the Agency's consultant. Payments shall be made in Banjul
thrgh the Administrative and Financial Department of the Agency upon submission of invoices
approved by the Technical Department and accompanied by statements of work certfied by the
cosultant. Payment shall be made within 30 days following the approval by the Agency's
Technical Department of the Contractor's monthly invoice.
Article 26:    Retention monies
Retention monies equal to 10% shall be withheld from each monthly payment. Such monies shall
be repaid upon final acceptance of the works. 5% of such retention monies shall be repaid on
completion of the contract and the remaining 5 % upon final acceptance of the works.
Article 27:    Payment upon delivery of supplies
There is no provision for payments upon delivery of supplies.
Aricle 28:    Bank domiciliation
The Contractor shall inform the Agency of the number of the bank account in which the Agency
is to deposit Its payments.



W t z R  te  t  t  !t1 | 1V 
>  8  >  t     tt             *. wg ** |~~~~  WX  *    I - 
j1    i        l*                      II  s! bI.
|~~~~~                 B::t}0iS i   S  
0  t       ~~t t. |t at    ta4g



100                              Page  of 9
SAMPLE CONTRACT FOR WOIRS
Thi AGREEMNT I made thb  ....... day of .......... 1993 BErWEEN GAMWORIK
rprented hereln by Its Director Genral, hereina    referred to as*the Agency of the on part.
and ........... (X. * Non-cotporate person) or (Y Co. Ltd, a Company whose reistered office I sittd
at ........) ,  represene for the purposes of this cotrct by .......... href r nred to as 'the
Contractor' of the other part.
WHERAS
MeAgency and the Contrcr are desirous of doing ............... the folow   S   J
hereft  entered into.
NOW THIS AGREEMT 1S AS FOLLOWS:
CHAPrER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
Atdel 1:    Descripdon of the conac
Tbis con     Is bfor execution of works comprising.
Arte 2:    Location of work
be wo are located in .
Arte 3:    Type of contract
This conrc I for a fixed, non-adjustable overal price broken down In acordae with the
attached bill of quantities.
Artele 4:    Conactdocments
Ihe following are the contract docments, in order of priority:
-     the bid;
-  hi contrat;
-     the overall price breakdown, with reference to the schedule of urItt pdrc  and the
bi)! of quanties;
-     the speci technical specifications;
-     drawings and designs.



ANNE-
2  MM  fhdum
101                              Page 2 of 9
CHATEtR I - EXECUTUON OF WORKS
Ardde :      Commen of works
Sgnae of the contract shall consti  an Implick order to comm_ce tho worim.
Atdie 6:    Timetable and completion daft
No latr tan 15 cslendar days fbllowing signatur of the coact, th contaor sall   fs
to the A cy a proposed timetable and a detailed work organzaon chdrt. Mm compledon date
shall be-calendar days following the datoe of co*ac sioat
Ardtle 7:    Documents
There are no documents or specia Pems to be made available to the Cn   to faciliate b
wock (or the Agency shall frnish to *e Contractor the following documnts: ........ ).
Article 8:    Drawig
The drawin   cluded in the bidding documents hall be prvided for purposes of Ifmain
Aridt 9:    Quality of works
T'2-, works shall be of excellet qualty, conforming In al rerd to acepted
frm my defects, and as close to perfc     possible. Fali  this, they shal be reocted,
demolished and replaced at the Contractor's  xe. It is ep y  ad tbat the consta
9sh  be the judge of quality.
Aricle 10     Work supervision
h wor  are plaed under the supevn o t  coutat, roteed to har  e dk
woonsultant! or 'supervisor,' appointed by the Agey. lhe Conractrdsha der to all writte
or verb  orders from the conultant, and the Contaucr shal have 10 worig days In which to
apprise the latter of any reservations he may have.
ArtIce 11:    Eq
The Contactor shall submit for the consulta tov  the equipme  tda It pln to use In
carrying out the servces descibed Inthe tehniec       Suchsaproval           inS _4
tho Contractor shall remain responsible for mating Is etquipm  Inoo
Arte 12:    Work site monitoring forms
The Contractr all be responsible for filing out the work t moitong forms in a timely and
acrate manner.



ANM4
Appendix 2 to the MaXnal et Procedures
102                               Page 3 of 9
Atlde 13:   Orders
'he Agency and Its appointed consultant sball ale.> be authorized to Ise orders to the
Contracr. Orders shall be sent by regtred lettez with return receipt or firnihed to the
Conractr directly agaimt signature of a receipt. The posting of orders at the Office of the Loali
Authory where the works are located shall represent valid notification of the Contractor.
ArtIele 14:    Work site installation
Proposed work sites shall be approved by the appropriate government authority. In all cases, the
Contractor shall be responsible for development of the sites made avaiable to it and, at the end
of the works, fDr their due and proper restoration.
Ardce 1S:    Health and safety
The Conar shall be subject to the health and safety regulations in force In Ithe Gambia. At
all times and at its own cost, it shall take the precautions necessary for the protection and st
of ail persons present at the work site, and shall enforce any rules and instructions that the
Agey or its consultaot may impose in this regard.
e Conau r shall bear the cost of all safety measures necessary to ensure miimum disruption
Of road traffic.
Aricle 16:    Labor
In its labor relations, the Conactor shall be subject to the regulations in force in The Gambia
at the time the works are performed, in particiuar the Labor laws.
Article 17:    Works near the project site
Ihe Cnctor may at no time file a claim or seek com tion for any disruptions or delays
autable to simultaneous works in piagress near the project site.
Artce 18:    Work site sigs
As soon as the work site opens, the Contracor sball place at the sites indicated by the Agency
two dgns, readable at 50 m, displaying information fimnished to it by the Agency. All expenses
assocated with implementation of the provisions of thbis Article shall be borne by the Cotractor.
Artlde 19:    Work site meetings
Ibe Conacr, the Agency and the consultant shall hold woeldy meetings at the work site. A
report of the procdip shall be drawn up. Such meetings shall not preclude the holding of any
other meetings at the request of the consultant or the Agency. The Contor all attend such
meeting at the tmes and data notified to iL



ANNE&A
Appendx 2 to the Manual of Procedures
103                              Page 4 of 9
Article 20:    Provisional acceptance
The Contractor shall notify the consultant and the Technical Department of the Agency at least
....... workiing days prior to the date on which the works are to be completed. The consultant
shall then invite the Contractor to the acceptance proceedings, which should take place as soon
as possible. The verifications performed shall determine whether the works are fully or only
partially completed, and shall identify any defects or faults. The consultant shaU prepare a
cerificate that he shall sign together with the Contractor (if the Contractor refuses to sign, such
refusal shall be stated on the certificate).
After reviewing the certificate, the Agency's representative shall decide whether or not to accept
the works. If he has any reservations, he may pronounce the works 'accepted with reservations'
and shall notify the Conator of his decision, giving the Contractor a specific time limit within
which to execute or complete works omitted or only partially completed and to remedy any
defects and faults that may have been discovered. Once the deadline has passed, the Agency Shal
have the right to have the works mentioned in the provisional acceptance certificate carried out
by a firm of its choice at the expense and risk of the Contractor.
Article 21:    Defects liability period and final acceptance
The defects liability period shall run for ....... months from the date of provisiona acceptance.
During that period, the Contractor shall be formally placed on notice by the Agency to execute
the works required under guarantee. In the event of refusal or nor ompliance, the Agency shall
be automatically entitled to execute the work still to be done and to withhold from the
Contractor's guarantee all sums necessary for reimbursement of the expenses incurred. Final
acceptance shall be declared at the end of the defects liability period in the form of an official
report sent to the Contractor.
Article 22:    Performance guarantee
For construction works, the contractor may be requested to provide a perfbrmance guarantee
covering the period of execution and mainance.



ANN}= 
Appendix 2 to the Manual of Procedures
104                              Page 5 of 9
CHAPTER MI - FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Article 23:    Contract price
The contract price stated in the bid shall be exclusive of import duties and sales taxes. The prices
given in the bill of quantities shall be evaluated in light of the cost prices of labor, including
employer's contributions, total cost of supplies delivered to the work site, cost price of work site
equipment, including depreciation reserves, as well as work site installation expenses, overhead
and miscellaneous costs of the Contractor, operating constraints, contingencies and profits.
Article 24:    Mobilization advance
A mobilization advance shall be paid to the Contraor on the signing of the contract on
submission of a guarantee equivalent to the advance. This advance shall be equivalent to 20%
of the total amount of the original contract price. Repayment of the mobilization advance shall
begin when the cumulative cost of the works reaches 50% of the original contract sum, and
should be completed when that cost reaches 80% . Repayment shall be pro-rata to the statements
of work submitted. The security covering the mobilization advance shall be released in stages
with the repayment of the advance.
Article 25:    Monthly payments
The Contractor shall :eceive monthly payments based on statements of work clearly showing the
cumulative volume of work performed in the month in question, as well as the cumulative
quantity of work done up to the last day of that month. Such quantities shall be calclated in
reference to the bill of quantities, by application to the pertinent price of the quantities actaly
executed, following verification by the Agency's consultant. Payments shall be made in Banjul
through the Administdve and Financial Department of the Agency upon submission of invoices
approved by the Technical Department and accompanied by statements of work certified by the
consultant. Payment shall be made within 30 days following the approval by the Agency's
Technical Department of the Contractor's monthly invoice.
Article 26:    Retention monies
Retentionmonies equal to 10% shall be withheld from each monthly payment. Such monies shl
be repaid upon final acceptance of the works. 5% of such retention monies shall be repaid on
completion of the contract and the remaining 5% upon final acceptance of the works.
Article 27:    Payments upon delivery of supplies
There is no provision for payments upon delivery of supplies.
Article 28:    Bank domiciliation
The Contractor shall Inform the Agency of the number of the bank account in which the Agency
is to deposit its payments.



ANX4
Appendix 2 to the Manuul of Proedure
105                              Page 6 of 9
Ardcle 29:    Discounting and price adjustment
'ne contract makes no provision for discountng or price adjustment. In the event of delay
attributable to the Contractor, the latter may in no event be entled to claim any discounting or
price adjustment to offset the penalties for delays provided for in Article 31 below.
Article 30:    Tax and customs provisions
Ibis contract shall benefit from the exemptions and special treatment provided for by the
, dated                       describing the fiscal and custom
regime applying to externally-funded public projects In The Gambia.



ANNMC4
Appendix 2 to the Manual of Procedures
106                               Page 7 of 9
CEAPTER IV - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Article 31:    Delays
In the event that items of work specified in the contract are not completed on schedule, the
Contractor shall be subject to a penalty of one-thousandth of the price of the works ordered per
day of delay.
Article 32:    Changes in volume of work
The Agency may order a 20% increase or decrease in the overall volume of work without lt
being necessary to conclude an amendment and without this entitling the Contractor to make a
claim. In such event, the contract price shall be adjusted accordingly by applying to the
quntities added on or removed the corresponding prices shown in the overall price breakdown.
At the same time, the completion date shall be revised accordingly.
Aricle 33:    Interruption of contractor's activities
In the event of an unforeseen temporary or permanent interruption of all or part of the
Contractor's activities, the Contractor shall as soon as possible, and at the latest within two
working days, so inform the Agency and, with the latter, take the necessary measmres to continue
the works under conditions that will not adversely affect the Agency.
Article 34:    Cancellation of the contract
In the event of bankruptcy of the Contractor, or if it liquidates its assets to pay off Its creditors,
or if it is placed in receivership for insolvency, the Agency may, without prejudice to any other
remedy to which it may be entided, cancel the contract in a written notification sent to the
Contractor. The Agency may inform the Contractor in writing that it is failing to meet its
contractual obligations when the Contractor:
-     refuses or neglects to provide the full complement of workers as per its works
organization plan and the list of personnel attached to its bid, or equipment of the
quality required for the execution of the works, except as provided for in Article
31 (delays);
-     neglects to pay what it owes to its subcotractors, suppliers or workers;
-     continually fails to comply with the laws, regulations or ordinances, or with the
instructions given by the consultant;
-     seriously violates the provisions of the contract in any other way;
no wrkten notification from the Agency shall enjoin the Contractor to correct the defect wthin
48 hours following the date of receipt of the written notification. If the Contractor fals to correct



Aend          nu1c 2 to gm lu o Prm
107                             Page 8 of 9
the defect, the Agency may, without prejudice to any other remedy to which it may be eiled,
camcel the contract.
Article 35:    Compensation
The Conrator shall send the Agency a stme  of the wages paid to pMnmd empoye t
carry out the works. The Agency or its representve may, if it deems nec y, bo pret
when the Contractor's workers assigned to the work site receive their wages. Should the
Contractor not honor its commitments vis-1-vis is personnel, particularly as regards the paymet
of wages, the Agency shall automatically act In the Contractor's sead in makingmsch wag
payments. Such amounts shall be deducted from the sums due to the Contactor by the Agoe.
Article 36:    Emergencies
The Agency reserves the right to Intrupt the contact for works whenever it daem sd
interruption necessary for the protection of life, the worsm, or neighboring propty.
Article 37:    Inclement weather
Under no circumstances may the Contractor seek compensation for disruption or delas caused
by rain or other inclement weather conditions.
Article 38:    Liabiity
Tme Contractor shall be liable during execuion of the works tbr all damage, bum or accidd
of whatever nature to third paries caused by is pesone or equipment or multin fom t
works. It shall take out employer's civil liability insurance, which should spocify tt the
personnel of the Agency, Beneficiary and consultant are' considered third pades. mhe Contract
shIl lrnish the Agency with a copy of the policies taken Out prior to     of the
works concerned. Moreover, it is obligated, whenever so required, to submit evidence of re r
payment of premiums.
Article 39:    Protection of buildings
Ihe Contracor shal take all measus nceary to protbet buildings and their suo s
In parca, Ihat              srucures and eupmem  are not damagd. In the ev    of
damage caused by its.personnel or equipment, the Contractor shall bear the cost of repair of th
damaged property.
Article 40:    Disputes and litigation
If, over the course of the works, problems should arise between the Agency and th COnract
to which no amicable solution can be found, the issue shall be brought befte    competet
courts in The Gambia.



ANNU
Anpeudx 2 to the Manual o   coeedurf.
108                                Page 9 of 9
ArIcle 41:    Contractor's site office
The Contractor shall maintain site office near the works and shall inform the Agency of the place
of sch office.
SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF GAMWORKS                            .................................
Date
In the presence of
lbe Director General of the Agency                                  ................................
Date
SEALED WITH THIE COMMON SEAL OF                                    ................................
In the presence of
The Contractor
Date
...................



AMR"
Sub-Anex 1 to Anpendl   2
109                              Page lot 1
FO}RM OF BID
Reference:   Invitation to bid concerning the project:
1, undersigned, .....    ..  acting in my capacity as ... .............................
in the name of and on behalf of ..................., hereinafter referred to as 'the Contractor,' registered
under No .... , domiciled at the foWlowing address .
telephone    .    ...., and listed in the GAMWORKS Registry under No.
-avig read the bidding documents relating to the above-menioned works, and In
particular the following documents:
(1)    ntion to bid
(2)   Conditions of bidding
(3)   Tehical specifications
(4)   Draft contract and is annexes
(5)   Overall price breakdown or schedule of unit prices
(6)   Bill of quities
And having evauated from my point of view and under my responsibility the nature and
difficuties of the works,
Do now,
Undertake to cary out said works for the sum of ...... Dalassis (in words), excluding
import duties and sales taxes, calculated on the basis of the prices stated in the overall price breakdown
atached to this bid, and equivalent to ....... Dalassis, including all taxes,
Accept, wiout restiction, all the conditions of bidding,
Submit an overal price breakdown bearing my signature modeled on the form provided
to me,
Agree, as Contractor, to cary out the works named above, in accordance with the overall
price brekdown,
Submit a draft conrac bearig my signature, including my proposals for hages to said
contract
GAMWORKS shall pay the amounts due by it as per the detaied statemes of wok, by
crediting the bank account opened in the name of
................... , No .  , at the ..  branch of ......     Bank.
Done in one original, at . .           , 199..
The Conractr



Sub-Annes 2 to AppnudIx
110                             Page l ot 1
FORM OF MOBILZATION ADVANCE GUARANTEE
ater from the Guarantor to the Agency)
WhereM r ., representingthecontractingffinof.....
and refered to hereaer as the "Contcor," has undertaken as of .................... (date) to carry out
(name and location of the project or works),
And you have stipulated in said contract that the Contactor al receive a mobilizadon
advance of .....  equivalent to ......% 9 of the contact price (maximum 20%),
And we have agreed to guantee repayment of the mobilization advance graned to the
Contacr,
We hereby agree to guarantee on your behalf, in the nane of and for the account of th
Conrator, the sum of ............ equivalent to 100% of the said mobilization advance,
And we further agree to pay, upon receipt of your first request in writing declaring that
the Contractor has failed to comply with the stipulations of the above-mentioned contract, and wthout
any additonal suppordng documentation, all sums up to a maximum of ............... (amount of
guarantee), as agreed.
This guarante shall become effective on the date of its snature.
Each repayment of the advance shall give rise to parS release of the guarantee.
DONE IN BANJUL ON ..................
Signed, the Guarntor



ANNIEA
Appeg dIx 3.1 to tlxe Mnual of Proeures
Page l of 3
SAMPLE CONTRACT FOR DESIGNISIUDY
This AGREDENT is made this ....... day of ....,.1993 BETWEEY4 GAMWORKS
represented herein by its Director General, hereinafter referred to as the Agency' of the one part,
and .....   , (X, a Non-corporate person) or (Y Co. Ltd, a Compny whose registered office is
situated at . ... ), represented for the purposes of this contract by .......... hereinafter referred to as
"the Contactor" of the other part.
WVHEREAS
The Agency and the Contractor are desirous of doing ................ the following agreement is
hereinafter entered into.
NOW THS AGREEMNT IS AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1:    Description of the contract
Thbis contract covers the services defined in the attached terms of reference.
Article 2:   Contract documents
This contract consists of the following documents:
(a)    the contract proper, and
(b)   the terns of reference.
Article 3:   Consultant services
The Consultant agrees to provide the services described in the terms of reference attached hereto.
(he services may include an unconditional Part A and a conditional Part B, performance of
which is left to the discretion of the Agency.)
Article 4:   Obligations of the consultant
The Consultant undertakes to provide its services in accordance with the rules of the trade and
with the provisions of this contract.
Article 5:   Obligations of the agency
Tne Agency agrees to fmrnish to the Consultant, within one week following the date of
notification of this contract, all existing background documentation necessary to provision of the
services, and in particular .....



ANNEX 
Aendx 3.1 to the Manal of Procedures
112                              Page 2 of 3
Tne Agency moreover agrees to facilitate relations between the Consultant and the authorities
Involved in the study.
Artle 6:    Contract price
'Me price of this conract is set at the non-adjustable overall lump sum of  (for Part A and
-for Part B), exclusive of sales taxes.
Artidle 7:    Payment
Payment shal be made in Dalasis to the order of Mr ........ (Name of firm) ........ (Name of
Baik) ....... (Account No) .......  (Address) ..... , as follows:
(Unconditional Part A):
-     30% of the amount (of Part A) upon notification of dhe contract, subject to the
establishment of a bank guarantee in an equivalent amount;
-     70% of the amount (of Part A) upon remitance of all documents and their
acceptane by the Agency. The guarantee shall be released upon receipt of the
Part A studies and their accetance by the Agency.
(Conditional Part B):
This part may begin only upon notification of the order, if the Agency decides to
continue the studies and to use the same consultant:
-     a mobilization advance of 20% of the amount of Part B upon notification of the
service order to carry out the studies, subject to the estmblishment of a bank
guarantee in the equivalent amount;
- 40% of the amount of Part B upon delivery of the detailed design and its
ccept    by the Agency;
-     25% of the amount of Part B upon receipt of the bidding documents; and
-     15% upon delivery of the bid evaluation report.
'he mobilizadon advance guarantee shall be released after the Agency accepts the bidding
documents.
Article 8:    Documents to be furnished
The doc_um to be furnished by the Consultant to the Agency shall be indicated in the terms
of reference.



ANNEX 4
Anpdlx 3.1 to the Mlaual of Pboegr
113                              Page 3 ot3
Article 9:   Duration
Ihe completion date (for Part A) is one month from the dte of notification. (te completion
date for Part B is set with effect from the date of notification of the service order for the studies.)
Article 10:   Contt validity
This contract shall be binding following its signature by the contracting pardes.
Article 11:   Disputes and litigation
The Consultant and the Agency shall seek amicable resolution of all difficulties that may arise
in the interpretation and performance of this contract. Pailing such amicable resolution, ay
conflicts between the Consultant and the Agency arising from the Interpretation or performance
of this contract shall be brought before the appropriate courts of Banjul.
Article 12:    Exemption from taxes
This contract shall be exempt from all taxes and fees and from al registration formalities.
SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF GAMWORKS                          .................................
Date
In the presence of
The Director General of the Agency                                .................................
Date
SEALED WmH THE COMMON SEAL OF                                     ................................
In the presence of
The Contractor                                       Date



Apendix 3.2 to the Manual of Promdugr
114                              Page I of 4
SAMPLE CONTRACr FOR WORKS SVISION
Contract No.     concluded on the basis of a negotiated agreement concerning supervision of
the following project:
SIGNED ON:
APPROVED ON:
NOTIFIED ON:
REGISTERED ON:
This AGREEMENT is made this ....... day of ...    1993 BETWEEN GAMWORKS
represented herein by its Director General, hereinafter referred to as 'the Agency" of the one part, and
of ...    (X. a Non-corporate person) or (Y Co. Ltd a Company whose registered office is situated at
........... ), represented for the purposes of this contract by .......... hereinafter referred to as 'the
Contractor' of the other part.
WHiEREAS
The Agency and the Contractor are desirous of doing ................ the following agreement is
hereinafter entered into.
NOW THIS AGREEMENT IS AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1:    Description of the contract
The description of this contract shall be to provide consultant services involving supervision and
overseeing of the works to be carried out under following project:
and preparation of the pertinent statenents of work.
Article 2:    Location of the project
The project described in Article 1 is to be carried out in the following locality (localities):
in the area(s) known as:
Article 3:    Documents and information furnished by the Agency
The Agency, as the Beneficiary's delegate, shall furnish to the Consultant the following
documents and information
-      ithe bidding documents;



ANNE4
Agpendx 3.2 to the Manual of Procedgure
115                              Page 2 of 4
-     technical documentaon In addition to that Included In the bidding domnts;
-     copy of the contract for works.
Aitele 4:    Principles governing the Consultants services
Mhe Consultant shall organize all proced'ures and documents associated with works superviion,
in conjuncon with the Tecnical Department of the Agency. The Consultant shall be responsible
for overseeing proper execution of the works and shall monitor compliance with:
-     the quanities specified;
-       ithe quality required by the technical specifications;
-       ithe scheduled completion dates.
The Consultant shall be the Agency's adviser in the protection of its interests, particularly In the
even of any disputes. The Consultant shall perform his duties with due observance of the rules
of the trade, furnishing services consistent with the nature and size of thie project, in accordace
wth the table of services attached to this contract. He shall further act upon instructions given
to him by the Agency concerning the works schedule, completion dates, order of priorit of
works, and execution pwcedures.
Arcle S:     Conditions for performance of the Contract for Works Supervision
AUl documents and fiies to be furished as set forth below shall conform to current rules
concening construction and public works in The Gambia. In coeaton with the Agency's
Technical Department, the Consultant shall be responsible for establishing all do atio
necessary for the preparation, monitoring and overseeing of the works executed by the
Contractor, and in particular:
-     works program;
-     work site timetable;
-     monthly work statements;
-     tests and laboratory reports on the materials used;
-     reports on quality control of necessary supplies and equipment;
-     materials inventory management reports;
-     supervision report on materials usage;
-     reports of work site visits;
-     reports of work site meedngs with the Contractor and the Agency;



ANM
AppendkI3.2 to. the Mmual of ProceduFsM
116                              Page3 of 4
-     periodic progress reports;
technical documents on any amendments or cages proposed by the Agency;
-     provisional and flnal ccptmce certificates;
-     works completion report;
-     as built drawings;
-     review of any claims lodged by the Contractor and recommendations as to measures to
be taken.
Article 6:    Consultant's remuneration
lhe Consultant shall be remumerated as folhws:
Artide 7:    Discouning and price adjustment
The piices in this Contract for Works Supervision are fixed and may not be adjusted.
Atticle 8:    Schedule of payments
A lump-sum advance of 10% of the estimated contract price shall be paid to the Consultant at his
reqest and following the establishmen of a bank guarntee in an equivalent amount.  he
payment of sums due by way of fees for supervisory senrices shall be scheduled as follows:
-     30% of the estiated contact price when the quantity of works carried out reaches 40%
of the tota quantity of works. Th' advance guaratee mentioned above shall be released
following such payment;
-     40% of the estimated contractprice, when the quantity ofworks carried outreaches 80%
of the total quantity of works;
-     10% of the estimated contract price upon provisional acceptance of the works;
-     the rema'-ing 10% upon the finl acceptance of the works.
Article 9:   Accountability of consultant
The consultant shall be direcdy and personally accountable to the Agency for supervision of the
quality and quantity of the works.
Article 10:    Monitoring of services
The Technical Manager of the Agency shall be responsible for monitoring the Consultant's
services. The consultant shl defer to all written or verbal orders issued by the Technical



ANNSX
Anpendkx 3.2 to the Manuao P-of   eduure
117                             Page 4 of 4
Deparment of the Agency, and sball submit any reservation., in wring within a period of 10
days, beyond which period no reservations shall be accepted.
Arcle 11:    Chages in program
In the evel ta the Agency should decide to make basic changes to its program at any te of
its execuon, the Consultant shall receive fees adjusted to reflect the sevices provided. An
amendment to thif contract shall be drafted establishing the conditions govening the Consultant's
remuneraton in such cases.
Arcle 12:    Disputes and litigation
If, during the course of the works, problems should arise between the Agcncy and the Consultant
to which no amicable solution can be found, the matter shall be brought before the competent
courtu In 'he Gambia.
Article 13:   Labor laws
The Consultant shall be responsible for compliance with the labor legislation and regulations in
force in The Gambia.
Article 14:    Insurance
Ihe Consultant shall submit evidence that he has taken out an insuramce policy with a company
approved by the Agency to cover risks and professional liability related to the performance of his
services.
SEALED WITH THE COMMON SEAL OF GAMWORKS                         .................................
Date
In the presence of
Ihe Director General of the Agency                               .................................
Date
SEAIED Wlr  TIRE COMIMON SEAL OF                                .................................
In the presence of
The Contar                                                      ................................a.



Aendx 4.1 to the Manual Qf Proqcedure
118                              Page l of S
SAMPLE AGENCY'S ACTIVIIES REPORT
L            Repting pedod:
R.           Date of preceding report:
M.           Status of Agency's acoount as of the dato of this report:
-     Account balance: ..; balance date:        :
-     Amount of undisbued  horns:
hAmount of repleniiment requests not yet received:
-     List of replenishment requests not yet received:
RequN                    Amount           Transmittal      Instiuion
IV.          Obnadons and commes by the Director Genetal:
Evaluaton  reualts In ron  o gener project objectives;
Agency pronn
Cuoutator perfornance;
Redation with beneficiaies;
Assatmeeand  Wtrann progrm for contractin firms; and
V.    Tables:
1.    ActiItes report, table of projects declared eligible, and table of those selected during the year
under revew.
2.    Contract awarded during the year under review.
3.    Sumayof contract and dsuemnsby works category during the year under revew.
4.    Cnrcsfor services for the year under review.
S.    Statemen of sevice, tcnica assistance and training for contrating firms.
6.    Perfomunce ofcnrat  Wa4%W 4MIiU "so               i c aviw.



ADDenddx 4.1 to the Manual of Procedures
119                             Page 2 of S
Activities report dated _, 199_
Period from    . 199 t _     , 199
Table 1: PROJECTS DECLARED EUGThLE DURING THE PERIOD
Irr_:-  - -'-.=-=-  l. : E_ 
Project No.   Benficiry   Location  Name of     Brief       Worwh       Eligby      Esmate
l_______ ________ ________  Pro jet             Desaciption    Catgory   Date         Amount
Table 2: PROJECTS SELECTED DURING THE PERIOD
Projet No.   Beneecia1y   Location  Namne of    Brief       Worss       Eligibility    Esimat
Projed      Description    Category  Dae         Amount
Total



Appendix 4.1 to the M,anual of Proc
120                                Page 3 of 5
Tabl 3: CONTRACTS AWARDED DURING THE PERIOD
Coal"     P.J.     wait     P,o,      Win.  ,Bid   Comm=Um   Award  Consoub"$   Conra
No.       No.      CawY   Cate"oq    PI        Due  Dat         Dat   Riliate     Awa<d
Table 4: SUMMARY OF CONTRACrS AND DISBURSEMENTS BY WORKS CATEGORY
Wors Category    Contract Signed                        Disbursement
Period                               Period              Cumulative
I X
3   ___I_______ I                                    ._______
-4                 _________          ____  _   ______
5      __             __ __  __ ___   , _ _ _ __ _ _ _ ._                      _  _ _ _ _ _
11                               ..     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
12                                      .
13        .                         _
14 
Totail                                  .
.,



Avndb 4-1 to the Ma8nual of Procedures
121                             Page 4 of S
Table 5: CONTRACrS FOR SERVICES
Contra    Project    Service    Date of    Contract    Disbursement
No.       No        Provider   Contract   Price
l______    _______    _______    Period               Period           Cumulative
Total



ANM X
Appendix 4.1 to the Manuel of Prcedures
122                           Page 5 of 5
Table 6: STATEMENT OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND TRAINNG SERVICES FOR CONTRACTORS
Co.pay       Cateory      Nature of     Service      Man Days
Services     Provider
Period       Cumulative
Total
Table 7: CONTRACTS AWARDED DURING THE PERIOD (PERFORMANCE)
CoUa*"  Prjctm  Woik   Ftct  Winning  Unit  Unit  Actulto  Qualiy of  % of
No.   NO.   C_.aq  Nam   Cm       Us.                                    - cot  EAtd   Servic   Prjet
=   --       -      --.                           -
Toalv  cvd            Euf
Tabe 7 COIRAIS  WARED  UR1G TE PRIOumEFRMN



ANNK4
Apnidk b.2 to te Mana of locedres
123                              Pag 1 d4
SAWtE FORM
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BU!LING PROECT
(GAMWORKS AGENCY)
ENVIRONMENT IMPAC ASSESSMENT FORM FOR SUB-PROJECTS
r r 1rn a ,,..TL....................
REGON:           .....................................
c f        .....................................
IMRI=w  .s .....................................
I lrlGs   ~~.....................................
BENE~".  ..................*...................
XZQ= MGM=t



-N
Agewdbh 4.2 to the Manual of Phood
124                                 Page 2 of 4
(A)  rHECW
A. SOLID WASM.  --s .  
Does die project?
(I) colects                               + Vs
(iil) dispo_                              + ve
(Ov) none of the above         r         n
B. LIQUID WASM            (D geerat                                -we
Does the project?
0 collectso                               + Vs
(iii) dispoe                   F-,        + Vs
(iv) none of the above                   n
C. DRAINAGE               (D) Seates                               - e
Does dw project
(surfac wat)            (B) collecs                               + ve
Qi) disposes                              + ve
(iv) none of the above         rn
D. SANITATION             (D) g n                                    V - ye
Does the project?
(swoege)                (i) collects                     -        + ve
(i) disposes                              + ve
(Qv) none of the above                    a n
E. WATER RESOURCES   (i) re suces recharge                -         - ve
(ii) enbances recharge                    + ve
(ii) pollutes g/water                       s - ve
.iv) none of the above                   n
L~~



mAS 
125                                 Page 3 ot 4
F. LAND RESOURCES         O  use up agdc land             r          - ve
Does the projed?
use up gre areas                          - Ve
Oil) eodes the beach                      - vy
(Iv) enhances land use                    + vs
(v) crat gr   areas             O          + ve
L1-
(vi) none of the above         I          n
0. TRAFMC                 (I)    ra tffic                      .ve
Does the project?
Oi) reduces traffic             z          + ve
OiH) manages traffic            -          + ve
(IV)  oe of the above,                    n
Number of negatives: -ve -
!=_______________         Number of positives: +ve =
i_____________   Number of neutrals: n=
NET
B)     IMACT IDENTIFICATION
From fth  bove can be assessed the following questions related to the project's eonmental
soundness.
1. Does the project have an impact on the environment ?
2.    What are the significant beneficial and adverse environmental effects of the project?
3.    Does the project have any significant potental impact on the local or affected population?
4.    Whe impact does the project have on human health?
C)  MITGATION MEASURES
1.    What mkigation measures are proposed and what altemative sites have been considered?
2.    What lens from prevos similar projects have been incorporated into the
envirnmental assesment of this project?



ANNE
Appaial 4.2 to temuagalnL
126                                Pap 4  f4
3.    Hae concerd populi    and gop   boea involved and ha  thdr  ter  and
knowledge been adquately take Int conidrato In prqoe prpto?
4.     s rstemet hlvold and are aporia  oe           a     sur
D)  RANMNG
Based on he Impact Idenification, can the proct be anked as:
(a)    Eionetlyvery positive
(b)   Positive
(c) Envronentllyvery negative
(d)   Negativ
(e)   Reque redesig
(D)    Rejeced



-N 4
Appendix 5.1 to Manual of Prgeeres
127                                Page 1 of 3
TERMS OF REFRRiENCE FOQ FINANCLAL AND MANAGEMENT AUD1T
Bwkgroud
1.    The Goverme  of The Gambia has obtained from IDA financing for a Public Works and Capacitq
Building Project which amounts to US$11 million.
2.    An executing Agency for Public Works has been created to execute the different slices of the project
involving rehabilitation and maintenance works of public property in urban areas. The small-scale public
woks will be executed by local private contractors from the building and public works sector using labor-
based methods. A quarterly financial audit will be performed to verity that project objectives are being
accomplished while relevant procedures are being followed.
Objective
1.    The objective of the audit is to enable the auditor to express his professional opinion on the financial
statements of The Gambia Public Works and Capacity Building Project to reflect the financial position of
Credit no at ...... (date) and resources and expenditures of the Credit for the quarter ended on that date.
2.    The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and will include
such tests and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances.  The opinion of the
auditor will include specific references as to whether:
(I)   the proceeds of the Credit have been used in accordance with conditions of the Credit
Agreement, widt due attention to economy and efficiency and only for the purposes for
which the financing was provided;
'ii)   goods and services fianced under the Credit have been procured in accordance with the
Credit Agreement;
(iii)  all necessary supporting documents, records and accounts have been kept in respect of all
expenditures, including Special Account payments and expenditures made on the basis of
Statements of Expendiure (SOEs), for which separate audit reports have previously been
submitted; (see below)
(iv) where Special Accounts have been used, that they have been maintained in accordance with
the provisions of the Credit Agreement;
(v)   the financial statements audited, including the Special Accounts, have been prepared in
accordance with consistendy applied International Accounting Standards (lASs) and give a
true and fair view of the financial situation of Credit no ....... at ............. and of resources
and expenditures for the quarter ended on that date.
Audits of State_ents of Expenditure (SOEs)
3.    In addition to the quarterly audit of the financial statements, the auditor is required to audit all
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal applications.



ANNEX4
AppendV I 5.1 to Manual of 1ro  res
128                                   Page 2 of 3
4.    Audits of SOEs will be carried out within the framework of and under the same guidelines as the
audits of the annual financial statements and will include such tests and conutrols as the auditor considers
necessary under the circ cs. 'he auditor will be required to express bis opinion as to whether:
(i)   the SOEs audited have been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Credit
Agreement;
(ii)   all expenditures have been made wholly and necessarily for the realization of project
objectives and with due antion to economy and efficiency;
(iii) all infomation and explanations necessary for the purpose of the audit have been obtained;
(iv)   all supporting records and documents have been retained by ................ ; and
(v)   the SOEs audited can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
Managanent Audit
5.    In addition to the quarterly audit 'opinion' report, the auditor wfll prtiare a quarterly 'management'
report In this report the auditor will:
(i)    give his comments and observations on the accounting records, systems and controls that he
has examined during the course of his audit;
(Ii)  identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakmess in systems and controls that have come
to his atenion and make recommendations for their improvement;
iil)  report on the degree of compliance of each of the finacial covenants of the Credit
Agreement and give comments on  trnal and extn  matters affecdng such compliance;
'iv)   communicate matters that have come to his attention during the audit that might have an
impact on future audits;
(v)    examine the recapitulation of important bids, the list of main enterprises, and the situation
concerning tecbnical assistance and consultant rosters and give an overall opinion of the
Agency's adherence to the relevant guidelines set out by the Mau  of Procedures;
(vi)  report on the quarterly results for the performance indicators set out in the Project Appraisal
Report (under Supervision Plan, table labeled Key Indicators) and comment on the Agency's
management efficiency and effectiveness as reflected by these measurements;
(vii) submit a financial forecast stating the use of IDA funds, cofinancing funds and other
government fimds as well as their allocation to different categories included in Annex 1 of
the Project Preparation Facility (and perhaps Schedule 1 of the future Credit Agreement
between the Republic of The Gambia and the IDA);
(viii)  bring to the borroweres attention any other mattas that the auditor considers perdnent.



Appendix 5.1 to Manual of fPoeedures
129                                  Page 3 of 3
Report
6.    The quarterly audit report should be received no later than one month after the end of the accounting
period to which the audit refers. The SOE reports should be attached to each withdrawal application made
on the basis of an SOE.
7.    Consolidation of the quarterly reports In an Annual Report analyzing the project during the first year.
Ihe Annual Audit report should be received not later than 3 months after thee end of the first year.



ANNA
Appendix 52 to the Manual of Procedures
130                                  Page l of 2
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL AUDfT
1. Background
lhe Government of 'Me Gambia has obtained from the IDA financing for a Public Works and Capacity
Building Project which amounts to US$10 million.
An executing Agency for Public Works has been created to execute the different slices of the project
involvlng rehabilitation and maintenance works of public property in urban areas. The small-scale public
works will be executed by local private contractors from the building and public works sector using
labor-based methods. A quarterly technical audit will be performed to verify that project objectives are
being accomplished while relevant procedures are being followed.
2. General Oklectives
(a)    perform a diagnosis of the set of procedures and mechanisms used in works supervision;
(b)   verify whether works performed by the Agency fulfill the dual concerns of quality and
economy;
(c)   if deemed necessary, propose recommendations to improve the existing Works Supervision
System that would be compatible with existng procedures in the Agency procedures.
3. Specific Objectives
(a)    Audit the consistency of technical studies, including:
i summary designs from architects;
3 deted design;
 workshop drawings;
* works' description;
 general and technical norms/specifications;
* measurements checking and list of unit prices;
(b)    audit the conformity of technical bidding documents with:
* standards in use;
* unified technical documents;
(c)    audit the quality of the works:
* quality of the supplies and materials (tests, destruction tests, etc.);
* use of materials on the site;
* construction techniques;
* quality of works supervision (periodic reports);
* completion time.
(d)    audit the on-site security;



Auh   to Manul 
131                                 Page2of2
(o)   analyze the behror of certain works already completed depending on their nature (worbm
or servic) and their category (oads, new buldigs, rdabitad buding etc);
(f)    updae t  prie seies to the most comprehensive levd posile, to be used a a basi for
h det          of the Agency's rfemce pdces (may not need to be done on aquarterly
basis and should be agrd upon with the Agency before quarerly adi st).
4.    lbe guarey audit report should be received no later than two montfs afer the end of the
period to which the audit refers. lhe SOE reports should be attached to each whdrwal
pUeatbon made on the ibais of an SOE.
S.    Consoliladon of the quaterly repor in an Anual Report analyzing the project during the flst year.
lhe Annud Audit rpot should be reived not later than 3 months after the end of th first year.



Aprndh2 to Aitid..o Ay4a
132                              Page lt o10
STAFF SERVICE RULES
SECTION I GENERAL
Artide 1: Purpose
These Staff Sevice Rules are drawn up In accordance wih the provisiors of the
Memorandum  and Atles of The Gambian Agency for the Management of Pablic Works
(GAMWORKS), the Manual of Procedures, in particuar the Genad Eical Prinples applicable to the
Agency's acdvities and th regulations in force in the Republic of The Gambia, in patil the Labor
Act, CAR 56.01 of the Laws of The Gambia, instituting a Labor Code and the subseqaent amn_dments
thereto.
With due observance of the above, these Staff Service Rules lay down the rles to goven
the teical orgazation of the work, discipline, and health and safey provis  necesay to the
smooth functioning of the Agency.
Ardde 2: ledd of aplpcation
These Staff Service Rules are applicable to all employees of the Agency brought to their
aftention upon recuiment
Artile 3: AdInIsave organization of the Agec
The organization chart of the Agency is annexed to these Staff Service Rules.
The mangement of the Agency consists of
(a)   the Director General of the Agency;
(b)   the Administrative and Financial Director, and
(c)   the Technical Director.
The Director General shall be responsible for the rnning of the Agcy. He shall be
empowered to make any decision necessary for the perfrmace of his fimction in accordace with the
Sttes of the Agency.
The Administrative and Financial Director shall be responsible, under the authority of
the Director General, for the operaton of the administave, financial, acomintng and legal dep
of the A"c .
The Technical Director, under the authority of the Director Genal, sall handle work
site adminitraton and acceptance of works. He shall be responsible, under the authority of the Director



ANNEU
Annnh 2 to A1o f Aof             on
133                              Page 2 of 10
GOel, for the pefomance of works-related studies carried out by the Agency.
lbe Director General sall issue  irulas as and when needed to etablish the tncal
organiationof the task assigned to the different Diretoor.
S1CTION 1 Employment of Staff
Artcle 4: RecruItment
Without prejudice to the provisions of the Labor Act, aU rectment sh  be subject to
a written contract gned by the Director General of the Agency and th worker hired.
(a)    EligiklIIy. Candidates for a position shall be in possesion of Mi rihs of
citizenship, have reached the minim ae for enteing Into an employment
contract, and meet the physical requirm   for the posion sougt following a
mandatory medical eamination.
(b)    Recru nt. Staff shall be hired under an employment contrac, which shall
always take the form of a letter of engagement or other equivalent document,
indicating the name of the employee, date of engagement, poton to be occupied
ad agreed salary, and posly the conditin and duridon of a probaionary
perin accordance with (c) below. The employment contract dsall be sigWed
by the Diector Gener of the Agency and the emloyee. k shall further include
the following informatin:
(I)    duration of the contract; and
Qi)   address of the emloyee.
Prior to signature, the employee shall provide:
(i)    a birth certificate;
(il)    a certificate of nationality;
(ill)   a medical certificate certfying fitne  for the posion;
(iv) ajudicial record less than three months old;
(v)    proof of family status;
(vi)   proof of diplomas and degrees;
(vii)  four ID photos; and



Apadk 2 tgodW gt Aoch on
134                            Page 3 of 10
(viii) declaration of no conflict of interest refered to in Sectdon MI of the
preamble of the Mamnal of Procedures and pwved in ArIcle 7 of below.
I addition, the employee shall sipg the declaron to which referene i made In Artidle
7 below. The Agency hall maintain a file on ech employee.
Arbde S: Probatonary peiod
All employment contracts sball include a probationary period that may be extended up
to the maximum of six months permitted by Article ........... of the Labor Act.
Ade. 6: Grading and remuneradon
The grading and remuneration of paid staff shall be fixed In accordance with the position
occupied and the holder's regized skills, In accordance with the provisions of the Labor Act.
Artile 7: Confficts of hntst
The pesonnel of the Agency may not, eiher directy or indirecdy, hold any interst or
exercise any function in public or private ituons or enterprises likely to have relaton with the
Agecy or to beeft from its actvites. In w  case may Agency personnel receive rraton,
commusions, fees or allowances in the form of benefits, in cash or in kind, from the public or private
institutions or enterprses referred to above.
Upon recriment, Agency pesoel sll sign an honor declaration Ulstig any of their
Inters,   i   or holdings      might be icmpatible with the priniple of absence of conflict
of Itrest set forth in ts artidle. A period of one month sball be allowed to enable newly recruited staff
to divest temselves of such co e, hiterests or holdings, failure to do so rsultig in canclon
of their appoitment.
Any untue declaration or fallure to furnish a declaration Ihall be regaded as a major
intance of noncompliance witi the Ageicy's requIements and shall automatically enail dismisa of the
employee concerned witout preudice to any damages to which the Agency may be entied.
SECTION 1  Mana        t Princples
Ardte 8:    Objeete
Where persone mangement is concned, the Agency shall be admnistered in
acrdanc with the principles of management by objective.



ANNE 
Amdlx 2 to Artlles of Amdatlon
135                             Page 4 of 10
(A)   Definition of managenent by objective
Management by objective is a systematic effort of vcrtical task enhancement to enable
Directors and employees, within their sphere of responsibility, to help attain their ornizationts
objectives. This is a process by which supervisors and subordinates, at all administaive levels, come
together and set the goals to be attained by the subordinate over a certain porod of time, these goals
falling direcdy within the framework of the organiztion's overaU objectives. A progress review is
carried out on a preestablished date to evaluate actual achievements In relation to projected outoomes.
(B)   Procedure for Issuance of a yearly statement of objectives
Each year, at the begiming of the annual cycle, each Director or supervisor shall receive
his statement of annual objectives; this yearly cycle runs from January 1 to December 31.
(1)    This enables the Director General to:
(a)   let staff members know what is expected of them;
(b)    help them perform their work efficiendy;
(c)   'lentify those staff who are capable of assuming greater responsibilities;
(d)   remunerate them in accordance with their contributions; and
(e)    penalize their failures.
(2)    It enables the employees to know:
(a)    how their work is evaluated; and
(b)    what they can expect as a result of the prformance review.
(3)   It is therefore necessary to implement a program that:
(a)    allows each employee to be informed, at least once a year, of his supervisor's
documented opinion of the results of his work;
(b)    encourages supervisors to counsel their subordinates on their indhivd
development (improvement of performance, possible promotion); and
(c)    serves as the basis for application of the policy of mert-based salary increases.



ANNU
Apendlx 2 to Artcles of AnsocIatlo
136                            Page S of 10
(4)   Process:
(a)    At the begining of the annual cycle, the Director General of the Agency shall
meet with the entire staff and set out the overall mission and objectives of the
Agency for the year to come and for the entire duration of the project. The
overal objectives thus involve a multi-year projection and are mutidimensional
in nature.
(b)   He shall also establish an individualized statement of objectives for staff
members.
(c)    Directors shall arrange a meeting with the entire staff and discuss with them the
objectives of their units; this shall involve a presentation and explanation of the
objectives of the office or department, which shall be the basis for individual
objectives. lhey should then personally intrview each employee to discuss the
organization of his work, potential problems, and unavoidable obstacles, with a
view to reaching an agreement on his own individual objectives and defining the
criteria for evaluation of his performance. All of this shall be recorded, in
summary fashion, in a document serving as an Annual Statement of Objectives.
Section IV         Evaluation procedure
Article 9:    Evaluation
The evaluation procedure is constituted by three procedures
(i)    Self-Evaluation
(ii)   Evaluation at the end of the annual cycle
(iii)  Personnel evaluation tables
(A)   Self-evaluation
The self-discipline contemplated in the method of management by objective is a significant
source of motivaion. Self-discipline relies, in effect, on the hypothesis that the workers are accounble
and that they want to help attain objectives; it is up to them to discipline themselves with regard to the
means and measures they will use in order to do so. By referring to his statement of objectives, each
employee can verify whether he is on schedule or not, and on this basis make the necessary decisions. In
this way, without awaiting the end of the annual cycle, he is able to evaluate himsef and, if necessary,
seek the opinion of his supervisor. For this purpose, he shall use the achievement analysis form.
(B)   Evaluation at the end of the annual cyde
At the end of the anmual cycle, each employee is interviewed by his supervisor; the
supervisor presents his evaluation of the employee's performance in relation to the objectives, but in terms
of the overall evaluation, he takes into account other factors that could have a positive or negative bearing



ANN4
Agpedix 2 to Artiles gf Amodatlou
137                            Page 6 of to
on the proper operation of the department as a whole. Tne employee acknowledges his evauaon and may
make his own comments on it. His signature shows that he has nted his performnce ratg but It does
not mean that he approves it. Performance ratings for Agency staff (cf. perfomance evaluation form) ar
as follows:
1.    OUTSTANDING
2.    VERY GOOD
3.    GOOD
4.    NEEDS IMPROVEMENT
5.    UNSATISFACTORY
All ratings shall be approved by the Director General of the Agency.
(C)   Personnel evaluation tables
These sheets are used to evaluate staff performances (see Appendix 1 to 3 to Staff Svce
Rules).
(1)    Self-Evaluation Form: Achievemer Analysis (Appendix I attached);
(ii)   Evaluation Form: Assessing overall performance (Appendix 2 attached); and
(iii)   Performance Evaluation Form: Summarzing the ana  performance review
process (appendix 3 attached).
SECTION V  Personnel  a emet
Article 10: Saly
Ekulmta. Salaries shall be paid on the last day of the month, by bank tsfer, by check
or in cash. Each salary payment shall be accompanied by a pay slip drawn up and certfied by the
employer and isued to the worker at the time of payment. The Agency sball keep a reoord of saay
payments in the same way as It keeps the accounts. Each worker shall sigp the salary payents rord
when he receives his pay. Requests for explanations or information or any claims or complaints concer0ing
pay shall be addressed to the Administrative and Financial Director through the appropriate channs.
(1)    ar.a ad p- An employee's grading and pay shall depend on the position to be
occupied and on skills recognized in conformity witi legislative and regulatory provisions.
(2) Increase in ml=. In general, salary increases are based on merit, In direct reaton to the
peformance rating at the end of the annual cycle. Only those receiving peformance
raings of one and two as provided for in Section m below can expect a salary icre
within the limitons of the approved budgets. No across-the-board increases shake
place except when decided by the Government.



Appendix 2 to Articles of Asscio
138                            Page 7 of 10
(3)    &ecial botuses. In addition, bonuses shall be paid to outstanding performers after the end
of each annual cycle, i.e. December 31:
(a)   for performance rating 1: 125% of monthly salary (excluding allowances);
(b)   for performance rating 2: 105% of monthly salary (excluding allowances);
(c)   for other performance ratings: no bonus.
ArIde 11: Benefits
The salary includes fringe benefits, costs or charges relating to lodging, transportation and
responsibilities.
Ardcle 12: Work Week
The work week, set at forty (40) hours, shall be subdivided into six (6) working days
runing from Monday to Saturday, inclusive. The work day shall be set at eight (8) hours, except for
Friday when it will be five (5) hours and Saturday when it will be three (3) hours. These working hours
may be changed or adjusted by the Director General in accordance with the exigencies of the works
organization. Any such change shall be announced in advance.
Article 13: Overtime
AUI hours worked in excess of the work day set in Article 8 above shaU constitute overtime
and give entlement to compensation calculated according to the regulations in force. Supervisory staff
are not entitled to benefit from this provision. Overtime may only be worked with the Director General's
consent.
ArIcle 14: Leave entitlement
Every worker shall acquire leave entitlement after a period of twelve (12) months of actual
sepvice, referred to as the 'reference period.t A worker may postpone his leave, subject to agreement
between the parties, but the period of acual service may not exceed three (3) years. An employee is
expected to take the leave to which he is entitled unless the exigencies of the service do not so permit.
Leave may not be accumulated two years in a row. Department Directors shall draw up the leave charts
for the staff under their authority, making these known to the Director General ahead of time.
Article 15: Confinement Leave
(a)    Any female officer on permanent appointment finding herself pregnant shall report at once
to an authroized medical officer and shall, on the production of a satisfactory medical
certificate be granted leave for a period of 3 months calculated to cover six weeks before
and six weeks after conftement;



AgMedIx 2 to A$ldee of Amedatlo
139                            Pape 8 eof 
(b)    A female employee who is on probation Is not entitled to confiement leave but shal be
granted leave without salary for a period not exceeding 3 months.
Article 16: Absences
Peomel shall notify their Immedie supervin advace of all abseces. incudg
absences on official busine. Absees due to  c    shall be cerified by a physicia approved by the
Agency and the rdevant crficates shall be submitted to the departmen conened withi forty-eIght (48)
hours. Prior writte authorization shall be obtaied for any other absences.
Artile 17 TardIn
Late arivals shall be justfied to the immediate supeisor. Repeated Wtine  may be
consdered an occupational inadequac sufficien to warrant dimissal of the employee concened.
ArIcle 18: Rules conerning employee behavior
Employees shall avoid any behaior likely to disrupt work in the Agency's offices or an
sites or premises where they are required to act for the Agency's account. Persons not belonging to
Agency staff shall not be permitted in the Agency's offices except on official business. Personal visits Shll
not be pemitted. All persons not belonging to Agency staff saWI be required to obseve the oblig_to
of confidentiality, impartiity and discipline that are generally applicable to civil sevants.
Laborers and drivers shall leave their tools, equipment and vehicles aftr workn hours
in the places designated for that pupose by their immediate supeiors. Use of Agec eqipmn aft
working hours or for purposes other than official business shall not be pemitted. Ihtof
persons or things unconnected with the official business of the Agency is formally proited. In te evut
of an accident, the Agency shall accept no liabiity with respect to third paties.
Arcle 19: Plies for violatons of the Staff Service Rules
The penaides for violation of these Staff Serice Rules are graded in accordance wh th
seriousness of the violation as follows:
-     vetbal comment wih no record in the employee's file;
-     verbal comment with record in the employee's file;
-     warning;
-     reprimand;
-     provisional dismissal wfit suspension of salary; and/or
-     dismsal.
Ardcle 20: Notlecaton and deisen authority of the Director General
ITe Director General shall be regularly wtdfied of penlties Imposed on employees by ther
immediate superiors. Only the Director General shall be authorized to decide on provisional or pm_



mA
Agpnx 2 to   _des of Amdatlon
140                            Page 9 of 10
dismissal.
Artddle 21: Claims and complaints
Claims and complaints on the part of employees are to be submitted to their Immediat
superlors in the first istance. If the superior does not respond within one mont or the employee Is not
satsfied with the response, the employee can take his claim or complaint to the Director General. Claims
and complaint shall always be submitted in writing.
Ardcle 22: TermInation of contract
The party taking the iiative in terminatig a contract shall give writt notice withi te
legal or contractual period. However, pursuant to the Labor Act, the probation period may be termi d
at any time by either of the pardes without prior notice. Resignations and dismissals shall be subject to
the applicable laws and regulations in force in The Gambia.
ArtIle 23: Safety rules
Each worker shal observe the regulations for the prevention of indutri accidents and
occupational diseases, with particuar attention to the health and safety rules posted in the work place. Any
violation of these rules shall be grounds for application of the penalties listed in Article 15.
Arcle 24: Aeidents
Any industi  accident involvig the Agency shall be reported immediatdy to the
Administrative and Financial Director, who shall oversee the proceedings for contacting the Social Seau*y
and Housng Fnance Corporadon (SSHFC) and, if need be, the inuance companies concemed.
Ardile 25: Staff Sevice Rules
These Staff Service Rules shall form part of the Memoranndum   d Articles of Associadon
and dsall constue in accordance with its provision.
Done in Banjul,
The Director General of GAMWORKS
Atuhment : Appendix 1 - Self-Evaluation Form
Appendix 2 - Evaluation Form
Appendix 3 - Peformance Evaluation Form



ANNEX 4
Appendix 2 to Artldes of AssoebUon
141                Page 10 of 10
OReANOAU^Y0 Ca"JRT
Director Genera
Secretary (1)
FINJADMIN.<          TECHNICAL           PUB. RELATIONS
_ DlRECIOR  plRECTORAT  TRAINING OFF.
FinJAdmin. Director   -Tech. Director      PR & Training Officer
Consuants
Aocountant (1)     -Mun. Engineer (1)       Cotbois
Bene1klds
-SeoJComp. (1)      -SectiComp. ()
Junior Staff (s)
Drivers (2)
Cleaners (2)                Cn
Watchman (1)



142            Appendx 1 to Staff Service Rules
Self-evaluation Form
On this sheet, the mployee shall Indicate the eten  to which he has aeved bis Individual
objetves, and provide any comments on the positive or negative facors affectng such achievement,
whatver the cause may be.
Self-evaluation                        Comments
Curet Status of achievemeots of objecties  Explaion of lags   Corrtive action or new
__________________________________ ________________ objectves



143             Appeatx 2 to Staff SaWel Rules
Evaluation Form
1.    OUTSTANDING
2.    VERY GOOD
3.    GOOD
4.    NEEDS IMPROVEMENT
5.    UNSATISFACTORY
..............................
signature and name of supevisor        date   Employee's remark on performance
raing.
signature                              date   Approval by the Director Geneal
*.   .....    ............. .... .......
sintredt



144              AppendI 3 to Staff Service Rules
Performance Evaluation Form
Lat name:            Positon:
Given names:         Division:
Staff no.:-
Objectives for 19_    Performane                        Comments
Signae of
employee
Sigare of
SUpervisor    Date



145                           Page I of 2
TEE REPItUC OF TE GAMDI PUBUC WORIS AND CAPACITY IUWIDING
PROJECT FUND REGULATIONS
IN ED:RCISE of the powers confered on the Miister by Section 10 of the Finance ad Audit Act,
these regulations am hereby made.
1.    These regulations may be cited as the Public Works and Capacity Building Project Fumd
Regulationsll994.
2.     n these regulations *Fund* means The Public Works and Capacity Buildig Project Account
and Specia Account; and 'Project' means tho Public Work and Capacy Buflding Project.
3.    The Fund all cons  of the following monies:
a)    subsidies, grants, requests or gift frm the Government, public athorities or public
interest associations, or from any freigp orgaization or Govemment, within limits
compatble with current leglation.
b)    proceeds of loans;
c)    donadons from any body or person specifically designated as credi of the Fund; and
d)    monies eaned by or received In           of any project fInanced from the
Fund.
4.    Monies in the Fund shall be applied exclusively to the eecution of public works, senrices and
other activities iuded in the Project.
5.    At the beginning of each financid year, the Miiste of Finance shaU issue warrants
authorizig expendiure for that year from the Fund.
Provided that the amount so authorized shall not exceed the balace of the Fund:
And provided further tht supplemntary warrants may be similarly issued in the course of
any financial year up to the amount of the latest esmates of the unspent balae in the Fund.
6.    The Provisions of the Financial Instructions shalU not apply to any financ  tnuctis
appertaining to the Fund.
7.    In order to perform a digosis of the set of procedurs and mehnisms used by the Ageny,
a quarterly financial management and technica audit shall be perfore to verify tha the
project objectives are accomplished.



146                           Page 2 of 2
8.    Accounts of the Fund  al be audited by a Ptrvat Audor folowIig the Tem  of Reference
for fnani and magemet audit aannxd to the Manua of Procedue and prented t the
Aditor General wih ecepton to the prvisins of Ston 16 and 17 of the Finance and
Audit Act.
Made ths        day of                 1993.
MIN1SRY OF FINANCE AND
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS



Annex
147                                  Page 1 11
PROJECTCOSTSUMAARY
9.1 Detaled C  0ss (D'000)     Detailed C     (USm000)    Forelgn
CA1ESXRY                       j9~  ~I0NLOCAL   TOTAL      LOCAL  FCFEN    TOTAL    as %
PU5UOVYDRI                      50,842  16,853   67,795    65,59     1.852    7.450   25%
OESIGNANDSULI WSON               8,290   2,002   10,292       011     220    1,131   19%
TATOCONTRACTOAtS                 2.557    683    3,240        281       76     356   21%
TRAINNG                          3,349    200    3,549        368      22      390   8%
tX tUNflY VPARTICIPATION         2,434    206    2,639        288      23      290   8%
MONVMRFJG                        1,411     164    1,574       155       1 8    173   10%
ALDm1NG                          1.174    410    1,83         1 29     45      174  20%
TOTAL                           60.692  18.104   78.797     7,710    2,265  0,6    23%
HiK*NAYSETORSTURW                 473   1,001    1,474         52      110     162   68%
PCURIWACTON PLANSlU               264     592      855         29      a6       94   69%
CON8WlUCIONSEIORSTUDY             309   1,092    1,401         34      120     154  78%
TOTAL                            1.047   2,685   3,731        115     295      410   72%
SALAUES                          3,767      0    3,767        414        0     414   0%
RENTAND FSS                      1,347      0    1,347        148        0     148   0%
SEwimY                            391       0      391         43        0      43   0%
SUJPRES                           264     391      655         29      43       72   60%
RU.L                              592       0      592         65       0       65   0%
HSL11VI                           100       0      100         1 1      0       1 1   0%
TRAVLEXPENSE8                     137      137     273         15       15      30   50%
AONLMSU                           410       0      410         45       0       45   0%
o1HR                              118       91     209         13       10      23   43%
TOTAL OPERAI1O COST              7,12     6t19    7,744       783       680    8s1   8%
OFFICEREHA1 & NTALLATION          182      137     319         20       15      35   43%
OFERAPRITURE                     155       91     246         17       10      27   37%
VEHKIES                             0     628      528          0       58      68  100%
COMPIJffiS                         .0    400       400          0      44       44  100%
SOFTWARE                          237       91     328         26       10      36  28%
TOTAL EQIDPMENT                   573   1,247    1,820         63      137     200   69%
TOTALBASECOSTS                  78.902  25,066  103,968     8,671    2,755   11,425  24%
PRICEONTGBENCIES        3.8      3,194   1,128    4,323       351      124     475  26%
TOTALPROJECrCOST                82,096  26,114  108,290     9.022   2.879  11.900   24%
PPFWRFNWANO                      3.822   1,638    5,460       420      180     600   30%
PARALLUJ,lfFIONNCEDPVRK8         9,555   8,645   18,200     1.050      960    2,000  48%
TOTALPROORMMCOSTS               95.473  36,477  131,950    10.492    4,009  14,500  28%



148                           Annex S -B
PROJECTIPLEMAENTA7ION SCHEDULE                  Pae 1 of 1
F _nnca Forecast (US$WO)
IT !              'A JOFTarAL
PUBUC WOKKS                   250   2,442   3,010   3,823         9,626        66%
IDA                           250   1,655   2,020   2,500         6.426        44%
EENERCJi E3 a3                         312     460     628        1,300        9%
DONCRS                                 476     530      796       1.800        12%
DESOMNANDSUPERVISION           25      335     436     536        1,331        9%
IDA                             26     265     305      346        931         6.4%
BGNEP4W$VM43                           560      a5       85        200         1.4%
DONCR5                                  30       65    106         200         1.4%
TA TOCONTRACTORS                25     109     121      126        381         2.6%
TRAININ                         20     120     136      136         410        2.8%
COMMUNhfYPARTIKPA11CN           15     120      95       75        305         2.1%
MCNrNORtJ                               55      60       58         173        1.2%
AUDITNG                                 S6      59       50         174        1.2%
TOTAL                           60     469     470      444       1,443       10.0%
IDA                             60     469     470     444        1,443       10.0%
HK#NAYSETORSTUDY                       112      60                  162        1.1%
PROCUREMENTAfCTON PLAN STUDY            94                          04         0.6%
CONSTRUCTlONSETiRSTUDY                 107      47                  154        1.1%
TOTALSTUDIES                   140     313      97                  650        3.8%
IDA                            140     313      97                 550
OPERATINGOCSTGAMWORKS           45     260     283      308         090        6.2%
IDA                             45     260     283     308         896
EOUPMENTGAMWORKS                45     135      46      20         245         1.7%
IDA                             46     136      45      20         245
TOTALGAUWORKS                   90     396     328     328        1,141         8%
CONnNGENCES                     35     144     151      180         510         4%
IDA                             35     144     151      180        510
TOTALcoNnOENIES                 35     144     151      180        S10          4%
TOTALPROJECTCOST               600   4,098   4,491   5,311       14,500        100%
TOTAL IDA                      600   3,231   3,371   3,798       11,000        76%
TOTALBENEPNAREEGOMTG                   362     526      613       1.500        10%
TOTALDONORS                            506     595    9oO         2,000        14%
%                         L4%    28%        31%      37%       100%
CUMULATIVE                    4%    32%     63%    100%
Otl^URSuEN IDA           6%    29%      31%     35%
CUMULATIVE%                   6%    35%     65%    100%



Pmblic Wk*bs *d  ty Dun Pect                                                                             ANNE 6.C
Page 1 of I
'    1993  Is1994                   _     9           .9                    1997
quleas   1  2    3   4      1   2    3   4    1   2   3    4          1   2    3          1  2
OAMWORKSsetm                          _   *                                                         - 
Board Presentadon                             _
Proj,ectlff etivenes,
SubprojectDesigWSupevislon       __
Worksaevice                                          -----                                                           
Thiningrlech. Support Contractos                      .  _    _                 _             -
Trainingfrech. Suppor Consultts                  l                             -       _
Deadline Annual Work Program Prop. __
Community Participation Actions                _               -
Jfrastue Management Study        _   -
Construction Development Study
Poement Action Plan Study                                                                      -    - _   =.
Mid-Term Review
Closing Date



150                                 Page I of 5
DRAFT TRAWNING ACTION PLAN.
lbe tWang actio plan povides details on ihe program and explains the goas to be
dJ'C P noudw durn the vaious stages of te project, so as to make clear:
*  lb. idea behind each module and the elaboration of Its contn.
*  The organizaon of the semin
*  The evauatio of the proams afa tei  cution, to deti  teir successes In meeting
de goals ideified.
L     Mdm edofy d the Trainng Acton plan
To meet hese goas It is proposed to conact out the traig to local trainig experts. These
la      ing ewperts will be in dcarge of framing 1he pedagogical apch and the organizadon of the
semin    Amn=g ihe          wl be induded.
  A tainn speciist In busness administation.
*  A  aiing expert in ono_ 1  apo h    biddin for *t public works project's
contrs.
*  A trai    expert   specificaly teted groups of lab .
To th ext  possible, it is beig r   ed  that this team of exper be selected on a
n_onl or sub-egional bas. The Stining program will be carried out wiih the suport of a local
Trainin Inatib n in order to organ  and provide the requed skills for 1he works. Mb purpose of
dat colaborton is to develop a loca capacity, which can help to identfy and respond tD the needed
thing at all lel  Pariu  attnt  wM be gien to the select  of the corp of spcalsts, with a
strong pefrence for prctcal ftrn   and exprenced cfsmen and tadesmen. They shall bo ready to
pwvide bac hands on traing to all target groups.
G.T.T.I (Gabia Tecical Train  hisdtitue) proposed that te  speciasts be in a separate
unt or be housed at fte G.T.T.. The G.T.T.I.  gestd tht a pwficiency test should be condut  for
al tadesmen and a carficate of proficiency isued at the end of 1;e training to indicate a level of
_eoem         hint   trades. ITis cerficate wi not gurnty promoton as suc  but wM be a 'passp"
to employment na the Agency's pros. ht was also dislosed at G.T.T.I. that they already have
experi  iee    ana    training of contractors. The co ants, in  odion  with the loca
traig  sdw , wM be resonsible for the  bowing ele       :
* The con    of the teahing modes
* The ln    of each aining proamlteac     module;



151                                  ANEX7
Page 2 of 5
* The frequency of the seminarsning;
T Ihe pricing of the semi /g;
* Te teaebing materials/aids used;
* Persomel proposed for the traning;
Theme training program  should be practical in nawe on al lvels in order tD minimize Ihe
sortcomings of projects' exection, which will be financed by the Agency.
The taining pgam  will provide sWpport to the following beneficiaries:
(A)   Tlrng of en    d local  ments reresentatives (and/or any otier NGO.  ssoiaton.
etc.) in  ge of nroict idenifio
One day seminas are the most appropriate way to provide assistance to the beneficiaries of the
prjet The invitation to the seminars should be addressed to beneficiades in the same category,
becaue they are categorized as shown in the record, e.g. Municipalities, Ministies, Wards, etc., where
tee seems to be a common nterest It is re  ed to copy the program schedue to each
paridcipant in the seminar for information and as a guideline.
The program is divided into main subjects. ITe main thrust of the tran  is an introduction to
the tbeme of the public works project and training modue. The instctor will come up with examples of
the works using photos, and prepare a presenttion based on these facts. The different phots  can be
copied on film for overhead ptojector presentton, explanation at deepening of questions from the
Beneficries. Th progam may include the following main subjects:
1.    Works classification.
2.    Eligibility criteria.
3.    Project procedures - application.
4.    Procedures for the selection of projects.
5.    Procedures for delegating contact management.
6.    Contractors.
7.    Contact Procedures.
8.    Works supervision.
9.    Provisona accepn  - verifications.
10.   Fmal acceptance.
11.   Accuanng system for contacts and disbursement.
12.   Information to the local population.
(B)   Trainin of Consltant
The Consultant is supposed to be an engineer, architect or a service provider external to the
Agency responsible for the feasibility studies and the work superision of a project. It is proposed that
the seminars to Beneficiaries be provided by the consultants, acting on behalf of the Agency.
The main subject is an intoductio on both topics: 'During Works execution", and 'Before
work on site. This checklist is another way of ascertaining that the consltant knows what the Agency is



'l pj ,tt,iF'ii  .ig,  i~               Lw    lii! i     't 
*   [gZ   s.         .      1
ii  $.s            1u1        st  
t    | Z  [  i                                     0X fi~~~~~~~~



ANNIK!
153                                Page 4 of S
categoty of the Gambian workre.
2.    Identification of goals to be achieved.
The goal is for contractors to be able to:
a)     Give good compeddve bids for tender.
b)    Have work to do all year round.
c)    Give more employment to laborers both skilled and unskiled.
d)    Run a good established businss.
The goal is for silled laborers to be able to:
a)     Be famiiar withthe basic elements in the skils.
b)    Better understand an instruction for executng a more complicated job.
c)    Undersa  basic drawings.
d)    Carry out simple mea n.
The goal is for unsilled labers to be able to:
a)     Understand basic safety elements on a working site.
b)    Do the most necessary work, such as concrete mixing in the right way.
c)    Execute properly the basic works, e.g. excavation of a trench after a short instruction
and to undtand the instrutdon.
3.    Evaluation  of the Performance
To assess the traing action plan re   d, it is importnt to underke annual evaluadons
tD measure levels of success.
(i)    Methodology for the measrement of the Beneficiaries' p ces:
An evaluation of a Beneficiarny's performance for upkeeping the status as such in the Agency wil be
canied out once a year, e.g. in the month of June just before a new fiscal year. nis evaluation will be
developed, but it is suggested to include the following factors as indicators:
1)    Number of projects submitted to the Agency through the year;
2)    Number of approved and executed projects;
3)    Number of rejected projects and the reasons for rejecdon,
4)    Participation in training;
5)    Funds committed on approved projects;
6)    Beneficiary's financial ad technical capability to make its mandatory contribution to
project financg, maintain the equipment insalled in a certain period of dme;
7)    Faiue to honor the commitment agreed shall render the Beneficiary ineligible for other
works or services under the IDA ProjecL



154                                  A O
Page 5 of 5
(U)    Methodology for the measurement of the Contractors' performances:
1)    Amount of training that has been offered throughout the year?
2)    Number of contractors having pardcipated in the taning?
3)    Number of tained contractrs pardcipatng in tendering of contracts, and winning
contracts?
(lii)   Methodology for the measurement of the skilled laborers performances:
1)    How much tainig has been offred throughout the year?
2)    How many skilled lborcraftsmen have participated in the traiing
3)    Is It visible on a working site that a craftsman has been to tain
(iv)   Methodology for the measuement of the unsilled laborers performances:
1)    How much training has been offered throughout the year?
2)    How many laboers have participated i the trainn
3)    Has the raining improved the performance of the laborer?



155                                ANNEU
Page I of S
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUIL)ING PROJECT
IFRASIUCTUME MAINTENANCE MANAGMENT FUDY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.  -AKGOU
Ihe Government of The Gambia (GOCrG) has applied for a Credit to finance the Public
Woras and Capacity Building Project. Ihe project's objectives are: (a) to increse the capacity of the
public sector to organize and manage efficienty Its demand for works, goods, and services; (b) to
demonstratethe feasibility of less cumbersome and more transparent procurement procedures and contract
admIisatIon; (c) to strengten the capacity of the private sector (particularly small and medium-sized
contractors, Infonnal subcontractors, and consulting firms) to design, implement and supervise a wide
range of public works, and to improve the individual sills of workers employed by contractors financed
under the project, in order to increase their long-term ability to respond to employment opporunities afer
project completion; (d) to increase the productivity of the Greater Banjul Area and its vicinity by means
of a program of urgently needed small-scale public works; and (e) to create temporary employment during
project implementation by means of labor intensive technologies, and contribute to employment creation
in the long run by showing that such technologies are indeed feasible.
Aside a small-scale public works program which, in terms of cost, represents the bulk
of the project, te project aims to develop: (a) a package of technical and managerial assistance to be
offered to contractors; (b) a training program to improve the capacity of local governments to identify
ub-projects, and the capacity of consulting firms to prepare the feasibility studies and technical project
proposals; (c) a program to disseminate information about the project; (d) a program aimed at increasing
grassroots partcipation in sub-projects identification and maitenance; (e) consulting services aimed at
closily monitoring progress under the project; and (I) studies, notably: procurement revision leading to
an action plan to uncover botdenecks in works, supervision, payments; infrastructure maintenance
management; and construction industry development.
2.    EISTING SllUATION
The maintenance of the primary and secondary roads network and public buildings is the
responsability of the Directorate of Technical Services (DIS) of the Ministry of Works and
Comnmnications (MWC). The maintenance of roads is handled by the Provincial Maintenance Division
Fast (30 staff) and West (72 staft) and the mainenance of the buildings by the Building Maintenance
Division (78 staff). In addition, these divisions are getting some help from Jhe Planning and Design
Division (42 staff), especially in case of contracting out the works (cost estimates, draft contracts,
supervision). The two provincial divisions also employ a large nuber of casual (semi-permanent)
personnel.



156                                ANEX a
Page 2 of 5
Road Maintenanc
The maintenance of the local roads is the responsability of the local councils but they do
not have neither sufficient human or financial ressources nor suitable maintenance capacity. So it is
expected that they would request MWC to execute the works against payment or hire contractors to
execute road maitnan.
The principal (maintained) road network in Ihe Gambia comprises about 500 km of paved
roads and 800 km of gsavel roads. Until the late 1970s, periodic maintenance of the gravel roads was
carried out by petty-contractors using labor intensive methods but producing low quality works. In the
1980s, IDA an EEC financed two successive highway maintenance projects, Including equipment
purchases and techical assistace, supported by a new mechanical workshop (Kotu Workshop, now
privatized) fnaced by USAID, which contibuted with force account crews to reduce the backlog of
peiodic maintece on gravel and paved roads. Construction of gravel and paved roads has always been
carried out by foreign (icluding Senegalese) contractors, or as was the case for feeder roads, by force
account managed and assisted by international consultants. At the closing of the Second Highway
Maintenance Project (SHMP) in 1992, the road network was generally in good condition but for cetain
setons being under rehabilitation contracts and very few unmaintainable road sections.
The budget allocation, now that the SHMP has closed, Is not sufficient to ensure routine
maienance. Spare parts and wearing parts for the aging equipment are lacking, as well as basic materials
such as bitumen. The small budget now made available isconsumed by salaries, wages and overhead
costs, and practicaly nothing is available for operations or contracts. There is also a need to finance
periodic maintenance to the tune of about 70 km-year for gravel roads (mainly the North Bank road in
the immediate future) and about 80 km per year for the next three years (ess afterwards) for the paved
roads (mainly the Soma-Basse road), and an overlay on the Trans-Gambia Highway plus the
reconstrction of the approaches to the Trans-Gambia ferry. Proper provisions for periodic maintenance
works will compete in the next few years with rehabilitation projects on the main Serekuda-Brikam
road, rehabilitation of additional sectis of the South Bank Road, and new investments that may be
planned such as the Coastal Roads and the North Bank Road.
During the SHMP, routine maienace has been carried out by force account crews and
petty-conturtors. Generally, all activities requiring equipment were executed on force account, although
low availability of the old truck fleet forced truck rental in the latter years, while other activities such as
grass cuting, cockle shell winning (used as pavig aggregates), laterite gravel screenig, repair and
cleaning of city drains, and cleaning, repair and construction of culverts were exectd  with petty-
contractors, at set or agreed prices. The Gambia has a ratier lengthy history of contracting out works to
petty-contrators at set rates, but the quality of contract management (setting the rates, esdmtng the
amount of work to be done, controlling the quality and quantity of the work done) is inadequate.
The MWC, responsible for the road maintenance was reorganized at the beginning of the
SHMP but the lack of high level staff in several positions prevented the re n  from being
effecdve. The shortage of staff is still acute. Technical assistance fimanced by the African Development
Bank (ADB) is expected to fill the positions of Principal Engineer (30 in-rn), Executive Engineer (20m-
m), Mechanical Engineer  J  :n-m), Quandty Surveyor (24 m-mi), Transport Advisor (12 m-m),
Transport Economist (18 rn-m) and Transport Engineer (18 m-mi) following a consultation that was
launmched in April 1993, while at least two of the Gambian staff nine  are being trained on acbment



157                              Page 3 of 5
with TAMS' Consultant in USA.
The main lessons learned from these projects are consistent with the recommendation of
the Road Maintenance Initiative of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program and can be summaid
as follows: a) appropriate resources should be allocated to road maintenance on a reguar and timely
basis and efficient programming of works should be based on sound economic considerations; b)
resources should be used more efficiently by involving the private sector; and c) the road authority should
be strengthened and apprpiate contract management practices should be adopted.
The maintenance of public owned building has been historically undetaken by the then
Public Works Department (now DTS) on a force account basis. Towards the end of the seventies, part
of this function started to be transferred to privaxte contractors. rne Buiding Maintenance Division has
a budget of D2,386,000 (1992/93), mainly allocated for maintenance and rehabilitation of government
offices and quarters and used in great part on govenment owned residences.
3.    OBJECTI          OF THE PRESIENT D
The GOTG has decided to improve the delivery of road and building maitenance and
sees partial or complete concing out of the execution as a likely solution. The Ministry of Works and
Communications (MWC) administration would be transformed from an execution agency into a planning
and contract management entity. The possibility of delegating the contract management and work control
to a private executing agency of the type that is being created under the Public Works and Capacity
Building Project (PWCBP), or even the same agency suitably developped if economy of scale or
organizational critical mass warrant it, is also envisaged.
TBe objective of the present study is to determine ways to improve the capacity and
efficiency of the MWC in the management of the road network and the public buildings and their
maintenance, and to elaborate an action plan to implement the policy.
Based on the consensus assessment of the existng situation, it is expected that this policy
will include increased reliance on the private sector for the execution of the works. An action plan for
the development of the construction industry will be elaborated under a separate component of the
Project.
4.    DETAILED SCOPE OF CONSULTNG STUDIES
4.1    General. Ihe Consultant will work with the MWC management senior staff. He wil assist the
Administration in preparing an Infrastucture Sector Management Policy/Strategy, and an action plan to
implement it.
The proposal will address the repartition of the responsibilities between central government
(MWC) and the local Governments, the role of the various administrations in planning the execution and
the supervision of the investment and maintenance activities, the role of the private sector and the
government force account in the infrastructure mantenance, the fuding and the dminatin of the
priorities relatively to the availability of funds.



158                                ANNEX1
Page 4 of 5
The Consultant will assist the Administration in preparing a strategy and the action plan
necessary to implement the Policy. The action plan will include a description of the measures that wi1l
be undertaken in order to materialize the policy, an assessment of the complementary studes, the
assistance that may be required, and the identification of the legal aspect.
4.2   Stage 1: Preparation of draft Policy Statement and Action Plan
Review existing sitaion. In close collaboration with MWC senior staff, finalize draft highway
management policy statement and draft building management policy statement. Prepare brief
initial description of action plan that will be required to implement the policy and tentative
calendar; private sector development, substitution of the force account, disposal of equipment,
appropriate funding procedures, social program for affected workers, implementation of HDM
m model or similar economic model, etc.
4.3   Stage 2:      Peparation of draft final Policy Statement and Action Plan
Prepare detiled action plan. For each of the main actions that are envisaged prepare a step by
step description of the sub-set of actions that are required, identify the entities (agencies,
personnel, type of assisstance, etc) likely to be involved and a sub-set calendar. The detailed
action program shall in each case be based on a thorough and precise evaluation of all the factors
involved. If these are insufficiently known, the Consultant shall define and retommend the
requisite study complements necessary for the completion of the action.
S.    REPORTS AND 3MNE SCHEDIU
A team will be set up with international consultant(s) and local consultant(s). lhe study is
expected to take approximately 4 man-months of international consultant. The local consultant will be
appointed for a two-month period, starting 15 days prior the arrival of the intenational consultant, in
order to gather all information and data available in the field.
Stage one:    at the issue of which will be published the initial draft Policy Statement and summary
action plan, will be completed one month after the comencement of the study.
Stage two:    at the issue of which the draft final report wiUl be issued will last an additional 2.5
months. Govemment will then review the report over a period of approximately 2
months. Govermment's final comments will be forwarded to the Consultant 2.5 months
after the draft final report publication. The Consultant will then have two weeks to
review the remarks and to prepare the final report.
The resulting study calendar is as follows:
Month t+ 1. Review of existing situation. Preparation of Policy Statement. Prepararation of brief
initial description of action plan required to implement the policy and tentative calendar.
Month t+3.5 Publish draft final report.



A19EX 8
159                                Page 5 of 5
Month t+3.S Government review. Transmission of comments to Consultant.
to t+5.5
Month t+6.0. Publication of final report.
6.  QILGATN  OF THE GQOERMNT
Ihe GOTG wil identify and inventory or describe the location and, in as much as
possible, the degree of completeness and the reliability of all pertinent data and information necessary
for the study (organizaion chart, road inventory, legal texts, equipment inventory, personnel records)
before the start of the study.



160                                ANX  g
Page I of 4
CONSTRUCTION INDUSMRY DEVELOPMENT STUDY
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.    BACKGROUND
The Goverment of The Gambia has applied for a credit to finance the Public Work and
Capacy Bufldig Project Te project's objectives are: (a) to increase the capacity of the public sector
to organize and manage efficiently its demand for works, goods, and services; (b) to demonstrate the
feasibility of less cumbersome and more transparet procurement procedures and contract administration;
(c) to strengthmen the capacity of the private sector (particulaly small and medium-sized contractors,
informal subcontracors, and consulting firms) to design, implement and supervise a wide range of public
works, and to improve the individual skldls of workers employed by contractors financed under the
project, in order to increase their long-term ability to respon to employment opporAtities after project
completion; (d) to increase the productivity of the Greater Banjul Area and its vicinity by means of a
program of urgently needed small-scale public works; and (e) to crea  temporary employment during
project implementation by means of labor intensive technologies, and contribu  to employment creation
in the long run by showing that such technologies are indeed feasible.
A small-scale public works program will, in terms of cost, represents the bulk of the project, i.e.
approximately US$7.5 million over a threeyear period. The project also aims to develop: (a) a package
of tecnical and managerial assistance to be offered to contactors; (b) a training program to improve the
capacity of local governments to identify sub-projects, and the capacity of consulting firms to prepare the
feasibility stdies and technical project proposals; a program to disseminate information about the project;
(c) a program aimed at increasing grassroots participaion in sub-projects identification and maintenance;
(d) consulting services aimed at closely monitoring progress under the project; and (e) studies, notably:
procureent reform leading to an action plan to uncover bottlenecks in works, supervision, payments;
frastructure maienance management; and construction industry development.
2.    OBJECrIVP,S OF T-IE PRESENTSTD
The domestic constuction industry, which had developed reasonably well since independence,
has been deeply hurt by the sharp drop in funding of the investment program. The Government
implemented in ith first Five Year Plan (1975176 - 1979/1980), a strategy for the constuction sector. The
aim was to develop the capacity of industry, by means of improved waining, both technical and
managerial and by transfefring work previously carried out by the Public Works Department (PWD) to
the private sector. The PWD's role has chaged, but training programs have not shown evidence of
success. Building materials drawn from local resources were a fuiher concern of the Plan.
The construcdon industry is almost totally demand-driven by the private sector. There are a very
large nunber of small contractors (80%). Approximately 50% of housing in The Gambia is constucted
by petty contractors - generally one person, normally a mason or other skiUed worker, who has a group
of other unskilled and semi-skilled tradesmen who work together on an informal basis. Workers are paid
on a daily basis and prices for contracts are based on informal estimates and lump sums rather than bill



161                                 ANNEX-9
Page 2 of 4
of quantities.
In the road sector, hee is only one large and well-equipped entrprise, a subsidiary of a Senegalese
company, worling wnth exnal financing. The sma1l amount of funds dedicated to this type of work by
MWC and the municipaltes (public command), does not allow small- and medium-sized firms to really
Landle road rehabilitation and maintenance works. Most firms focus their activities on snmall- and medium-
sized building constuction, drainage works and small road repair under private command. Their financial
constraints and lack of heavy equpment also prevent them from executing more siable public works such
as road paing. On the demand side, the public sector is predoinant but t"e Government's procurement
proedures and contract administration practices have tradiionaily prevented 'from having an effective role
vis vis the construction industry.
The foretr-n and constuction specialists who traditionally are the core of the Gambian cosruction
industry are Senegdese. Often, nationals are either owners of firms or unskilled workers. Employers have
tied to replace Senegalese workers with Gambian nationals. So far, the result has been usMaactry, with
both employers and customers complaiing about low quality work and low productivity. Tbe hiring and
empokying of nationals is hampered by the fact that few trainig schemes are offered in the construction
sector.
The problems afcting medaum and small-sized contractors vary with their size, but have many
common eements. There is difficulty in obtaning loans for the purchase of equipment and for first stage
material loans on Government contracts. Delays in progress payments by clies are a firuter problem. In
the recent past, complaints have related to the periodic shorge of materials. Since the liberalization of the
economy, the supply of the needed material is no longer a problem.
The general objectve of this study is to draft an acion plan in order to expand the number of
quaified contractors for securing an acceptable work force able to cope with the demand created by the
PWCBP. Tbe secondary objective of this study is to help develop a more efficient domestic road and
iding construction/cotactig industry. The coutant will be in charge of: (I) identifying and examining
the current consrints impding the growth of the conscton industry; (ii) proposing a policy for its
development (oog term goal) and developing a specific action plan and short term meaes. Separate
sudies will be carried out during the same time on procurement revision and infrastructure maintenance
management.
3.    DETAIE  SC0P- OF CONSULTN  STUDIES
The Consult  will carry out the following tasks:
kIentify or design, within the GOTG, a pennanent representation (national committee) for
the intest of the Goverment in all matus related to the construction industry or for
commnicating with and supportng the domestic consution industry;
-     identify reform needed in the GOTG organization to enhance communication and support
to the industry;
-     review existng legal and regulatory framework for public proement and contract
management;



162
162                                Page 3 of 4
examine and update the fndingp of a previous 'Study for Contracting Out Road
Main e Works in The Gambia" (Lavalin lternational, Nov.1991), and other sudies
idenfing the major problems of local and international constucion contractors in The
Gambia;
assess the current and potenial situation of the local contractors, esdmate the suitable size
and comlexity of works of each typ that the contactors can carry out, and estabish a new
register for conactors;
assess the potental for the establishment of an fecive conactor's association and identify
improvement for Chamber of Commerce management;
draft an action plan for improving the efficiency of construction enterprises and for
supporting measures to address the constaints identified;
propose ways and means in order to help new/young entrepreneurs without years of
profesional or commercil experience to obtain guaranty bonds;
propose imrvement of legiton (nl. duty and taxation regime, porement and
procedures); and
- ientify trai    needs and propose a program for providing training and as_ss e to the
conetrctors.
4.   EQRIEPTS   IMM SCEDUL
Ateatmwil be set up with interadonal consultn(s) and local consutant(s). The study is expected
to ta    el aImatey 3 man-months of interntional consultants. The local consutant will be appointed for
a two-month period, sarti  15 days prior to the arrival of the interational cooutant, in order to gather
al informaon and data  aiable in the field
Stage one:    at the issue of which will be pUlise the initial draft Review of exitg  situation, which
wil be completd one month aft the commencement of the stady.
Stage two:   the draft Policy Siatement and summary action plan will be issued and will last an additional
1.5 months. Government will then review the report over a period of approximately 2
months. Government's final comments wil be forwarded to the consultant 2.5 months after
the draft final report publication. The consulant will then have .wo weeks to review the
remarks and to prepare the final report.
Month t+ 1    Review of emstig situation. Preparation of Policy Statment Prepartion of brief initial
descripton of acton plan required to implement the policy and teative calendar;
Month t+2.5 Publish draft final report. Preparation of Poliqy Statement. Preparatin of brief initial
description of action plan required to implement the policy and trWtive calendar;
Month t+2.5
to t+4.5      Government review. Trnsmission of comment to consultant;



ANNIOU
163                                Page 4 of 4
Month t+S.O Publication of final report
5.  OBLIgATtON        F M
Ihe GOTG will idendfy and inentory or describe the location and, in as much as posible, the
degree of completenes ad the reliability of all rtinet data and infomaton necessary for the s
(organizaio  chart, road invenory, legal texts, equipment inventory, personnel records), before the start
of the study .



164                              ANN"
Page 1 of 3
THE GAMBIA
PUBLIC WORKS AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
PUBLIC SECTOR PROCUREMENT STUDMY
DRAFT TERM OF REFERENCE
1.  BACKQQND
Ihe Government of The Gambia has applied for a Credit to finance the Public Works and
Capacity Building Project. The project's objectives are: (a) to increase the capacity of the public sector
to organize and manage efficiently its demand for works, goods, and services; (b) to demonstrate the
feasibility of less cumbersome and more transparent procurement procedures and contract aminion;
(c) to strengthen the capacity of the private sector (particularly small and medium-sized contractors,
infomal subcontractors, and consulting firms) to design, implement and supervise a wide range of public
works, and to improve the individual skills of workers employed by contractors financed under the
project, in order to increase their long-term ability to respond to employment opportunities after project
completion; (d) to increase the productivity of the Greater Banjul Area and its vicinity by means of a
program of urgently needed small-scale public works; and (e) to create temporary employment during
project implementation by means of labor intensive technologies, and contribute to employment creation
in the long run by showing that such technologies are indeed feasible.
Aside a small-scale public works program which, in terms of cost, represents the bulk
of the project, the project aims to develop: (a) a package of technical and managerial assistance to be
offered to contractors; (b) a taining program to improve the capacity of local governments to ideify
sub-projects, and the capacity of consting firms to prepare the feasibility studies and technical project
proposals; a program to disseminate information about the project; (c) a program aimed at increasing
grassroots participation in sub-projects identification and maintenance; (d) consulting services aimed at
closely monitoring progress under the project; and (e) sudies, notably: procurement reform leading to
an action plan to uncover bottlenecks in works, supervision, payments; infastructure maintenance
managemenlt; and construction industry development.
2.    PROCUREMENT-REMST
lhere is an increasing awareness among local authorities, project directors and donors
active in The Gambia that procurement is now one of the major problems affecting project
implementation. In most cases, the dysfunctioning of the Major Tender Board and the lack of training
in procurement and disbursement are cited as the main obstacles, as well as the inadequate use of
decentralized Tender Boards.
A two-fold approach for enhancing procurement pracwce has been designed: (i)
identification of current bottlenecks and diagnosis on the public procurement legal framework; and (ii)
identification of an action plan for pertinent procurement reforms and the development of sound and
efficient procement practices, to be implemented during the Economic Management SECAL currently



165                               ANX1
Page 2 of 3
under preparation.
The first phase of the whole study has been undertaken by a consultant who assisted the
(ffice of the President in identifying bottlenecks in the public sector procurement procedures for works,
consultants (feasibility and technical studies, supervision of works, audits, ...) and goods. The Consultant
collected all information on the public sector procurement system and identified and examined the
principal constaints in the procurement system. The report of the Consultantis avaUable and will be
examined by the GOTG and the Bank, and discussed during PWCBP's negotiations.
nhe objectives of the present assigmnent covers the second phase of the whole
procurement study.
3.  QOBECTIVES O               PRESENT
The final terms of reference for this second phase of the procurement study should be
drafted on the basis of the meetings held during negotiations, based on the following:
Based on the findings of the first phase, and the results of the Negotiations, the
Consultant should propose an action plan for pertinent procurement reforms and the related strategy for
the Govemnment to develop sound and efficient procurement practices.
In particular, the Consultant should:
Assess futue foreasts of procurement activities;
Draft an outline procurement code for public sector procurement of works, goods
and services;
Draft an oudine of standard bidding documents
- Recommend appropriate procurement practiees for the following categories of
works, goods and services:
-     major and minor civil works
-     consultancy services
-     purchase of major materials and goods
-     purchase of lower value items
Establish tender evaluation criteria and evaluation report format for the categories
of procurement indicated above;
Identify the various elements of the current procurement procedures ad system
to be amended and/or developed;



166                              ANNE".0
Page 3 of 3
Recommend appropriate methodologies to overcome the major constraints
identified In the procurement procedures;
Recommend suitable organizational structures, decision making bodies or official
and level of authority;
-     Identify a procurement development/training programmme for government
officials including in-house courses, seminars, localfregional programmes and,
where necessary, overseas training programmes; and
-     Propose the terms of reference for compleme   studies to be undertaken
during PWCBP implementation in order to fine tune the various elements of the
action plan (e.g.: custom tariffs impact; parastatals role in award of contracts;
consolidation and shipping; importation and delivery to site; fuding/paymens;
procurement code; stndard bidding documents;...)
4.    REPORTS AN1 ) SC
A team will be set up with an international consultant and two local consultants, one
specialized in private sector and purchasing management; and the other with an extensive experience in
public sector and contract management. The international consultant will be appointed after Project
effectiveness for a two-month-period (45 days in the field and 15 days for writing his or her report).
Ewah local consultant will be appointed for a two-month period, starting 5 days prior the arrival of the
international consult, in order to gather all information and data available in the field.
A first draft report should be avaflable no later than 30 days after consultant's mission
in the field. The final report should be available 15 days after reception of the remarks on the drft
report.
S.  INPUT EROM THE GVRMN
As necessary for the purpose of the study, the GOTG will provide the Consultant with
all data reting to the current procedures and standard docum taion. The GOTG will also provide
liaison and ensure that the Consultant will have accss to all information required for the completion of
the study and wi1l benefit from the cooperation of all public entities concerned.



ANNEX11
167                               Page I of 4
PILOT PROJECT SUNMMARIES
I - REHABLITATION OF THE THE  SCIENCE LAORATORIES
IN THE GAMBIA IIIGM SCHOOL FAC IIIS IN BANJUL
1.    DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
The project comprises the rehabilitation of the three science laboratories: biology, physics and
chemistry. The laboratories will be completely rehabilitated and the new fiuriture Installed.
(Cost estmate: D)240,000).
2.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
The beneficiaries will be the teachers, who have better possibilities to teach the science
subjects and the sudents, who wil get better environment to learn the important subjects. Ihe project
wil improve the the learning environment at school and decrease the mantenance costs of the
laboratories by 10 %.
3.    SITUATION WITHOUT PROJECr
Ihe existing three science laboratories: biology, physics and chemistry (each of them is about
120 square metres) are in bad condition. 'he windows are pardy broken, the floor tiles are damaged,
the firniture has partly been broken and the electricity requires rebabiliton. Also al the wails and
ceilings have to be repaired and painted. Without repair works the studying of science subjects is very
difficlt and the future rehabiitPtion of the rooms will be more expensive. The existng maintenance
budget for the science laboratoi -s is D 40,000 per year. The total laboratory tuition fee collected
from the students using the laboratories is D 505,800 per year used for maintenance and bying
materias to laboratories. Altogether 490 students are using the science laboratories in two shifts and
the capacity is 70 % full.
E - UPGRADING OF THE LATRIKUNDA SABUI MARKEr
1.    DESCRIMPION OF THE PROJECr
The project requires constuction of the drainage system to the area (approx. 1,200 square
metres) and pavement of the market area with concrete slabs. The site is located along Bnama-
Airport road (Cost estimate: D350,000).
2.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Ihe benfciaries will be the vendors and the customen using the market. The works imrove
the hygienic condition in the market area, particularly during rainy season. Improvement will possibly
decrease the tension to the Serrekanda market area and the vendors wfll be moved from the unpaved



168                              Page 2 of 4
road area, which they are occupying at the moment to the paved area on the back side of the existing
market area.
3.    SITUATION WITHOUT PROJECT
Ihe existing market area is patly unpaved sand area and is not proper place to sell the
agricultural products and specially durn the rainy season the sittion is poor. Without paving, the
market area is during the rainy season flooding and during the dry season dusty. The existing revenue
collection in unpaved areau is Dl per day per vendor and in new areas D 2 per day. The new
investments will create totally 200 new places for vendors out of which 100 are estimated to be
newcomers. In the area of 1,200 square meters this will make increase of revenue collection from
esdmated D33,000 per year to D 266,000 per year.
m - CLEANING AND REABILITATION OF THE DRAINAGE NETWORK IN BAKAU
1.    DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
The whole drainage system in Bakau will be cleaned and rehabilitated. The work includes the
cleaning of the whole system and small rehabilitation works in order to get the existing drainage
functional. The total area of Bakau is about 0.5 square km and the length of the roads about 12 km and
the total length of the drainage system is approximately 12 km.
(Cost esdmate: D150,000).
2.    PROJECT JUSTIFCATION
The project will highly benefit the people who are living in the area and the offices and the
commercial enterprises in the area. Ihe project will improve the drainage of the area as well as wil
decrease the breedig places of malaria mosquitos. Community participation aspect for the future
maitance of the drainage will be advertised during the project in order to keep the drainage system
in condition in the future.
3.    SITUATION WITHOUT PROJECr
Most of the existing drainage gutters and outfalls in Bakau are filled by sand or solid waste. In
order to get the drainage system functioning the drainage system has to be cleaned and rehabilitated.
Without cleaning and rehabilitation of the drainage system the future cleaning and rehabilitation will be
more expensive and the flooding of the drainage system may detoriate the road structures. Without
cleaning and rehabilitation the whole drainage system has to be rebuilt within 10 years and the total cost
of the construction is D2.4 million. After rehabilitation, under yearly, proper mantnance, the drainage
network will last for 30 years.



Page 3 of 4
IV - REHABILITATION OF GRANT SMREEM DRAINAGE OUTFALL
1.    DESCRIPTON O  THE PROJECT
The project Includes reconstuction of side-walls and safety barriers, removal of accumulated
slurry from the drainage canal and construction of concrete block walls (size 2m x 2m, length approx.
'lOm) and outfal arrfagements to Grant street drainage upto he Bund polder area. Clearing of the outfall
upto the pond canal system (Cost estimate: D270,000).
2.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
The beneficiaries will be the people of Banjul living in the area and the people visiting the area.
The rehabilitation will improve the drainage system and the health conditions in the city and the malaria
incidences wiUl decrease in the area.
3.    SrTUATION WITHOUT PROJECT
The existng Grant street drainage does not work properly since the residential and landfill area
have grown towards the drainage pond and have blocked the outfalls of the drainage canal. The drainage
canal does not have proper fencing and the stagnant canal water is an ideal breeding place for mosquitos,
The existng situation threatens the health of the people and is also dangerous for children, pedestrians
and vehicles. Ihe existing estimated maintenance costs for the outfall are D 10,000 per year. After
rehabilitation the costs are estimated to be D 5,000 per year. The reilitation and reconstruction works
have to be implemented within 5 years in order to improve the situation. The total costs will increase
approximately 5% per year from the existing estimation of the costs.
V - REHABILITATION OF THE WELLESLY AND KOM30 STREET DRAINAGE
OUTFALLS
I.    DESCRPION OF THE PROJECT:
The project includes reconstruction of side-walls and safety barriers, removal of accumulated
slurry from the drainage cana and consuction of concrete block walls to Wellesly street outfall (size
Im x lm, length 140m) and to Kombo street outfall (size 2m x 2m, length SOm). At the end of the
outfalls the wing walls have to be constructed. Also the digging of the outfalls upto the pond canal system
is included to the works (Cost estimate: D 490,000).
2.    PROJECT JUSTIFCATION
The beneficiaries will be the people of Banjul. The rehabilitation will improve the drainage system
and the health conditions in the city and the malaria incidences might drop in the area.
3.    SITUATION WlTHOUT PROJECT
The existng drainage outfialls don't work properly since the residential and landfill area bave



170                               ANNE1
Page 4 of 4
grown towards the drainage bond and have blocked the outfails of the drainage system. Stagnant water
creates ideal breeding place for mosquitos and is a health hazard to the people living around. During
rainy season the drainage canal is flooding. The estimated maintenance costs of the existing outfalls are
D 20,000 per year. After rehabilitation the maintenance costs are estimated to be D 10,000 per year. The
rehabilitation and reconstruction works have to be Implemented within 5 years in order to improve the
situation. The total costs will increase approximately 5 % per year from the existing estimation of the
costs.
VI - REHABIUTTATION OF THE BAKAU HEALTH CENTRE
1.    DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECr:
The project will include the following works:
a)    rehabilitation of the existing building (about 200 m2); electrification, plumbing,
doors and windows;
b)    rehabilitation of the external works; foothpaths, drainage, septic tanks, soakaway and
water and electrical connections;
c)    reconstruction of boundary wall, gates and new toilet block. (Cost estimate: D 290,000).
2.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION:
The Bakau Health Centre is the only public maternity health centre in the area and in order to
serve the people in the area properly requires rehabilitation urgently.
3.    SITUATION WfTHOUT PROJECT:
The existing health centre has detoriated and electricity and plumbing is not working properly.
Doors, windows and flyscreens are in bad condition. In addition external works have detoriated as
drainage, sanitation systems, water and electrical connections. The area does not have fencing and the
other activities are competing of land with the health centre. Old pit latrines are in bad condition creating
health problem to the health centre. Without rehabilitation the health centre has to be rebuilt within 10
years. The estimated total new investment costs for the centre are about D 1 million . The total fee
collection is D23,400 per year and cannot be increased without official regulations. The total number of
visits is 5,600 visits per year.



