Document of
FILE COPY                          The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1818-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT
COMPOSITE PROJECT
April 22, 1976
This document has a restricted diBtrlbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at April 20, 1976)
Rs 1.00            =     Paise 100
US$1.00            =     Rs 9.01
Rs 1.00            =     US$0.1110
Rs 1 million             US$111,000
(Prior to September 24, 1975, the Rupee was
officially valued at a fixed Pound Sterling
rate. Since then, it has been fixed relative
to a "basket" of currencies. As these curren-
cies are now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Con-
versions in the appraisal report were made
at US$1 to Rs. 9.00, which was the short-term
average at the time of preparation.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOM4MENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA FOR THE ANDHRA PRADESH
IRRIGATION AND COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India in an amount equivalent to US$145 million to help finance irrigation
infrastructure and comnand area development in major irrigation systems of
Andhra Pradesh. The loan would be on standard Third Window terms of 25 years,
including 7 years of grace, with interest of 4-1/2% per annum. T'he proceeds of
the loan - except for part of on-farm development works (US$9.1 million) and
for a special project preparation and evaluation group in the Government of
India (GOI) (US$50,000) - would be channelled to the Government of Andhra
Pradesh in accordance with the Government of India's standard terms and ar-
rangements for the financing of State development projects. For on-farm
development works, GOI would relend US$9.1 million of the loan to the Agri-
cultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC, formerly ARC) for 9 and
15 years at not less than 6.75% and 7.25% per annum respectively. ARDC would
in turn on-lend the funds to the participating agricultural development banks
and commercial banks in the project area at annual interest of riot less than
7.5%. The participating banks would relend the funds to farmers with repay-
ment periods of 12 years for normal lending and 15 years for lending to small
farmers, commencing after 2 years of grace, at 10.5% interest per annum for
secured loans and 1% to 4% higher for Special Land Development Loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1073-IN dated March 29, 1976), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 2, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 states
with a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's
poverty and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of
external resources averaging over the past five years only about: US$1.20 per
person per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth.
Account must be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic
availability of water. A bad monsoon, which is likely to occur almost two
years out of every five, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and
can wipe out the results of years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of
national income over the last five years (1971/72 - 1975/76), which included
two consecutive monsoon failures, has averaged only 2% per annum, less than
the rate of population increase.
4.        Since independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and generally has fallen short of India's massive
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport, education,
health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has often been achieved at
high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many industrial and
agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful, but others have
taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well below full
capacity. [n some regions of the country, growth and structural change have
been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other parts of the
world, but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly even
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has been
in general little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of the
urban and rural population. In recent years, the Government has initiated a
variety of programs specifically directed toward helping the lower income
strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200 million people
with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agricul-
ture remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share of
industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained
approximately constant at about 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the
composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one third each, compared with an overwhelming
preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        India entered 1975/76 having been through one of the most difficult
periods since Independence. Progress in dealing with long-term development
problems had been limited by poor crops, the dramatic shifts against India in
the terms of trade, and inflation. Adjustments to these immediate difficul-
ties thus became the principal preoccupation in economic management. However,
with the support of favorable weather and additional foreign assistance, it
now appears that India has successfully weathered the problems of the recent
past; once again there is hope for an upturn in the growth rate of the economy.
7.        Most important among the favorable factors in 1975/76 was a bumper
harvest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural output. Foodgrain
production last year, estimated at around 114 million tons, exceed the pre-
vious record of 1970/71 by 6%. Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton also reached
new production peaks, and provided ample supplies for the agro-industries.
Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of infrastruc-
tural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent in the
past, have been eased. Electricity generation and domestic production of coal,
oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during 1975/76. Finally, the
increased supply of agricultural and industrial products and of services,
together with the demand restraint imposed by the Government since mid-1974,
put a stop to inflation. In 1974/75 the Wholesale Price Index had risen by
23%; in 1975/76 it remained unchanged.



- 3 -
8.        On the balance of payments front in 1975/76, some of the basic
problems of the previous two years remained. In particular, the terms of
trade, which had deteriorated significantly over the previous two years, did
not improve and most probably moved even further against India. Nevertheless,
there were a number of encouraging developments. Firstlv, the build-up of
foodgrain stocks during the year will provide a buffer against the impact of
a future crop failure on the balance of payments. Secondly, although export
earnings rose only 6%, with high volume growth being offset by falling prices,
import growth was also less than expected. The value of petrole!um imports was
stabilized despite price increases during the vear, and steel imports were
substantially reduced due to increased domestic production. As a result,
the value of India's imports rose only 2% during 1975/76 and the trade deficit
was reduced to US$1.45 billion, US$150 million less than in 1974/75. Thirdly,
the net transfer of aid was 20% higher than in 1974/75 and India also received
substantial inflows of private remittances from abroad. As a result of these
favorable developments, India was able to add over $870 million to foreign
exchange reserves. These reserves will give India added flexibility in
adjustirng to a higher rate of economic growth during 1976/77.
Development Prospects
9.        While many cif the most acute problems were eased during 1975/76,
longer-term constraint:s to growth remain. Many of these have existed for
some time, but their importance had been temporarily overshadowed by the more
overwhelming limitations imposed by supply shortages and balance of payments
problems. One such constraint is the deficiency of demand for a large segment
of the manufacturing i:ndustry. Consequently, in the midst of adequate supplies
during 1975/76, the use of manufacturing capacity - especially for consumer
durables - remained low. In the short and medium term, the two most promising
ways of stimulating demand are to boost public investment and expand exports.
Both avenues are currently being pursued by the Government. During 1975/76,
real Plan outlay rose by 18-20%, after having fallen during each of the
previous two years.   The 1976/77 Budget proposes a further increase of 16% in
real terms and introduces new measures to stimulate investment in the private
sector. Investment priorities remain the same as last year, namely agricul-
tural development and increased production of critical industrial inputs, such
as power, coal, oil, and iron and steel. The Budget also stresses the import-
ance of exports as an essential condition for sustained stability in the
balance of payments.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76, the long-term growth rate of foodgrain production
in India has been unacceptably low, at about 2.3% per annum over the last 15
years. This is about the same as the rate of-population increase. Starting
from a situation of deficit, this has meant that only in good years has there
been a significant margin of production to cater to any per capita growth in
consumption, and even in normal years it has been necessary to rely on stocks
or imports to meet any growth in demand. With a major effort to expand the
irrigated area and provide complementary inputs, the average growth rate of
foodgrain production could be substantially increased. This is essential,
not only because of the necessity to meet food requirements without unmanage-
able consequences for the balance of payments but also because of the strong



- 4 -
influence of agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the
economy. Even with a higher growth rate of foodgrain production, imports
will still be required. However, in relation to India's total consumption of
foodgrains, the dependence on imports has been and will remain small. In the
past, domestic production has accounted for almost 100% of supplies in good
weather vears and about 90% when harvests were poor.
11.       The energy sector in India was headed for its own crisis before the
international oil crisis developed. The dramatic hike in oil prices, coin-
_iding as it did with the accentuation of electric power shortages - caused
in part bv low hydroelectric generation due to poor monsoons - led to an
acceleration of measures to improve performance of existing facilities and
to a much higher priority for investments in the energy sector. The effects
of these measures, aided bv the good monsoon, are now starting to be felt.
Coai production has increased by 10% or more in each of the last two years,
and, partly as a result of this, power shortages and restrictions have been
greatly reduced. The medium-term prospects for oil and natural gas have
improved with the delineation of the offshore Bombay High field. Crude produc-
tion from this field is expected to be 1 million tons in 1976/77 and to reach
6 million tons by the end of the Plan period. On this basis, petroleum imports
are projected to start declining in 1978/79, as increased crude production and
expanded refinery output more than offset increases in demand.
12.       In the past, export growth was affected in varying degrees by inade-
quate profitability, lack of access to imported inputs, poor quality, insta-
bility of the policy environment and vulnerability to ad hoc decision. In
addition, for agricultural commodities export taxes were significant. For
some homogeneous commodities, such as iron ore and tea, inadequate supplies
or limited world demand have been important constraints. In recent years,
mainly because of the large trade deficit, the Government's emphasis on
export promotion has intensified. As a result, although the fundamental
orientation of India's industrial and trade policy and the specific instru-
ments of the export regime have, by and large, remained the same, a signi-
ficant shift in emphasis and in the way these policies are operated has
occurred. These are important both because they are likely to lead to a
better utilization of current export potential and as an indication of the
willingness to make policy adjustments, when necessary, to expand exports.
13.       While it is difficult to assess the impact of the new measures in an
area where policy is already very complex, some improvement has already taken
place and further improvement in medium-term performance seems likely.      An
annual real export growth rate of about 7% should be feasible, compared to an
average of 5% over the last five years. however, to achieve a higher export
growth over the long run, more far-reaching policy measures will be required,
including the introduction of a more uniform and more stable system of export
incentives. Even so, the export drive might be impeded by controls in some
developed markets.



- 5 -
14.       India's balance of payments problems should be manageable over
the next few years, even with the repayment obligations resulting from re-
cent short-term OPEC and IMF borrowings. The worldwide inflation has bene-
fitted India bv reducing the proportion of export earnings that have to be
devoted to debt service. India's debt service ratio has come down from 31%
in 1970/71 to 19% in 1975/76. Provided the real growth of exports remains at
about 7% per annum, the debt service ratio is unlikely to rise much above
20% in the foreseeable future. On the import side, given the adequate level
of stocks on hand at the end of 1975/76 and assuming normal weather conditions,
annual foodgrain imports could be kept to 5-6 million tons during the next
three years. Within the general category of non-food Lmports, India has
substantial medLum-term import substitution opportunities for three major
items -- petroleum, f'ertilizer and steel -- which constituted more than b0% of
imports last year.   If the medium-term targets for production in these areas
are achieved, the total expenditure on these three import items in 1978/79
need not be any higher than in 1975/76 and could quite conceivably be less.
Provided the Covernment is willing to liberalize imports and donors continue
to respond to India's needs, the easing in the external payments situation
presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment (complemented by
larger imports of capital goods, components, and raw materials), and conse-
quentlv, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term growth.
PART II - BAN4K GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
15.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,436 million and USS4,112 million (both net
of cancellations), respectively. Of these amounts, USS743 million has been
repaid, and US$1,825.9 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1976.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31,
1976, and notes on thie execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Since 1957., TFC has made 14 commitments in India totaling US$51.8
million, of which USS1O.2 million has been repaid, US$7.6 miLlion sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$27.1 billion, US$20.6 million
represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC opera-
tions as of March 31, 1976, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
17.       In recent vears, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are
other agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank
Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer
sector and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institu-
tions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises.   IDA financing of industrial raw materiaLs and corn.-
ponents for selected'priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating
better capacity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been
active in supporting infrastructure development for power, telecommunica-
tions, and railways.   Family planning, education, water supply development,
and urban investments have also received Bank (Grn'!p support in recent ve.1rs.



- 6 -
18.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural production through the
provision of essential inputs such as credit for on-farm investments, com-
mand area development of existing irrigation schemes, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next years.
Special emphasis will be given to projects benefiting small farmers. Lend-
ing in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on
energy-related projects. Credits for power and railways have high priority
in this context.
19.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a time
when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically different
price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical industrial
raw materials and components continues to be an essential element within
the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance
for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because
of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import com-
ponent of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
In view of India's poverty and the strains upon India's creditworthiness
arising out of its balance of payments and external debt position, and
taking into account the country's performance in economic development,
India is considered eligible for Third Window loans from the Bank.
20.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 41%, 24% and
30%, respectively, in 1974/75, and the contribution of the Bank Group is
expected to continue growing. On March 31, 1975, India's outstanding and
disbursed external public debt was US$11.8 billion of which the Bank Group's
share was 24%. It is likely to grow, but not very rapidly. Because Bank
Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt
service to the Bank Group will also rise slowly. In 1974/75, about 14%o of
India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN INDIA
General
21.        Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages 70%'
of the labor force, has recently contributed an average of about 45% of GNP,



- 7 -
and accounts for a major share of exports. Consequently, investments in
agriculture have been given priority by GOI and the State Governments, espe-
cially since the mid-1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
22.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural produc-
tion has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth in the
agriculture sector obscures considerable variations over shorter periods of
time, between crops, and between regions. The overall rate has been very
much affected by the serious droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and
1974. At the same time, the success of high yielding varieties of wheat pro-
duced increases in wheat production of about 20% p.a. between 1967 and 1971.
Other foodgrain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything like the same
success, as the introduction of high yielding varieties has encountered dif-
ficulties arising from local climatic and ecological conditions. The effects
of the green revolution, which primarily affected wheat, have been concen-
trated in northwestern India, very largely on account of the availability
of irrigation in that area.
23.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production,
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the weather. A major
factor in reducing this dependence will be the rehabilitation and expansioIn
of irrigation and the more effective use of existing investment in irriga-
tion facilities. The Government is also placing emphasis on the improved
supply of inputs such as seeds and fertilizer, agricultural credit, and
extension services.
Irrigation
24.       Over the first half of the twentieth century, the area under irri-
gation in India increased by only about 1% p.a. to reach sliglhtly more than
20 million hectares in 1950/51, or about one-seventh of India's cultivated
land (142 million ha out of an ultimate potential of 175 million ha). Out of
these 20 million hectares, about half was served by major and medium irrig-
ation works.
25.       Irrigation development has appropriately received increased atten-
tion since independence, and substantial resources were devoted to it through-
out the four Five-Year Plans. While minor surface irrigation increased only
slightly from 6.4 million ha to 7.5 million ha, the area covered by major and
medium systems and by groundwater utilization more than doubled to 19.6 mil-
lion hectares and 16.0 million hectares, respectively, compared with an esti-
mated ultimate potential for irrigation of 57 million hectares from major
and medium schemes, 15 million hectares from minor surface irrigation and
35 million hectares from groundwater utilization. But of the new additional
acreage of about 10 million ha under major and medium schemes, only 80% was
being utilized, and much of that inefficiently.
26.       The Second Irrigation Commission-of 1972 and the National Commis-
sion on Agriculture, which reported in 1973, found that the under-utiliza-
tion of irrigation potential was attributable to the lack of [ntegrated
development in the irrigation areas, insufficient farmer training and



- 8 -
extension service, and lack of administrative coordination. It has been
estimated that the majority of recently completed irrigation projects
require additional investments of up to US$600 per ha before they can
become fully productive. Accordingly, for the Fifth Plan period (1974-79)
various measures have been designed to improve utilization, and a Command
Area Development Department has been set up in the Ministry of Food and
Agriculture to coordinate work on a list of high priority projects.
27.       In view of the emergence of farm technologies dependent on effec-
tive water control - and given the substantial investment India has already
made in major irrigation - the economic return on improved water delivery
systems is high. Consequently, command area development has been given
high priority under the Fifth Plan proposals, and a relatively large pro-
portion of public sector investment in irrigation has been allocated for
this purpose. Further funds, doubling this allocation, will be made available
from the resources of agricultural and commercial banks participating in
financing command area development programs. In addition, major institutional
changes have been proposed affecting the coordination of services in command
areas and the administration of credit.
28.       While emphasizing the need to improve water utilization through
command area development, the Government is at the same time pursuing the
objective of increasing the area under irrigation, in particular where only
incremental investments are required. Thus, completion of on-going irri-
gation developments is given equa:Lly high priority as command area devel-
opment.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Andhra Preadesh
29.       Andhra Pradesh, with an area of 275,000 square kilometers and a
population of about 43 million, is one of the largest States in India. In
terms of size and population it compares with Italy. It is a predominantly
agricultural State, 82 percent of its population being rural. About 40 per-
cent of the total area of the State is cultivated. Rice, millet, pulses, and
groundnuts are the major crops. A quarter of the total cultivated area is
under irrigation. The rest depends upon rainfall, which ranges from 500 mm
annually in the southwest to 1100 mm in the northeast. About one third of
the State is classified as "drought-affected."
3Q.       The main source of irrigation in the State are two major rivers, the
Godavari and the Krishna, and their tributaries. Numerous irrigation canals
branch from these rivers. The upland areas use rainfed tanks and groundwater
for irrigation.
31.       During the past 25 years, Andhra Pradesh State has invested heavily
in irrigation projects. However, the returns have been rather low, mainly
because the available resources have been spread over too many projects,
resulting in long construction and gestation periods and delayed benefits.
In recent years, the development program of Andhra Pradesh for irrigatLon
has focused on the completion of three major schemes (Nagarjunasagar,
Pochampad, Tungabhadra) and the reconstruction of the Codavari Barrage.
The Bank Group has assisted two of these projects (Pochampad, Godavari



- 9 -
Barrage, see paras 32 and 33). The Godavari Barrage project will, by
replacing an ancient weit, secure irrigation water to the 400,000 ha com-
mand area in the Godavari delta. Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad, when com-
pleted, would bring abouit 1 million ha of previously rainfed land
under irrigation.
32.       Progress of the Pochampad Project, for which IDA lent US$39 mil-
lion in 1971 (Cr. 268-IN), was satisfactory during the first two years of
project implementation, and both construction work and credit disburse-
ments were ahead of schedule. However, as a result-of acute shortages of
building materials and explosives, which occurred in 1973 and lasted until
early 1975, and because Df technical difficulties with the lining of the main
canal completion of the project is being delayed. By June 1977 all project
components except those lining works will be completed. Completion of the
lining, according to the revised schedule, will be one year later. Dam con-
struction is progressing satisfactorily and water has been impounded for the
first time. Command area development was originally expected to be carried
out under the separate Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project (Credit
226-IN of January 8, 1971). However, command area development requires an
integrated plan for all farm holdings supplied from an irrigation outlet with
construction work carried out on all holdings at the same time. Such an
approach calls for a competent administrative and technical organization for
planning and implementation, to be supplemented by suitable financial and
legal frameworks. Command area development of the Pochampad area along these
lines is included in the proposed project.
33.       The Godavari Barrage project, for which an IDA credit of US$45
million was approved in 1975 (Credit 532-IN), is on schedule.
34.        Such concentration of Bank Group activity on irrigation in Andhra
Pradesh is justified by the State's very considerable potential in foodgrain
production. If the "green revolution" in wheat in Punjab and Haryana is to
be repeated in rice, Andhra Pradesh stands out as one of the major prospects.
Even with presently low yields, the State is one of the most important pro-
ducers of agricultural goods in India and, in fact, one of the few food sur-
plus States. It is India's third largest rice producer, after West Bengal
and Tamil Nadu, and contributes also a large share of the country's sorghum,
oilseeds, chillies, tobacco and sugarcane production.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The project ccntains five major components:   completion of infra-
structure for the on-going Nagarjunasagar Irrigation Project (NSP) and initial
command area development, for four major irrigation commands, including NSP,
all in Andhra Pradesh. The agglomeration of .several irrigation systems in
Andhra Pradesh for command area development with Bank Group assistance reflects
the recent development, in the Bank, of a composite project approach, under
which command area development works are initiated simultaneously in several



- 10 -
command areas in a State to achieve optimal demonstration effects on farmers.
A major advantage of this approach is that, from the outset, the necessary
organization for command area development will be created State-wide rather
than in a patchwork fashion for individual projects.
36.       The project was prepared with assistance from the FAO/IBRD Coopera-
tive Program and appraised by the Bank in August and October 1975. A loan and
project summary is given in Annex III. A report entitled "Appraisal of the
Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development Composite Project,"
Report No. lOiQa-IN, dated April 20, 1976,is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. Negotiations of this project were held in Washington
from March 29 to April 2. The Borrower, the Government of Andhra Pradesh,
and the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation were represented
by a delegation headed by Mr. Vineet Nayyar, Director, GOI, Ministry of
Finance, Department of Economic Affairs.
The Project
37.       The proposed Irrigation and Command Area Development (CAD) Com-
posite Project would complete infrastructural investment in Andhra Pradesh's
largest irrigation project, Nagarjunasagar (NSP), and initiate command area
development on 72,000 hectares in four irrigation commands in the State:
the NSP Right Bank area, the NSP Left Bank area, the Pochampad command, and
the Tungabhadra High Level Canal area. It would also strengthen the exten-
sion service in all areas. Construction of NSP, for which planning began in
1930, was initiated in 1955. The dam and the reservoir on the Krishna River
at Nandikonda are now complete, apart from the addition of power generating
facilities presently under construction. The first stage of the Left and
Right Bank Canals is more than one-half completed. Irrigation water has been
supplied to an increasing portion of the command area since 1967. The
Tungabhadra High level Canal (HLC) is a seasonal canal extending from the
Tungabhadra dam and reservoir completed in 1958, which regulate the flow of
the Tungabhadra River and provide water for irrigation and power develop-
ment in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. The status of the IDA financed
Pochampad Irrigation Project is described in para 32.
38.       The project, besides completing the NSP infrastructure, would be
the first step, comprising three years, of a CAD Program ultimately covering
an area of more than 1 million hectares in the four project areas. About
3.2 million people live in the four commands. About 120,000 farm families
would eventually benefit from the project, including 100,000 in the two NSP
commands alone. Farm incomes in the project areas, presently about Rs. 4800
on the average, would triple under the project. The average farm size varies
in the four areas. It is 3.4 hectares in NSP, 6 hectares in Tungabhadra and
2.2 hectares in Pochampad. Corresponding median farm sizes are 1.8, 3.9 and
1.0 hectares, respectively. In NSP about 55% and in Pochampad as many as 74%
of all farms are 2 hectares or less, which, if unirrigated, do not enable
an average sized family to fulfill its basic subsistence needs. Practically
all farms are operated by their owners, as land tenancy has been abolished in
Andhra Pradesh. Owners of small farms depend on additional off-farm employment
for their livelihood. In the NSP area, principal rainfed crops in the wet



- 11 -
season are millet, sorghum, pulses, oilseeds, and- some cotton. Pulses, millet
and fodder are grown in the dry season. Where irrigation is already available,
rice is.the principal crop, with supplementary cotton and groundnuts in the
dry season. Cropping patterns are similar in the Pochampad and Tungabhadra
areas, with the addition of maize and sesame in the wet season and, where
supplementary tubewell irrigation is available, turmeric, chilLies and castor.
Agricultural production in those parts of the four project areas that are
already receiving water has not met earlier expectations due to deficiencies
in CAD, inadequate roads, and lack of drainage in the NSP areas, as well as
ineffective agricultural supporting services.
39.       The proposEd project would be the beginning of an extended program
to correct these deficiencies and to secure corresponding improvements in
areas being put under irrigation for the first time. It would include on-
farm development for parts of the four command areas. On-farm development
on additional parts of the project area is planned under a second phase proj-
ect in three to five years time. In a subsequent stage, to be implemented
within the next 20 years, the irrigation system of NSP would be improved and
modernized to reduce excessive conveyance and operational losses.    A detailed
monitoring program of system efficiencies forms part of the proposed project
(para 40) and would provide data for this subsequent modernization, as well as
information for the dlesign of other major irrigation projects in India.
40.       The proposed first phase project would comprise:    completion of
the NSP Left Main Canal (about 65 miles) and NSP Right Main Canal (about 29
miles) and construct-ion of irrigation and drainage facilities to serve about
191,000 and 140,000 lhectares, respectively, within the NSP commands; rehabi-
litation, upgrading or construction of about 1575 km of village access roads
in the NSP area; command area development for 72,000 hectares, comprising
pilot or first stage land improvement for 16,000 hectares each in the NSP
Left and Right Bank areas, 33,600 hectares in the Pochampad area and 6,400
hectares in the Tungabhadra HLC area; special studies of the NSP irrigation
distribution system ro monitor and evaluate system operation and seepage
losses, including project modernization studies for improving irrigation
efficiencies; a program to monitor crop yields and to define project bene-
fits from irrigation and CAD.   The project would further include the gradual
expansion of the rotational irrigation system (warabandi) throughout the
project areas, the strengthening of agricultural extension services, and
assistance for a special project preparation and evaluation group in GOI's
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation.   Works to be included in the first
stage project were selected on a priority basis, taking into c:onsideration
organizational and budgetary constraints of the Government of Andhra Pradesh.
Project Implementation
41.       Implementation of the NSP infrastructure part of the proposed proj-
ect falls within the jurisdiction of the Irrigation Department of the Govern-
ment of Andhra Pradesh.   The Chief Engineer, NSP, has overall responsibility
for design and construction under the general direction of the Secretary for
Irrigation and Power.   Day-to-day responsibility for project execution rests
with the Superintending Engineers in the project areas. Operation and main-
tenance of the entire NSP irrigation and drainage system would be controlled



- 12 -
by three Circles (administrative units) under the direction of the Chief
Engineer. Implementation of command area development in the four project
areas would be similar to that of previous CAD projects in India with Bank
Group assistance. As in those projects, particular care was given to the
institutional and organizational aspects of CAD implementation. Following
guidelines issued by GOI, the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) has already
established a CAD Department to expedite command area development in the
State. The department is headed by a Secretary, who reports directly to the
Chief Minister.  The Secretary is Commissioner of CAD in the four project
areas. At the project level, the Administrator, with rank and authority of a
District Collector as far as the Project is concerned, is the chief executive
of the Command Area Authority (CAA) and responsible for planning and implement-
ation of the program. Construction and maintenance of the project roads is
the responsibility of the Roads and Buildings Division of GOAP's Public Works
Department.
42.       Engineering designs for NSP canals and structures, including those
under the proposed project, follow established Indian practices. Canal and
structure surveys, test pit work, and designs and specifications are either
completed or are underway and scheduled for completion by 1978, together with
surveys and designs for the branch canals and the distribution system. Labor-
intensive construction methods would be used, where feasible, for all general
project construction work. Mechanical excavating, hauling and compacting
equipment would be used only to construct high canal embankments for major
aqueducts at valley crossings and for canal excavation in rock for deep cuts.
Canal structures, except for span portions, would be constructed of masonry
using hand quarried stones from nearby deposits. Completion of the NSP in-
frastructure would take five years. Due to an abundance of able contractors
and a large experienced labor force in the area, only a minimum start-up
time would be required. Irrigation works tendered after January 1, 1976
that meet Bank Group tendering standards (see paras 47 and 48) would be
included in the project.
43.       Command area development would be carried out to the specifications
set by the Command Area Authority (CAA). Land leveling and shaping would be
compulsory on all farm holdings. Implementation would be by the farmers
themselves or by the CPA through suitable small contracting agencies or farmers
owning small tractors. Water-courses (field channels and drains) and simple
masonry structures would be constructed by small village contractors. All
excavation would be done by manual labor. For on-farm development, financing
would be available to all farmers from commercial banks or agricultural devel-
lopment banks. Loans for eligible farmers secured by mortgages would be for 12
years, normally and for 15 years in the case of small farmers (farmers whose
annual net family income from cultivation does not exceed Rs 2,000 in 1972
prices), at 10.5% annual interest with a grace period of 2 years. Farmers, who
are ineligible for such ordinary loans because of defective land title or be-
cause of overindebtedness would receive unsecured Special Land Development Loans
at the same terms but with a 1% to 4% higher interest rate. Secured loans
would be refinanced at the rate of at least 75% by the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation (ARDC), to which a portion of the loan proceeds
would be relent for this purpose (see para. 45).     Unsecured loans would be



- 13 -
fully refinanced by a CAD Special Loans Fund (CSLF) to be set up in ARDC, with
a 50% contribution by GOI and 25% contributions each by GOAP and ARDC. The
establishment of the CSLF would be a condition of disbursement from the
proceeds of the loan for command area development.
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$297 million equiva-
lent, including US$64 million in foreign exchange (22%). The principal cost
components net of contingencies are: NSP Right Canal infrastructure (US$61.9
million), NSP Left Canal infrastructure (US$81.9 million), command area
development (US$17.0 million), NSP road program (US$14.7 million), and vehi-
cles and equipment (US$13.8 million). The balance is made up by: extension
services (US$2.1 million), monitoring of project performance (US$3.0 million),
project preparation and evaluation group in GOI (US$0.1 million), physical
contingencies for all items (US$25.6 million) and expected price increases
(US$76.9 million). The contingency for price increases is high in absolute
terms because of the Large civil works component of the project, for which
annual price escalation has been estimated at 9 to 12%, and because of the
long implementation period (5 years) of these works.
45.       The proposed loan of US$145 million would cover 49% of project
costs including all foreign exchange costs and US$81 million of local costs.
The Governments of India and of Andhra Pradesh together would finance 48%.
The balance would be contributed by the Agricultural Refinance and Devel-
opment Corporation (ARDC) and by the participating agricultural development
and commercial banks. Of the proceeds of the loan, GOI would on-lend US$135.85
million to GOAP on the standard terms on which development funds are being
provided to state governments by the Center. US$9.1 million would be passed
on to ARDC with 9 and 15 years maturity at not less than 6.75% and 7.25%
annual interest, respectively. ARDC in turn would refinance at least 75% of
the land development loans extended to farmers by the participating banks at
not less than 7.5% annual interest, repayable in accordance with the terms of
the loans to the farmErs. The exchange risk associated with the proposed loan
would be borne by the Government of India.
Procurement and Disbursement
46.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be used to finance:     civil
works (US$133.3 millicn), vehicles and equipment (US$11.5 million), consultancy
services (US$0.1 million), and GOI Project Preparation and Evaluation Group
(US$0.1 million), all items inclusive of contingencies.
47.       The estimated cost of vehicles and equipment for project manage-
ment, road construction, 0 & M, and for monitoring the irrigation project,
is US$13.8 million (net of contLngencies). Out of this total, an estimated
US$7.7 million would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of
the cif price of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty if lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. About



- 14 -
US$1.1 million worth of equipment and vehicles, consisting of categories of
items costing less than US$100,000 each, which for reasons of efficiency and
standardization are not suitable for ICB, would be purchased through normal
GOAP procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. The Indian Government
has requested that the balance of US$5.0 million, mainly road rollers, jeeps,
and trucks, be reserved for local procurement, and hence it would not be
eligible for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the Loan.
48.       Civil works on the NSP Main Canals (US$43.1 million net of contin-
gencies) would be procured under ICB, each tender for a minimum value of
US$5.5 million. Tenders may include works on both canals and would be divided
into up to ten sub-contracts to encourage the participation of local contrac-
tors, who would be entitled to a 7-1/2% preference in bid evaluation. The
remaining civil works included in the project are individually small, scattered
over wide areas, and would need to be carried out in periods between cropping
seasons. Much of the construction work and on-farm development would be
carried out intermittently as determined by seasonal weather conditions and
by the on-going agricultural activities in the project areas. In these
circumstances it would not be feasible or economic to combine these works into
contracts sufficiently large to attract international competition. It is
therefore proposed that these works be carried out by local contractors, who
are mostly small labor contractors. Where this is not practical, because
specialized heavy equipment is required that contractors are unlikely to
possess, and only in such cases, works would be carried out by force account.
Contracts would be awarded in accordance with the procurement procedures of
GOAP, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
49.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against the cif cost
of imported equipment or against the ex-factory price of equipment manufac-
tured locally. For imported items procured locally disbursements would be
at the rate of 70% of cost. Disbursements for civil works would also be on
a percentage basis (60% for NSP infrastructure, including roads, and 66% for
on-farm development). The loan would be expected to be fully disbursed by
December 1982, about one and one-half years after the completion of the
project.
Benefits and Economic Justification
50.       The project has two major components, the first an improvement in
the efficiency with which irrigation infrastructure is used, and the second
an extension to the two main irrigation canals. The CAD and extension pro-
grams, which make up the first component, are expected to raise average
yields by 50%; the CAD program itself will increase farm irrigation effi-
ciencies from about 45% to 65% for lands classified as "irrigated/dry", and
will, therefore, lead to water savings of about 2,500 m3 per ha; the water
that is saved will be used to increase irrigation intensities, each additional
cubic meter without additional inputs resulting in a production increase worth
about Rs. 0.2 to 0.3. The extensions of the Left Bank and Right Bank Canals
involve very heavy capital costs. However, they form the basis for some of
the benefits to be derived from the CAD and extension programs, and will
provide additional water to 100,000 farm households and additional employment



- 15 -
and wages to 1.1 million people. Provision of irrigation water to those not
now receiving it is expected to double net farm incomes (before water charges),
and the combined effects of CAD and extension would be a further doubling. At
ultimate development, annual production in the project area would be increased:
of rice, by 327,000 tons to 1,531,000 tons; of cotton, by 105,000 tons to
172,000 tons; of groundnuts, by 193,000 tons to 305,000 tons; of maize, by
70,000 tons to 122,000 tons; and of sorghum, by 756,000 tons to 858,000
tons.
51.       The economic rate of return on the total combined package is 20% to
25%. The economic rate of return of the CAD and extension programs, which
together account for 10% of total base project costs, is very high - at least
30%. The economic rate of return on the two canal extensions, accounting for
42% and 32% of base project costs, respectively, is 10-13% for the Left Bank
Canal and 9-12% for the Right Bank Canal. The main factor causing the spread
in estimated return on the major infrastructure investment is uncertainty
about conveyance efficiencies, which the proposed monitoring program is
designed to ascertain. The main factor causing the relatively low rates of
return on the major lnfrastructure investment is the fact that to extend the
entire command area, water must be reallocated from some of the existing
beneficiaries. However, these rates of return are acceptable, considering the
fact that they do not: take full account of the additional potential for highly
productive investmenl:s in CAD created by the canal extensions.
52.       Since the component to extend the two canals involves reallocation
of water among farmers, account must also be taken of the social benefits
of income redistribul:ion, which would result from the combined project. It
has been assumed thai: the value of an additional Rupee of real income falls
in inverse proportion to rises in real income. The effect of this adjustment
would be to make the social return on the project higher than the economic
return, since the farmers and laborers who receive increased incomes are
poorer than those who lose. The social rates of return are actually about 2%
higher than the economic rates of return, making justification for the canals
component, even stronger.
53.       A major issue in the evaluation of the two extensions is that of
the optimal scale of the area. It has been shown that, using 10' as the
opportunity cost of capital, the proposed scale of the command areas maxi-
mizes economic net benefits.
54.       Net farm incomes in the project areas, presently about Rs. 1,300/ha
on unirrigated land, would double through the provision of irrigation water
and quadruple due to the full project (irrigation, CAD and extension services).
Irrigation charges, including water rates and betterm,ent levy, presently aver-
age Rs. 155/ha and are sufficient to ensure that all O&M expenditures and
capital cost of irrigation and drainage infrastructure, including 3% p.a.
interest, would be recovered from the beneficiaries of the project within 30
years. Moreover, a bill is pending with the State legislature of Andhra
Pradesh, which, if enacted, would further increase considerably the total
charges to farmers in the project area and further improve the terms of cost
recovery. GOAP has given assurances that it will levy and collect not less
than all presently authorized water charges for a period of 30 years and all



- 16 -
presently authorized betterment levies (Section 3.06 of the Andhra Pradesh
Project Agreement).   For on-farm development works, investment costs would be
repaid by the farmers as payments on loans. These charges would represent
only a small fraction of the benefits farmers would derive from the project.
They would leave the farmers with a substantial increase in net income,
estimated at Rs 3,500/ha on the average, providing adequate incentives for
those participating in the project.
Project Risk
55.       Investment risk on the CAD portion of the project is limited, given
the substantial experience already gained on a pilot scale in the project area.
On the other hand, the NSP infrastructure component Involves significant risks.
Difficulties may arise, at a later stage, affecting the supply of sufficient
irrigation water to the NSP system. The total of 264 thousand million cubic
feet (TMC) annually of Krishna water, allocated to NSP Irrigation recently by
the Krishna Water Tribunal, is sufficient to serve the total NSP area only
if significant improvements are made both to the major infrastructure (lining
of main canal and construction of regulators to minimize conveyance losses)
and to water management. However, since several major projects ultimately
using Krishna water in Karnataka and Maharashtra upstream of Andhra Pradesh
are still in the design stage or under construction and will only gradually
be completed and ready to use water by about 1995, there is presently, and
will be for the next two decades, sufficient water available in the Nagar-
junasagar reservoir to serve the NSP commands even with unimproved infra-
structure. To secure this excess water, ultimately allocated to the unfin-
ished projects in Karnataka and Maharashtra, for NSP irrigation, GOAP has
given assurances that additional quantities of water over and above the 264
TMC allocated to NSP, would be made available at the dam site as may be
required for irrigating the NSP areas in accordance with the cropping patterns
previously worked out between the Bank and GOAP (Section 2.03 of the Andhra
Pradesh Project Agreement). The assurance would further provide that the
reservoir operation programs for the Nagarjunasagar and Srisailam (immediately
upstream of NSP) power stations would be fully coordinated with irrigation
needs of NSP. Given these assurances, overall investment risks under the
project are acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Andhra Pradesh Agreement between the Bank and the Government of Andhra Pradesh,
the draft ARDC Agreement between the Bank and ARDC, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and
the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distrib-
uted to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       The draft Loan Agreement provides that no w[thdrawals will be made
in respect of command area development until evidence satisfactory to the
Bank has been furnished showing that GOAP has been given the legal power to



- 1 7 -
to enforce such on-farm development as it considers necessary in the Project
Area and recover the cost of such works from the farmers concerned, and until
the CSLF (see para 43 above) has been set up. An additional condition for
disbursement will be the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement by India
and ARDC.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for Third Window
loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 22, 1976






COMM79  sntU- INDIA
(Mid-1973)            ~~350    Per tSaf .rabilanItd
SOCIAL DWICAOCIS
ON? RI OhPf US$ (TnSt Rallal a1                                 ..U                L.           90          220 ~j     2,6o0oa
RE M hrate (per thoOimid?                                 36            38    d         L    a        I   A      1. 
Crude death rate (pet toasand                                  1             16LA            19 Id..       12LL       120
Infant mortality rate (pev thconod live birtha)              139    1  20-1t4cd              ..            D          017.5 4
Life alaimotn. et bith (leers)                                 41            50[6                         56            72
Picafs ramodactico rate L                                     2.7 /h        2.9             3.2          3.)           1.3
Population poetS 'Ate 1                                      2.3           2.3             20            3. 
cpop.3.tioc grosth rat. - ct-boo                                3/h           L540l
Age structure (percet)
0-14                                                                                       4            i           33
15-&.                                                        56            557                  a        5z, a.     6
65 and over                                                   3                              .n           3/,       1.
Ag  dpendency railo &                                         0.B9 0.                             c       0.9          0 .6&
Urban PPlton.          amiofttl               thu.             16 ~k         20 Lag.k_       1A.           32 Z.c       78 /An
go. of W.,$ (S of mar-ied   zoo.c           *.                              75o
B ~ byforc   (macuisr.a)                             1E99,00  &    21,000           L 0,10t0/     13.200 r     25,7(3 
Percentage employed In agriculture                           73 Li         71 4d           63 4j        56             3
Percentage unemplyed                                                           an           2an36                         a
P-M -OX   EnRM.alinomee reCaived by, higeset 5%            27            25IL            *.25 /a,tL                  15 /r.t
Percent ofnational Incomes received by higfhest 20%            52            53 4a           .53 ZLr                    3 9 ki,
Porcent of national Inoc   received by lnosat 2961 0ucs                                                                  6
Percent. ofnational iooome renived by lo---st 40%/c                                         ..i                         1
MSThIBUTnE OF LAND oam     r?
I6 meoG by top 113, 0f cU.c 
zsnowed by sonalLest 10% of oworo... 
ftlpilatihn e     piF yeclcan                                5,00          1,00           27311C         ,/IJL ,fr 
Poptiation per orngpre5,12Lo                                       ,      s,o[.                7        ,90 50t
Poeltonpr aupitol bed                                2,6o0         1,620  FL    L      SD 15  /C   250 LiaiZ     12-7
Per ospita ne1loia euppi  tos 5 of re at.mnte-/5              95             93              9305                      1.25
Per capita pr-tei  mnppl, total (grasm per da,T,(6           55             53              53           [.5           90
Of tbich, animal end PeLu                                   19 /a,         16 lt           1, 45
Death rate I- _pearc 47                                                                                   22           5.74
/6M pisenary      ohol enrollment ratio                    42             79              71          L122    ad   110
Adjusetd 7!eeoaoiedy echo,l enrollment ratio                  10             20              12           15           72
Tears of iLihoein  brondel. eirst and aseond level            12             12              12           10            13
?aateaieoolenect W If of mc. school enrollment            I64j                          Z9S047g
Adult literaCy rae/ ~an                                                      36&dn            6L.a.       7744          957 
NoR... of perenno per rooa (urban)                         2.6 L.Jii    2.8 /9          .             ..          U-.. /.,.I
Peroent of oupied UILta tritoot piped water                 ..66 /0d.01--
-feceg to almrtricdtp (cc .1 of tota  pflpa.t.con)            ...23 /o-d.sJ                                            .
Percent4 a! Scral pPcpletic, vonmotad to 1alctrloitp y                      ..                             -6/n&       .-
ree Wr per100  pipeaution                            5            23 Za          wI                _        1.72 /a
Pameeger car. P.r i00 potltia 
Escipria peer rentmspijon (ht P.C.)                           a.                                           . SI        2312
Rawicert coon,Mption P.C. kg pec Y-a                                                         31           55        h ,2 
0.2           0.3 L'           0.           -.'a    l        L
Noties, Figures refer eibher to its lots ci periods or to          anonut of eovtroneno.ai tompatrs, ;--I      eict, 
the latest yews.   Latest periods refer in principle W             dietrliouthon by age ad anx of natonalpouitia
the ycsrc 1956-60 or 1-966-70; the latect years J  rin .-      &   Pretain ataodarde (reqolraent.) for all ocuntriar ad eatab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                            ILUsh    by 131k Rodmicct Research Service provide for a c1inist
A   The Per Cmpita GNP estimate ic at co-tot priona for            ol1ovaoce of 60 gramg of total protein per day, am  20 gaiee of
Y.mc. other ties 1960,nal1uluted by ths -cm  Conversioon        -   1 s end a V.I.. protein, of -hcht 1U gr-ao should be anmle
techoliue us the 1972 Acorid lan  Ltiac,                       prOoten.  Those standards arm ecoechat Leathe than .c of 75
1 Aveng   number of daughters Per woman of reproductive          grace of tOt3. protmuiL md 2a)grinstof endeel. pe"AtAa a  all
age.                                                           average for the world, propoasi by, PA0 in the Third World Poond
La PhP.aatiin growth mitsc oe for the decodes ending in            StWy57
aL1960 and 1970.                                              /7 lome atodle   havt ouggeted that crde destih ratec of dhildrcn
&  htio Of populstloo undar 1.5 and 65 end over to popua-         ae. 1 through L may be tot as a first appsronlmstl on Indas of
tiioc  f -got i5-61. for ag., dELpCn.daMr  ratio ad to labor   Mal,o.trliton.
force of 4ges 15-61 for e.,comeic dependency, rtio.         /0  Percntage enrolled of carreomperang popalatin  of esumol ag
/j  to referanie tetndarda r recenot pk7CingicLX                    as defined Cm' each ocooctry.
quiremeftic for normal act. lity and health, taheng
1972;     A   Ectiete onuoa ovecege,for 1963-61 booed on -emate of the national templc Curley;        In  1971;   ad  RClotleb;
1965-70;   If  1973,   ~   EstiMated annual averege for 1951-61 hosed on analynia of decnanolel cene    ;   &    91.0
gtie ic Cetimato bao.d ton iirths Obtained by application of cre,eree cvi     ml nethod to cvaulte of 1951 and 1961
consacra;   zi  1960-72;   A   For tihe definition of orban mee vNDeo           Ip. 35L;                 47  Jt,oiofiyalto,
reganoy neqiteal and other~ places with uratn Characteristice, aoldn      ls    rif        9rthe definitio       f urban
o"   aa      h      na      Ul      .17;     44  Ares OIleefied -as urban for icoal w      xear nt purposes, li.a., oucnty,
borui     toncp    .l  a  g   a   re    dietriontsJ   a  196.;   &_ Includes eli izodiriduale who participate to any
type of enonorde actilvi y;  L      AIDetimate of labor terr  in age group 15-59. 2060 report gives a. figure ad 160.1.
niLlicn baoed on the 1911 population canons.   The diffarences te dus to changee In the definition of a,wrm.I          t
1971 cenaum, pereons  &ear olasified only on the beels of their main activittee.    This le  to the   wnicokof several
Cutegories, auch Las houesivee;    47_ Households;   47  197-60;    ISt 196196        962;   4    ee onnet ion ofvar._eMt
careIcfre  oolYj  Lw  1977;  JA   1969;   &   Including roral hoopitia.;    /s  Go.eeromct. hoapital ectabilebrnis only;
196D42       Z_ 1969 70,     Las. Estimate which inniudmo,overage stdentc      L.4  1967;    L-_, Not inoloding--traiono1
sbort-term courses;   4af  1965;    Lg    961;   /-h  Population Of 10 peon and Oler hea.d on one percent ma"plo dMat
of 1971;   473. 15 Yetre Ond over; h1isDE         refer to h-umeholds;  Ak   Inta heosd On saonlo tbulttIon of concteu
MtrCeto ;   L&  Inca -refr to hnoeelnlda do convetional dwollings;     lea   lrgoric only;  (u    R.Iognr.od apoldoonon
Sizes end poplation -akg Indonesia e relevant refereoca cocutry, %altbong   lyn-ho- the-par _apita.i_..m Csa       almo
India.
-aThe United ltigdoc bac been eL.ected because of the important role of public rector anterprlose and the hiighly
developed ayatem of social welfare.



A nnex :
Fage 2
ECONOMIC Dfl3IDPMENT DATA
G1P PER CAPITA IN 19738-/ US$120
GROSS NJATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974/79                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant priee)
US$ Bln.                                       1 t961/62-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1973/74
GNP at Market Prices              87.4       100.0                                   3.4                3.7                1.9
Gross Domestic Investment         14.8        16.9
Gross National Saving             12.8        14.6
Current Account Balance           -2.0        -2.3
Resource Gap                      -1.8        -2.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)         Labor Force          V.A. Per Worker
US, Bin.               %             Xin                  __
Agriculture                       24.5                46.6            130.0   72.1         188             64
Industry                          11.8                22.3             20.2   11.2         582            199
Services                          16.3                31.1             30.2   16.7         542            186
Total/average                     52.6               100.0            180.4  100.0         292            100
GCVEDBMENT FINANCEg
General Government d                        Central Govercin nt
(R3. 'Bln)           '% of GDP                  (Rs. Blnn              of GDP
1974/75        1974/75   1972/75-1974T75        1974/75        1974/75   1972/73-1974T75
Current Receipts                  107.63          15.4         15.7                64.02           9.1          9.2
Current Ehcpenditures              98.91 4.2                   15.2                57.78           8.2          t37
Current Surplus/Deficit             8.64           1.2          0.5                 6.24           0.9          0.5
Capital Eixpenditurs 9/            40.40            5.8          5.4               30.1T           4.3          4.1
External Assistance (net)          10.17           1.4          1.0                10.17           1.4          1.0
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                1965/66    1970/71     1971/72   1972/73    1975/74    1974/75    Augnust 1974   August 1975
(Billion Res outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                     61.4       105.7      122.4      142.2      169.1      187.4       176.8          198.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector              40.8       56.9       69.0       82.5       92.9      102.0        98.8           115.3
Bank Credit to Private Seotor             28.1       56.7       64.4       76.0       90.1      100.5        90.0           104.7
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                    January 1975   January 1976
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         24.0       24.4        26.3      27.9        27.2       25-5
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                      131.6      181.1      138.4      207.1      254.2      313.0       316.0           290.5
nnlual percentage changes in!
WVholesale Price Index                     7.7        5.5        4.0         9.9       22.7       23.1                       -8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector              12.9        8.6       21.3        19.6       12.6        9.8                       4.8 4/
Bank Credit to Private Sector             12.8       17.4        13.6      18.0        18.5       11.5                      22.9 g/
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1973 market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the 1975
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
4 Quick Estimates.
c  Computed from trend line of Gl? at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d  Transfers between Center and States have been netted ouit.
e/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
fl Credit to Government.
' Credit to Commercial Sector.



,tnlnex I
Pape 3
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               L972/7.     .if    tI   1i27A9l6 -h/ .FaRABDIIS: EXPORTS (NAGE t972/75-1974/75)
(US$ Mil-li-anT-                             ZEMIT~~~~USILl..
Exports of Goods                    2,55(t      3,259       4,143       4,300           Jute Manufacturere      329           10
Imports of Goodr                   -2,68:!     -3,971      -5,739      -5,920           Tea                      220           7
Trade Balanoe                      -  12i.     -  732      -1,596      -1.620           Cottor. Tertiles.J       217           7
178 (net) /                        -  14f'       n.a.        n.a.        n.a.           Iron Ore                 171           5
Engineering Goods       295            9
Resouro Gar                        -  27(        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.           Others                 2.081          63
Interest Payments (net)            -  23"1     -  233      -  260      -  261           Total                  3,313         100
Other Factor Payaments (net)       -    l        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Net Transfers   L/                 -   50        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Balance on Current Account         -  565        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.            DXTEENAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1975
Offioial Aid                                                                                                                JSS Min.
Disbursements                     95'5      1,249       1,766       2,210           Repayable in foreign currency        11,056
Amortization                     -445        -459        -519        -522           Repayable throukh export of goods       714
Transactions with iMF                              75         530          130           Total Outstanding and Disbursed     11,770
Al] Other Iteme                        891        205          41          500
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975/76        19.0 percent
Increase in Reserves (-)             - 34        -105          38         -435
Gross Reserves (end year)           1,311       1,416        1,378       1,813           IBRD/IDA LENDING. December 31. 1975   (US3 Man-)
Net Reserves (end year)             1,311       1,341         773        1,073
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                              IBRD      IDA
Imports                               265,        720       1,451        1,450           Outstanding and Disbursed       445     2,827
of which: Petroleum                 265         719       1,451       1,450           Undisbursed                      284     1,157
Outstanding including            729     3,984
Exports                                41          20           26        n.a.             Undisbursed
of whichs Petroleium                 37          16          17        n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE     /
Prior to mid-December 1971         US51.C0 = Rs 7.5                                      After end June 1972       F'loating Rate
Re 1.C-O = USSO.133333                                Spot Rate December 31, 1975
Mid-December 1971 -.o              US81.Co = Rs 7.27927                                                approx. US51.00 = %. 8. 937
end June 1972                    Rs 1.CO = USSO0137376                                               approx. Rs 1.30 = USS 0.112
h/ Estimated.
4/ For 1973/74 to 1975/76, included with 'All other Items'.
j/ Aid and trade figures converted to UE, dollars using exchange rates and IMF trade conversion factors as indic;ted in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
k/ Excluding garments.
1/ Amortization and interest payments (,'xcluding IMF transactions) as a percentage of merchandise exports.



At?EX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.   STATEHE2T OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
Loan or                               (As of :iarch 31, 1976)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower                 Purinose                   (Net of Cancellation)
Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                          1,032.5
36 Credits fully disbursed                                                 2,Q51.9
614-IN       1969   India      Tarai Seeds                           13.0      -       7.0
176-IN      1970    India     Kadana Irrigation                       -      35.0      0.3
203-IN      1970    India     Punjab Agricultur&l Credit              -      27.5     1"?-9
226-IN      1971    India     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit      -      24.4      4.3
242-IN      1 ?71   India     Power Transmissior II                   -      75.0     4-.5
249-IN      1971    India     Haryana Agricultural Credit             -      25.0      7.6
250-IN      1971    India      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit         -      35.0      9.8
264-IN      1971    India      Cochin II Fertilizer                   -       20.0     2.5
267-IN      1971    India     Wheat Storage                           -       5.0      3.8
268-IN      1971    India      Pochanpad Irrigation                   -      39.0      1.7
789-IN      1971    ICICI     Industry DFC IX                        60.0     -        4.2
278-IN      1972    India      fyaore Agricultural Credit             -      40.0     14.6
293-IN      1972    India     Maharashtra Agricultural Credit         -      30.0      2.6
294-IN      1972    India      Bihar Agricultura.l Markets            -      14.0     12.9
312-IN      1972    India      Population                             -      21.2     13.4
342-IN      1972    India     Education                               -       12.0    11.8
356-IN       1972   India     IDBI                                    -       25.0    19.2
357-IN      1973    India     Nangal Fertilizer Expansion             -      58.0      0.5
377-IN       1973   India      Power Transmission III                 -       85.0    73.9
378-IN       1973   India      Mysore Agricultural Markets            -        8.0    --7.9
902-IN      1973    ICICI     Industry DFC x                         70.0      -      16.1
390-IN       1973   India      Bombay Water Supply                    -       55.0    45-5
391-IN       1973   India      Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit     -       33.0    14.8
392-IN       1973   India      Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit      -       38.0     22.7
403-IN       1973   India      Telecommunications V                   -       80.0     44.2
427-IN       1973   India      Calcutta Urban Devalopment             -       35.0     22.4
440-IN      1973    India      Bihar Agricultural Credit              -       32.0     23.1
456-IN      1974    India      HP Apple Processing & Marketing        -       13.0     13.0
481-IN      1974    India      Trombay IV                             -       50.0     43.L
1011-IN      1974    India     Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                52.0      -      43.9
482-IN       19.4   India      Karnataka Dairy                        -       30.0     30.0
502-IN      1974    India      Rajasthan Canal CAl)                   -       83.0     62.1
520-IN       1974   India      Sindri Fertilizer                      -       91.0     79.8
521-IN       1974   India      Rajasthan Dairy                        -       27.7     27.6
522-IN       1974   India      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -       16.4     1U.4
526-IN       1975   India      Drought Prone Areas                    -       35.0     34.2
1079-IN      1975    India     IFPOO Fertilizer                      109.0      -      10B4
1097-IN      1975    India     Industry DFC II                       100.0      -       95.2
532-IN       1975   India      Godavari Barrage Irrigation            -       45.0     42.8
5 0-1nz      1975   India      ARC Credit                             -       75.0     66.6
541-IN       1975   India      West Bengal Agr. Dev. Project          -       34.0     34.0
562-IN       1975   India      Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD           -       24.0     24.0
572-IN       1975   India      Rural Electrification                  -       57.0     57 o
582-IN      1975    India      Railways XIII                          -      110.0     R5.3
585-IN       1 975  India      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply             -       40.0     40.0
598-IN      1975    India      Fertilizer Industry                    -      105.0'   105.0
604-IN       1975   India      Fourth Power TrMnsmission              -      150.0'   150.0
609-IN       1975   India      Madhya Pradesh Forestry Tech. Assist.  -        4.0,     4.0
610-IN       19'6   India     Integrated Cotton Development           -       18.0*    18.0
616-IN       1976   India      Industrial Imports XI                  -      200.0*   200.0
Total                                                             1,436.5  4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                      725.5    17.0
Total now outstanding                                               711.0 4,095.1
Amount sold                          111.5
of which has been repaid      111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                       711.0
Total undisbursed (including *)                                     274.8  1;551. 71: 82.9
Not Yet effective
/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1 976)
Amount (US$ million)
Year           Company                           Loan     Equity      Total
1959      Republic Forge Coapany Ltd.             1.5        -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oi:L Engines Ltd.            0.9         -         0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2         -         0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.7        0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8       1.0       12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machi ne Works Ltd.             1.0       0.3        1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.0       0.1        1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1       3.8       18.9
TOTAL                             43.0        8.8       51.8
Less: Sold                              6.0        1.6        7.6
Repaicd                         1,.2         -       
Cancel led                       6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                        ^           6.5       27.1
Undisbursed                      9.5         -         9.5



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$480.3 million in FY75 or 57%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,825.9 million as of March 31, 1976, corresponds roughly to
commitments over--the preeeding -two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 789    Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Effective
DBate: December 20, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loans 789-IN and 902-IN are
fully committed and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan
1097-IN. Disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is
working efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed
quality. Seed production is meeting targets. Expansion of an existing
processing plant has been completed. Two other plants are being consider-
ably expanded. Bids have recently been cleared for orders to be placed for
the equipment necessary to complete the expansion program.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Errigation Project; US$35.0 million credit of
February 9, 1970; Effective Date: July 29, 1970; Closing
Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and i:he expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The
project also includes fEield channel construction, land-leveling, drainage
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction.  The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation occurred at the
start of the project before major investments were made. These will not
affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages. The Government
intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials available.
In spite of an additional delay in the procurement of a large batching
plant, the dam is stilL expected to be completed in July 1977, which is
in accordance with the revised schedule. A project review mission visited
the Project in January and is preparing its report.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation Project; US$39.0 million credit of
August 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 15, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the agricultural development on the right
bank of the Godavari R:lver by providing perennial irrigation to some 100,000
ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-lined main
canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads. Until mid-
1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction
and disbursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead of schedule. For
two years, acute shortages of construction materials, especially explosives
for the canal excavation, and technical difficulties with the lining of the
main canal hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main canal
has fallen about one year behind schedule, which is likely to delay the
introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Since early
1975, all material shortages have been removed and progress has been satis-
factory. Construction of the dam is ahead of schedule. Land development,
however, is haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water availability
in the project area. The Pochampad component of the proposed Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation and Command Area Development Composite Project is designed to
remedy this inadequacy .



ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date:   June 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Tendering for the supply of equipment is under way. The contract
for civil works was recently awarded after international competitive bid-
ding.
Cr. No. 203    Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 293    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: January 31, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists vtf mectianization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX II
Page 6
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on szhedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheal: Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date: September 30,
1978
The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has completed a contract for
construction of the silo foundations at two of the five silo sites. A tender
has been offered for foundations at the other three sites. Tenders have
been cleared for a part of the equipment. The godown component has been
fully disbursed. In addition, the All-India Grain Storage Study is progressing
and the staff training program has been planned in detail and is to be
implemented soon. I'roject implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and markcting in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. A June 1975 review mission recommended actions to
bring the project in, line with managerial and technical capabilities and to
incorporate consultants' recommendations for modifying the cold storage
component. A recent review mission found a satisfactory improvement in the
prospects for successful project implementation. Disbursements should be
completed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements were initially delayed mainly because of delays
in material supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local
supply were due to labor problems affecting one of the principai suppliers
and imports were delayed due to longer than anticipated l-eaidtime required.
The revised disbursement schedule for this credit is now expected to be met.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 312 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1976; Effective Date: April 22,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. As a consequence
of the delays, however, the closing date of the credit had to be postponed
accordingly. For Power Transmission III, virtually all equipment has now
been ordered; there are likely to be substantial cost overruns, a portion
of which is being met through Power Transmission IV.
Cr. No. 264     Cochin II Fertilizer Project; oUS$20.0 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: May 11, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520     Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Clos:ng Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project
is now proceeding about 24 months behind schedule, mainly because of pro-
curement delays, slow progress on civil works, and shortages of steel and
cement. Procurement problems have been largely overcome, and most of the
equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another factor which
has contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the commission-
ing of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate amount of
management attention.   Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems;
the use of these funlds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated.   Engineering work, procurement and site
construction for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily,
but the project facess substantial cost over-runs due to increases in equipment
prices. Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about four months because of longer thanr
expected delivery times for critical equipment. Engineering design and
procurement for the Sindri project are proceeding on schedule. The IFFCO
project has been deLayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock
from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts.
Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity; implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a nuxmber of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved and construction of the first ten markets is well advanced.
Six markets are expected to open for business by mid June 1976. Market
construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million Credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress
on civil works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship
programs and university development plans. The rate of disbursement has
been slow, partly due to previous delays in the selection of key personnel
and in the preparation of equipment lists, but is expected to improve in
line with progressing construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356     Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
(SFCs). However, there is now evidence of improvement in the utilization of
this credit. Commitments are virtually completed. In order to provide
continuity in the Bank Group's involvement with small and medium scale
industry, a second line of credit is being prepared, which would cover the
expected foreign exchange requirement of SFC sponsored small and medium scale
industrial projects for the two year period beginning on July 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain components of the project. Action has been
taken to redefine and rephase the project construction to fit the financing



ANNEX II
Page 10
available from the Credit, local loans and bonds, and internal cash genera-
tion of the project entity. The revised cost estimate for the implementation
period 1975/76 to 1979/80 amounts to US$266 million dollar equivalent exclud-
ing interest durin; construction. GOI has confirmed the revised project
description and is expected to confirm the project costs and financing plan
shortly. Meanwhile project construction is proceeding and most major con-
tracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been awarded. Disburse-
ments should therefore be faster in FY 1977 than in preceding years. Finan-
cial performance of the project entity during 1974/75 was satisfactory, but
major rate increases have been proposed to start in April 1976, to ensure con-
tinuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress in implementation of this project is rather slow, in
view of the reduction in overall funding of the CMDA program, of which the
project forms part, and of management and organizational problems. Project
costs have increased considerably, especially in the water supply and
sewerage/drainage sectors. In order to accommodate the project to funding
available, CMDA has submitted a redefined project, which is expected to be
substantially completed by December 1978, about 24 months behind the original
schedule.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 millioni credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totaling US$74.1 million support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AUfLJL
dairy cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Progress on the Karnataka
project has been slow, partly because of inadequate staffing off the
Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) and partly due to poor
project management. However, improvement in implementation is expected
with the recent recruitment by KDDC of a management consultant. Training
has progressed with the completion of a two-month training program by 68
field staff. Overall, the project is six months behind the original sched-
ule. Progress under the Madhya Pradesh project is satisfactory, with the
Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation having been established and
all key staff positions filled. Field staff training has commenced and
the first dairy cooperative societies should be established by December,
1975. Detailed design studies for plant construction have begun and con-
struction is expected to begin soon. With respect to the Rajasthan project,
the Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation has been formed and key personnel
appointed. The first milk union has been formed and good progress has been
made in organizing dairy cooperatives at the village level.
Ln. No. 1011    Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Mladhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 26, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides credit over 4 years for construction of about
18,000 shallow tubewells, 300 deep tubewells, 200 agro-service centers and
3 markets. The credit also helps the state to finance the completion of a
number of state-owned river lift and deep tubewell schemes and to improve
agricultural extension and maintenance facilities. Participating banks



ANNEX II
Page 12
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation are preparing schemes for ini-
tiating the agricultural credit components. The state government has reor-
ganized its agricuLtural extension services and is taking steps to reorganize
the State Water Board and to carry out studies needed for completion of river
lift schemes.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The project has progressed satisfactory furing the past six months.
tIost staff are now in position and physical works are well tnderway. Pro-
gress has been slower in new activities (dry farming, dairy and sheep
development) because of delays in staffing and insufficient technical know-
ledge. Technical assistance, to be provided through the FAO Fund-in-Trust,
should help. To further improve the situation, at GOI request, a special
supervision mission will help identify training requirements and formulate
a training program.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date
September 30, 1977
This project consists of Indian Railways's new and on-going
investment program between April 1, 1975 and March 31, 1977. The credit
is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 585    Utt:ar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US';4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Cr. No. 610     Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: August 24,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will demonstrate practical and effective means of
increasing cotton yields and maximizing by product recovery from ginning
and cotton seed processing. It will be executed over five years.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA - ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND COMMAND
AREA DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITE PROJECT
Borrower:                   India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:                State of Andhra Pradesh for irrigation works and
roads; Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation for refinancing on-farm development
loans made to farmers by agricultural development
banks and commercial banks.
Amount:                     US$145 million.
Terms:                      Standard Third Window terms.
Relending Terms:            (i)  From India to Andhra Pradesh:   As part of
Central Assistance for development projects on
terms and conditions applicable at the time.
(ii) From India to the Agricultural Refinance
and Development Corporation: At interest rate
of not less than 6.75% and 7.25% per annum for
refinancing loans, with terms of 9 and 15 years
respectively;
(iii) From the Agricultural Refinance and Devel-
opment Corporation to agricultural development
banks and to commercial banks: Annual interest
of not less than 7.5% with maturities according to
maturities of loans to be refinanced;
(iv) From agricultural development banks and
commercial banks to farmers: Repayable over 12
years for normal lending and 15 years for small
farmers, after 2 years of grace, at 10.5% p.a.
interest for secured loans and 11.5% to 14.5%
p.a. for unsecured special land development loans.
Project Description:        The purpose of the projert ls to complete the on-
going construction of irrigation infrastructure in
the Nagarjunasagar Irrigation System, and to
provide the first stage (covering three years) of
command area development for four major irrigation
systems in Andhra Pradesh (Nagarjunasagar Right
and Left Bank Commands, Pochampad Irrigation
System, Tungabhadra High Level Canal Command).
The project will alleviate food shortages and
improve farmer income in the project area.



ANNEX III
Page 2
The project consists of:
(i) completion of the Nagarjunasagar Left Main
Canal (about 65 miles) and construction of
irrigation and drainage facilities for the
NSP Left Bank area;
(ii) completion of the Nagarjunasagar Right Main
Canal (about 29 miles) and construction of
irrigation and drainage facilities for the
NSP Right Bank area;
(iii) rehabilitation, upgrading or construction of
about 1,575 km of village roads in the NSP
command area;
(iv) command area development covering 72,000
hectares of land in the four major irrigation
systems mentioned above;
(v) a program to monitor water use efficiencies in
NSP and crop yields in the four project areas;
(vii) extension service assistance; and
(viii) assistance for a project preparation and eval-
uation group in GOI's Ministry of Agriculture
and Irrigation.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated Cost:
Local Foreign Total
------US$ Million----
NSP Right Canal Infrastructure               50.6     11.3    61.9
NSP Left Canal Infrastructure                66.4     15.5    81.9
NSP Road Program                              12.5     2.2    14.7
Command Area Development                      14.5     2.5    17.0
Vehicles and Equipment                         4.4     9.4    13.8
Extension Services                             1.8     0.3     2.1
Monitoring Project Performance              _ 2.9      0.1     3.0
GOI Project Preparation and Evaluation
Group                                      -        0.1     0.1
Base Cost                           153.1    41.4   194.5
Physical Contingencies                        19.9     5.7    25.6
Price Escalation                              60.0    16.9    76.9
Total Project Cost                 233.0     64.0   297.0
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign  Total
------US$ Million-----
Bank Loan                                     81.0    64.0    145.0
Local Financing: Governments of
India and Andhra Pradesh                  144.0      -      144.0
ARDC, agricultural development banks
and commercial banks                         8.0     -        8.0
233.0    64.0    297.0
Estimated Disbursements:                         US$ Million
FY1977   FY1978   FY1979   FY1980    FY1981   FY1982
Annual:              15      30        30       30       27       13
Cumulative:         15       45        75      105      132      145
Procurement
Arrangements:             Out of US$13.8 million worth of vehicles and equip-
ment, US$7.7 million would be subject to interna-
tional competitive bidding, and US$1.1 million,
not suitable for international tendering, would
be procured through normal GOAP procurement proce-
dures, which are satisfactory. The balance of
US$5.0 million, mainly road rollers, jeeps, and
trucks, would be reserved for local procurement
and would not be financed from the proceeds of the



ANNEX III
Page 4
loan.   Civil works for the NSP main canals
(US$43.1 million, basic cost net of contingencies
but including building materials) would be issued
for international competitive bidding. The re-
maining civil works on the NSP irrigation distrib-
ution and drainage systems (US$72.8 million),
roads (US$12.9 million), and on-farm development
(US$12.0 million) would be contracted locally
under procedures satisfactory to the Bank or exe-
cuted by force account, as none of the works, main-
ly because of their nature and because of the
conditions in the project area, could be grouped
into contracts large enough to be of interest to
foreign contractors.
Rate of Return:              20%-25% economic rate of return.
Consulting Services:         (a)  6 man/months for NSP water use efficiencies
measurement program (hydrologic engineer 4
man/months and data systems specialist 2
man/months)
(b)  6 man/months for modernization program
(canal design engineer)
Appraisal Report:            No. lOlOa-IN dated April 20, 1976.






3RD 1137d
INDIA              - U+|
ANDHRA PRADESH            .      -             ASJ 'tA CI
IRRIGATION & CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT r          _ MH               T R A     )A
SUB-PROJECT AREAS                                                     )                    '-5
~j P,o1ect taeos                                                    - _ /\ ,,_,, 
Com AmonsA,eoOeeB. .,
NoronolHh s A,.I Hh                                       S_
Sicre I-ubooys -,                                                                          <C,
-4--i- brogd Cou.ge Toriroods >X>_  L 5 W \   .                      M A D H Y A
O f-  Mls trie S g Ro J Oodg e s   y.  -tX t  _ f            - 2 7 p   ' '   'r   o\  R   A  /  M AP   R   A   D   E   S   H
o~   Cothe gnols             )  /  t J IGI\TION  P30JE CA,          K Y J   :  _,  f g t  tt  A   r  r
S A ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   
Gsi,cos      GAAAD<                                         .                    L _  CR  H
C s X T ows                       IRRIOATION PROJECT  - 4~-       --            X N A  A
Nolgoado X v                     ELchar  U  RU  {X  Koboodo /o M  so
->7          \     5     :            - __      /   % g R \5     !''                 ,. _  - 
00  /C  /sOEO 0 I 00
I i       Royodi                           ( sr  /K  h  RN      C ig  -;                 05005 <_ncel,l
PECIE I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TBT
l, }      v     W      t          <     2      |     0 .    X 0                   t owohi
, ) t 4;! tSJ rv ~~~A     ~     .             No\llor=N  G   ssi, s 0.
ib Ail.. o._N   nolA | _; r
Ta    00'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN 



