Report No. lOlOa-IN                                                                   COPY
India: Appraisal of the
Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command
Area Development Composite Project
April 20, 1976
Irrigation and Area Development Division
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Documenit of lf.-z World Rank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00       =  Rupees (Rs) 9.00 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                                 =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                            =        0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                              =        2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)                =        810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC)         =        28.32 Mm3
1 cubic foot per second (cfs)               =        0.0283 M3/s
1 liter per hectare (1/ha)                  =        14 ft3/1,000 ac
I ton                                       =        1,000 kilograms (kg)
=       2,205 pounds
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was official valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a 'basket' of
currencies. As these curencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange
rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have been made at
US$1 to Rs 9.00, which was the short-term average rate prevailing at the
time of appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AICRIP                     All-India Coordinated Rice Improvement Project
ARDC                       Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation
CAA                        Command Area Authority
CAD                        Command Area Development
CB                         Commercial Bank
CCA                        Culturable command area
CWC                        Central Water Commission
FAO                   =    Food and Agriculture Organization
FCI                   =    Food Corporation of India
GNP                   =    Gross National Product
GOI                   =    Government of India
GOAP                  =    Government of Andhra Pradesh
HLC                   =    High Level Canal
ICB                   =    International Competitive Bidding
ICRISAT               =    International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-
Arid Tropics
IRC                   =    Indian Roads Congress
LBC                   =    Left.Bank Canal
LCB                   =    Local Competitive Bidding
LDB (LMB)             =    Land Development (Mortgage) Bank
LDD                   =    Land Development Division
LS                    =    Lump Sum
MDR                   =    Major District Roads
NH                    =    National Highway
NSP                   =    Nagarjunasagar Project
0 & M                 =    Operation & Maintenance
ODR                   =    Other District Roads
PWD                   =    Public Works Department
R & B                 =    Roads and Buildings Division
RBC                   =    Right Bank Canal
RP                    =    Reserved Procurement
SH                    =    State Highway
TMC                   =    Thousand million cubic feet
WBM                   =    Waterbound macadam
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS FOR OFFICERS
AAO                   -    Assistant Agricultural Officer
ADA                   -    Assistant Director of Agriculture
DDA                   -    Deputy Director of Agriculture
JDA                   -    Joint Director of Agriculture
LDC                   -    Lower Division Clerk
SMS                   -    Subject Matter Specialist
UDC                   -    Upper Division Clerk
VEW                   -    Village Extension Worker
VLW                   -    Village Level Worker
GLOSSARY
Bajra                 -    Pearl Millet
Hot Season            -    March to May
Irrigated Dry (ID)   -    Irrigated land designated for crops other than
rice and sugarcane
Irrigated Wet (IW)   -    Irrigated land designated for rice and sugarcane
Jowar                 -    Sorghum
Kharif                -    Wet Season (June to September)
Mandi                 -    Market
Murrum                -    Used locally to describe decomposed laterite or
other firm gravel soils suitable for road
construction purposes
Panchayat             -    Village council
Panchayat Samithi    -    An accretion of several village councils
Pipe, Chak            -    Area served by watercourse, between 15 ha to 40 ha
Rabi                  -    Dry season (October to February)
Taluk                 -    A sub-division of a District.  There are some 20 Districts
in Andhra Pradesh State.
Warabandi             -    System of rotational irrigation
Zilla Parishad (ZP)  -    A District council
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOAP and agencies      -  April 1 - March 31
ARDC, Cooperatives          -  July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks            - January 1 - December 31






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND COMMAND AREA
DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . ............................ .  i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..................   oo- ...-........ o..................    1
II.   BACKGROUND ..... .............................              1
The  Economy   ... .....o.. 0 ..  . ... . ........... . .   * ....- .  1
Agriculture in India .  ......    ....... ,  .    2
Irrigation in India ...     ............ o.o.........  2
Agriculture and Irrigation in Andhra Pradesh           3
Project Formulation . ...  ...... . ....        * -....o  5
1II.   THE PROJECT AREAS  -o .......................o..oo.ooo.    5
General ....    . .. . , ...           .      . . .    5
Nagarjunasagar Project (Left and Right Bank
Areas)  *.......*....*.*                            6
Pochampad Irrigation Project .  ............ ---       8
Tungabhadra High Level Canal Project ....  .....       9
Agricultural Supporting Services .........  . ....   10
IV.   THE PROJECT      ........      ....................o...   11
Project Components ....... . . . . . . . . .  .... . ......  ..  11
Nagarjunasagar Project Infrastructure        ......   12
Irrigation and Drainage . ......... oooo ... ...   12
Roads        ...   -..........- -............-...............  13
Water Supply, Demand and Quality       ... ...  13
Engineering Design         ..... oo-  ...   14
Construction Methods .... ...... .. .........  15
Implementation Schedule ... ... -..--.....   15
Command Area Development  ............ ..   15
Components ..... .         ....... . . ..   15
Engineering Design ......... ....... ........  15
Construction Methods .       .............   16
Effects on Soil Fertility ....o .......   16
Cost of Engineering ......  ...............  16
Implementation Schedule ... ...... o-  ......  16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission including Messrs.
G.J. Tibor, S. Baker, P. Ljung, R. Pepper, A. Seager and C.J.R. Bridge (Bank)
and F. Ritchey and P. Borrowman (Consultants) who visited Andhra Pradesh in
August and October 1975. Mr. F. Hotes from Central Projects and Mr. M. Beutgen
from Country Programs assisted the mission in its field work.



-2-
Page No.
Monitoring  Project Performance  ..................                    16
NSP Irrigation Systems  Study  ..............                  16
Modernization  Studies and Plans  ...........                  17
Monitoring  Project Benefits  ................                 17
Project Preparation and Evaluation
Group, GOI ......... o........ ....... .......................  18
Agricultural  Extension Services   .............-                      18
Cost  Estimates  *  **  **  **  **  **  **  ** *........  ........    . . . .  .  18
F inanc ing  . . . . . . ... . ...  . ........... ...... ........      1 9
Procurement  ..... ......            ...........     ...........       20
Vehicles and Equipment  ....................                   20
Civil Works  ...              .......   ..... .. ......... .   20
Disbursements             ...............................................  21
Accounts and Audits  ...            ........ ..................        22
Environmental  Effects of the Project  ..  ..........                  22
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                      .............                22
Irrigation Department                                          oo ................ .....  22
Road Department  .................................                     24
Command Area Aut:hority ...............                                24
Agricultural Extension Services                 .................      25
Cost Recovery  *.... ...***.e*O           *........ ..............     26
VI.    PRODUCTION,  MARKETING,  PRICES AND FARM INCOMES  ....  o.                    28
Production .... ...-  ...                            ...    .          28
Market Prospects  .... o ...... .            . ...... -   ......... .  28
Processing  and Storage  ..........................                    29
Prices of Agricultural  Products               .................       29
Farm Incomes and Repayment Capacity                    ........        30
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFIC(ATION ...............                 o-    .......      31
General ...... .. ,0....                               ....            31
Extension Services  ...... o .... . .       . . ,......... ....        32
Command Area Development  .......  ...........*....                    32
Nagarjunasagar  I:rrigation Infrastructure                 ........    33
Summary of Economic  Rates of Return  ............                     36
Risk & Uncertainty  .......... ...... ...  ... ..                      36
VIII.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ... o ............                    37



-3-
ANNEXES
1.   Climatic Data, Project Areas
2.   NSP Irrigation and Drainage Works
3.   NSP Road Program
4.   CAD Component
5.   Water Balance NSP
6.   Cost Estimates
7.   Equipment Requirements
8.   Schedule of Expenditures, Proposed Allocation of the Loan
and Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.   Organization and Management of NSP Irrigation and Road Infra-
structure Works
10.   Organization and Management, Command Area Development
11.   Agricultural Supporting Services
12.   Agricultural Production and Marketing
13.   Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
14.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS
15670 - Organization Chart: Command Area Development Department
15671 - Implementation Schedule
15672 - Proposed Organization for Operation and Maintenance:
Nagarjunasagar Project
15673 - Organization Chart: Nagarjunasagar Project Construction
MAPS
11874    - Sub-Project Areas
11875    - NSP Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
12036    - NSP Road Program






INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND COMMAND AREA
DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The World Bank Group endorses India's irrigation development pro-
gram for the next decade which gives special emphasis to the completion of
irrigation projects under construction and accelerated command area
development (CAD) in already established and newly irrigated areas. Recent
Bank Group thinking has developed a composite project approach, under which
CAD works are initiated simultaneously in several command areas in a State to
test alternative methods of development and serve as a demonstration to
farmers. The first stage of any large-scale CAD Program must concentrate on
institution-building, in preparation for more extensive subsequent stages.
Implementation targets for the first stage are set low, but the option of
advancing the date of repeater projects is open in case implementation is
faster than expected.
ii.       The proposed Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and CAD Composite Project
would complete infrastructural investment in Andhra Pradesh's largest irriga-
tion project, the Nagarjunasagar Project (NSP), and initiate command area
development on 72,000 ha in four irrigation commands in the State, including
the NSP Right and Left Bank areas. The project would be the first step in a
CAD Program ultimately covering an area of over one million hectares in the
four project areas; it would provide a road system in NSP for an area of
870,000 ha and complete the irrigation distribution and drainage systems for
an area of 330,000 ha. Agricultural supporting services, especially extension,
would be strengthened and their cost, during the project implementation
period, would be financed under the project.
iii.      In a subsequent stage of the project, to be implemented within the
next 20 years, the irrigation system would be improved to reduce excessive
conveyance and operational losses. A detailed monitoring program of system
efficiencies forms part of the present project and would provide data for
subsequent modernization, as well as information for the design of other
major irrigation projects in India. The monitoring of project benefits
and studies to determine field irrigation efficiencies are included in the
program. Project effects on on-farm and off-farm employment for family and
non-family labor would also be studied.
iv.       Andhra Pradesh is the fifth largest and fourth most populous State
in India. About 70% of the people are dependent on agriculture. The net
area irrigated is more than 2 M ha, which represents about 25% of the total
cultivated area.
v.        In the NSP command area, the large majority of the holdings (80% to
90%) are farmed by owner-cultivators. Irrigation facilities to be completed
by the project would serve about 100,000 of the 260,000 farm families living



- ii -
in the total command area. The average farm size is 3.4 ha. The average
net annual income from farming, including the imputed value of produce
consumed on the farm, is Rs 4,000 per family or US$70 per person.
vi.       In the Tungabhadra Project High Level Canal CAD area, the number
of farm families which would be affected by the first stage command area
development is estimated at 1,000. Average land holdings are 6 ha. In the
Pochampad Irrigation Project (Credit 268-IN), CAD initially would cover
about one-third of the command arEa, and the balance would be taken up under
subsequent stages of the project. Some 15,000 farm families (average land
holding 2.2 ha) would benefit from the first stage program.
vii.      Agricultural production in the four sub-project areas already
receiving water has net met expectations due to a lack of CAD, inadequate
roads and lack of drainage in the NSP areas, as well as ineffective agricul-
tural supporting services.
viii.     Project implementation for the infrastructural investment in NSP
and the extension services would take five years. The first stage CAD
Program (72,000 ha) for the four areas would be completed in about three
years, to be followed by repeater projects.
ix.       Total project costs, net of taxes and duties, are estimated at
US$297.0 million with a foreign exchange component of US$64.0 million (22%).
The proposed credit of US$145.0 million would finance the foreign exchange
costs of the project and 35% of local costs, or 49% of total costs.
The Government of India (GOI) would re-lend the proceeds of the credit (ex-
cept disbursements for on-farm development and project preparation) to the
Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) in accordance with its standard arrange-
ments for State Development Projects. On-farm works would be financed by
farmers using loans from commercial and land development banks. The banks
would be refinanced by the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) at a rate of 75% to 80% for secured loans and 100% for farmers ineligi-
ble for ordinary land development loans. The loans for ineligible farmers
would be drawn from a revolving fuad set up in ARDC and funded through GOI,
ARDC and GOAP contributions.
x.        Out of US$13.8 million worth of vehicles and equipment to be pro-
cured under the project, US$7.7 million would be subject to international
competitive bidding. About US$1.1 million worth of equipment in contracts
costing less than US$100,000 each would be purchased locally through the
normal procurement procedures of GOAP. The balance of US$5.0 million,
principally consisting of vehicles, would be purchased for local procurement
and would not be eligible for reimbursement. Civil works on the NSP Main
Canals, estimated at US$43.1 million, would be grouped in tenders of at least
US$5.5 million and subject to international competitive bidding, with a 7.5%
preference for local contractors in accordance with the Board resolution of
January 22, 1974 (R 73-291). Other civil works in irrigation, drainage and
road construction, valued at US$85.7 million, cannot be grouped into contracts
large enough to be of interest to international contractors. These works
would be carried out through small, mostly annual contracts.



- iii -
xi.       In order to ensure full cooperation between all departments con-
cerned with CAD, GOAP has set up a CAD Department on the State level and has
nominated Administrators for CAD at the project level. On-farm development
works in the project areas would be compulsory and the full cost of works
would be recovered from the beneficiaries. Satisfactory legislation em-
powering the Secretary CAD to carry out the works has been drawn up.
xii.      Water charges would be raised in NSP to cover capital recovery and
operation and maintenance charges of the irrigation and drainage systems
constructed by the project. On-farm development works would be fully paid for
by the beneficiaries.
xiii.     The economic rate of return of all previous and planned investment
in NSP is estimated at 15%. The rate of return of the incremental invest-
ment in infrastructure and CAD, including extension, would range between
20% and 25%, depending on the assumptions made for system water use effi-
ciencies. For the CAD Program in Pochampad and Tungabhadra, the economic
rate of return would be about 45%.
xiv.      The project is suitable for a loan of US$145 million on standard
Third Window terms of 25 years, including a seven year grace period. The
Borrower would be India.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION
AND COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT
COMPOSITE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested Bank Group assistance
in financing the Nagarjunasagar Irrigation Project (NSP) and commmand area
development (CAD) in other major irrigation projects in the State of Andhra
Pradesh (AP). The project would include the completion of the canal and
drainage networks and the construction of a village road network in NSP and
initiate CAD in NSP, Pochampad and Tungabhadra High Level Canal command areas.
The project would be the third Bank Group irrigation project in AP and the
fourth Bank Group operation in the State.
1.02      Construction of Nagarjunasagar Dam on the Krishna River has been
completed. Construction of the Left and Right Bank Canals is about one-half
completed, no drainage works have yet been started, and the road network
serving the area is inadequate. Command area development was initiated
in the Pochampad Project area under an Agricultural Credit Project (226-IN)
but has been constrained by the lack of a suitable organization to design and
implement the program. Project preparation was assisted by a team from the
FAO/ World Bank Cooperative Programme, resulting in a draft report (Andhra
Pradesh Composite Command Area Development Project -- Volume 1, No. 32/75 IND
24) dated July 31, 1975. The present report is based on the findings of an
Appraisal Mission comprising Messrs. G.J. Tibor, S. Baker, P. Ljung, R.
Pepper, A. Seager, and C.J.R. Bridge (Bank) and F. Ritchey and P. Borrowman
(Consultants) who visited Andhra Pradesh in August and October, 1975. Mr. M.
Beutgen from Country Programs and Mr. F. Hotes from Central Projects staff
assisted the Mission in its field work.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      India covers some 3,270 million km2 of which 43% is arable and
about 9% is under some kind of irrigation. India's population is about 600
million. Rapid population growth (2.3% p.a.) and a relatively poor natural
resource base have imposed sharp limitations on India's economic growth.
However, since the inception of economic development planning in 1950,
national income has grown at nearly 4% per year, compared with an average
growth rate of less than 1% during the preceding 50 years. In 1972, per
capita GNP was about US$110.



- 2 -
2.02      The Government's present development plans place great emphasis on
alleviating poverty and creating employment. This would be accomplished by
promoting labor-intensive techniclues, raising the productivity of subsistence
farmers, having a national program to supply the minimum needs of the poorest
segments of the population, and institutional tax measures to curb consumption
by the richer classes.
Agriculture in India
2.03      Agriculture is the most important sector in India.  It engages 70%
of the labor force and has recently contributed an average of about 45% of the
GNP. Agriculture also provides the base for most of India's exports, the most
important commodities being jute, tea, leather, cotton goods and cashew nuts.
Since 1965, India's development efforts have placed a major emphasis on
agriculture and have been oriented to promote the spread of modern technology
by increasing the availability of high yielding seeds and fertilizers, expand-
ing irrigation and developing modern credit institutions. Yet, despite the
impressive results of the "green revolution" in some areas since 1967, the
overall annual growth rate in agricultural output in the ten year period
ending in 1972 was only 3%, which was little more than population growth and
slightly lower than the growth rate in the previous decade.  This low overall
rate of growth in the agriculture sector has obscured considerable variations
over shorter periods of time, between crops, and between regions. The overall
rate has been very much affected by the serious droughts in 1965 and 1966 and
again in 1972 and 1974. At the same time, the success of high yielding
varieties of wheat has brought about increases in production of about 20% p.a.
between 1967 and 1971. Introduction of high yielding varieties of other
foodgrains, notably rice, has encountered difficulties arising from local
climatic and ecological conditions. The effects of the "green revolution,"
which primarily affected wheat, have been concentrated in northwestern India,
largely on account of the advanced state of agriculture in that area and the
availability of irrigation.
2.04      Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production,
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the vagaries of the weather.
Major factors in reducing this dependence would be the expansion of irrigation
and the rehabilitation of existing irrigation facilities.
Irrigation in India
2.05      Irrigation development since Independence falls into two well-
defined periods. Up to 1964/65, the gross irrigated area was increasing
at about 2.1% per year, of which approximately two-thirds was the result of
surface irrigation development and one-third was from groundwater. In the
second period, until about 1972/73, the gross irrigated area grew more than
twice as fast, or 4.5% per year, mainly due to accelerated groundwater develop-
ment.
2.06      The pace of surface water development has only increased very slight-
ly over the past twenty-five years (except perhaps for a moderate acceleration
in the past year or two). Plan targets for an accelerated pace of development
have never been fulfilled, although financial targets have generally been met.



-3 --
This appears to stem basically from spreading the available resources too
thinly over too many projects with the result that the area of projects under
construction is continually rising while the area being completed each year
remains about constant. Despite frequent policy statements to the effect
that efforts will be concentrated on project completion, this is always offset
by the need to start new projects.
2.07      On the whole this former point has come in for comparatively little
attention, instead attention has mainly focused on the lag between the time
when, in official parlance, irrigation potential has been "created", and the
time when it is "utilized". It would seem that the average lag has risen
from about two years in the First Plan to three years in the Fourth Plan and
that currently about 1.8 M ha of potential is unutilized. The major reason
for this is the lack of "command area development", which includes both
remedying the deficiencies in public investment needed to make it pos-
sible to utilize irrigation water supplied in the system (drainage, extension
research, roads, markets) as well as investment in water course construction
and on-farm development. However, what has received virtually no attention
is whether the engineering design, on which the size of the area commanded and
the irrigation intensities are based, is itself realistic or whether system
losses etc., are not altogether underestimated, thus enforcing a level of
utilization which is much lower than planned.
2.08      In view of the substantial investment that has already been made
in major irrigation works, the economic return on investment which facil-
itates effective use of the water provided can be very high. Consequently,
CAD has been given high priority under the draft Fifth Plan proposals, and a
relatively large proportion of public sector investment in irrigation has been
allocated for this purpose. In addition, major institutional changes have
been proposed affecting the coordination of services in command areas and the
administration of credit. Command area development is a laborious process,
requiring considerable administrative work and organizational capacity. The
initial period in a CAD Program must be devoted to building institutions
capable of implementing large scale programs. Pilot work in as many irri-
gation project commands as possible is required to test alternative methods
of on-farm development, thus gaining a clearer idea of costs and farmers'
reactions to the program. In the initial stage of the program, the projects
require heavy inputs of manpower for preparation against relatively small
sums for investments. The area developed per year in India can only grow
as the result of the multiplication of individual CAD programs spread over
a large number of projects.
2.09      While emphasizing the need to improve water utilization through
CAD, the Government is at the same time pursuing the objective to increase
the area under irrigation, in particular where only incremental investments
are required. Thus, completion of on-going irrigation developments are given
high priority.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Andhra Pradesh
2.10      The State of Andhra Pradesh, with an area of 275,000 km  and a popu--
lation of 43.4 million (1973 census), is the fifth largest and fourth most



- 4 -
populous in India. About 70% of the people are dependent upon agriculture for
their livelihood and about 40% of the area of the State is cultivated with
rice, millet, pulses, and groundnuts as the major crops. Some one-third of
the area of the State covering about one-fourth of the population, is class-
ified as "drought-affected". A quarter of the net cultivated area is under
irrigation (2.7 million ha).   The rest depends upon rainfall, which ranges
from about 500 mm annually in the southwest to 1,100 mm in the northeast.
2.11      The main sources of irrigation are two major rivers, the Godavari
and the Krishna, and their tributaries. Numerous irrigation canals branch
from these rivers. The upland areas use rainfed tanks and groundwater for
irrigation.
2.12      During the past 25 years, Andhra Pradesh has invested heavily in
irrigation projects. Returns have been low, mainly because the available
resources have been spread over too many projects, resulting in long con-
struction and gestation periods and delayed benefits. However, in the
Fifth Five Year Plan, the development program of GOAP for the irrigation
sector has focused on the completion of the three major projects in the State
with some 80% of the budget allocated to the Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad
projects (Credit No. 268-IN, 1971, US$39 M) and the reconstruction of the
Godavari Barrage (Credit No. 532-IN, 1975, US$45 M), the latter two already
with IDA assistance. The Godavari Barrage will, by replacing an ancient weir,
secure irrigation water to the 400,000 ha command area in the Godavari Delta.
Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad, when completed, would bring about one million
hectares of previously rainfed land under irrigation.
2.13      Progress of the Pochampad Project was satisfactory during the first
two years of project implementation, and both construction work and credit
disbursements were ahead of schedule. However, as a result of acute shortages
in building materials and explosives, which occurred in 1973-75, completion of
essential project parts are likely to fall two years behind schedule. Dam
construction is now progressing satisfactorily. Water has been impounded for
the first time. On farm development works (CAD) were to be carried out under
a separate Agricultural Credit Project (226-IN). It became, however, quickly
apparent that for technical reasons (topography, land holding patterns, etc.)
CAD calls for an integrated plan for all farm holdings supplied from an irri-
gation outlet with construction work carried out on all holdings at the same
time. Such an approach to CAD needed a competent administrative and technical
organization for planning and implementation, backstopped by suitable finan-
cial and legal frameworks.
2.14      Following the new Bank Group Policy approved by the Executive
Directors on January 22, 1974, ICB for civil works construction became
acceptable to GOI, and Bank Group financing of major irrigation works again
became possible. The first irrigation project taken up again under the new
policy was the reconstruction of the Godavari Barrage. Progress on this
project is on schedule.



-5-
Project Formulation
2.15      Agricultural production in irrigated areas in Andhra Pradesh has
not increased to the extent envisaged because of:
(a)   lack of on-farm development resulting in inefficient
water use;
(b) extension services which are only partly effective, due
to organizational problems and lack of training;
(c) incomplete water conveyance systems and insufficient
control structures to use the water effectively;
(d) poor drainage conditions; and
(e) inadequate road networks, causing high transport costs.
2.16      Irrigated areas in need of CAD in Andhra Pradesh are estimated to
be in excess of two million hectares. As CAD is a slow process (para 2.09)
recent Bank Group thinking has evolved towards a CAD composite project
approach, covering an entire state. Under this approach, CAD is initiated in
as many commands as possible in first stage, short-duration pilot projects
(three years). They are aimed at the establishment of local expertise and
the instigation of farmer awareness of this type of development. This is the
first composite CAD project.
2.17      The proposed project also would complete Andhra Pradesh's  largest
irrigation project, albeit to a standard which is less than required to ensure
a fully effective use of the water resource.
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
General
3.01      The composite project encompasses four of the principal irrigation
schemes in the State of Andhra Pradesh accounting for nearly half of the canal
irrigated area in the State; the Left and Right Banks of the Nagarjunasagar
Irrigation Project, the Pochampad Irrigation Project, and the Tungabhadra High
Level Canal Area (Map No. 11874). Hyderabad, the capital of the State, is
centrally located between the four project areas. About 3.2 million people
live in the four command areas. The socio-economic structure in the areas
varies slightly but on the average 30% to 35% of the labor force are owner or
tenant cultivators, 45% to 50% are landless agricultural workers and the
remaining 20% are employed outside agriculture.



- 6 -
3.02      The cultivated area and the population of the four irrigation
schemes are:
Command /a      Present        Number of
Area (ha)      Population        Farms
Pochampad                100,J000       350,000           45,000
Nagarjunasagar RBC        475,000     1,600,000          150,000
Nagarjunasagar LBC        397,000     1,100,000          110,000
Tungabhadra    HLC        95,000         150,000          15,000
Total             1,067,000      3,200,000         320,000
/a   At full development.
3.03      All 320,000 farm families would benefit from the improved agri-
cultural extension services of the project. Ultimately, most of the farmers
would benefit from the CAD component. However, during the first three-year
phase of the CAD program only about 20,000 farms would be reached. The primary
benefits of the irrigation infrastructure component of the project would go to
some 100,000 farm families in the two Nagarjunasagar command areas where
irrigation works would be completed by the project.
3.04      Recently, land tenancy has been abolished and all owners are re-
quired by law to cultivate their own land. However, during a transitional
period some types of tenancy arrangements are still valid. Some informal
arrangements exist outside the provisions of the law but about 90% of the
farmers cultivate only their own land. Some 1 to 2% of the farmers are pure
tenants and roughly 10% cultivate some leased land besides their own. The
tenancy arrangements vary substantially. In some cases the tenant pays a
fixed rent, either in cash or kind; in other cases, he pays a fixed proportion
of the crop (varying from one-third to two-thirds) to the owner.
Nagarjunasagar Project (Left and Right Bank Areas)
3.05      Planning for the Nagarjunasagar Project (NSP) dates back to 1930,
when site explorations for construction of a major storage dam and reservoir
on the Krishna River at Nandikonda were initiated by the Hyderabad Government.
The Government of India (GOI) set up the Khosla Committee in 1951 to examine
alternative proposals by the then States of Hyderabad and Andhra. Also in
1951, the dependable flow of the Krishna was allocated between the riparian
States in a decision by the GOI P:lanning Commission. The Khosla Committee
reported its findings in 1952 and the Nandikonda Report was prepared jointly
by the States of Andhra and Hyderabad in 1954. Construction of the project
was initiated in 1955. The dam is now complete, apart from the addition of
power generating facilities, and construction of the first stage of the Left
and Right Bank Canals is more than one-half completed.  Areas planned to be
irrigated under this project tota:L 397,000 ha (980,000 ac) on the Left Bank
and 475,000 ha (1,174,000 ac) on the Right Bank.



-7-
3.06      Climate.  The rainfall varies considerably over the extensive
command area and occurs principally in two monsoon seasons, the first (south-
west monsoon) in the kharif season from June to September and the second
(northeast monsoon) in the rabi season from October to December. Nearly
70% of the annual rainfall in the Left Bank and 55% in the Right Bank area
occurs in the kharif season. About 20% of the annual rainfall in the Left
Bank and about 30% in the Right Bank area occurs during the rabi season.
The annual average rainfall ranges from 680 mm (at Huzurnagar) to 1,110 mm
(at Eluru in the coastal area). The temperatures range from a low of about
150C in December to about 450C in May. Relative humidity ranges from about
30% to about 80%, with a mean of about 60%. Evaporation ranges from about 145
mm in November and December to about 350 mm in May (Annex 1).
3.07      Topography and Soils.  There are two types of soils in the project
area, the black clayey soils occupying the lower elevations and the red
sandy soils on the higher lands. The black soils are in gently undulating
topography, with slopes commonly less than 1%, and occur over about two-thirds
of the Right Bank area and one-third of the Left Bank area. The red soils,
accounting for the remainder of the area, are in rolling topography with
slopes generally in the 1% to 3% range. They are shallow, and about 25% are
less than 30 cm deep. The black soils are generally deeper with about 90%
more than 45 cm deep. For land development, the most significant characteri-
stics are the shallow depth of the red soils, the low fertility of the under-
lying murrum and the irregular topography. The black soils have low-to-moder-
ate permeability and are well suited to rice production. The red soils have a
moderate-to-high rate of permeability and are better suited for upland crops.
3.08      Existing Irrigation and Drainage.  The irrigation distribution
system for about 335,000 ha (827,000 ac) on the Right Bank and 206,000 ha
(508,000 ac) on the Left Bank would be completed by July 1976. Most of this
area received irrigation during the 1975 irrigation season.
3.09      Drainage facilities have not been provided since irrigation has
been introduced only recently.  A system of natural drainageways resulting
from the rolling topography has drained the area effectively in the past.
Sub-surface drainage is not contemplated, since rice will be the principal
crop in the black soils, and the red soils, in general, are well drained.
Sustained irrigation in the black soils, however, would cause waterlogging
and increased salinity unless adequate surface drainage is provided. Drain-
age requirements will be identified and resolved as the project is imple-
mented. Drainage requirements presently are confined to small, localized
areas but will increase significantly as the full irrigation potential of the
project is realized. Small, localized salt-affected areas are known to exist
in the project command area.
3.10      Agricultural Production.  The main rainfed crops in the kharif
are pearl millet (bajra), sorghum (jowar), pulses, oilseeds, and some cotton.
In the rabi, the main rainfed crops are pulses, millet and fodder. Under
irrigation, paddy is the principal kharif crop and in rabi, rice, groundnuts
and (on black soils) cotton. Cultivators in already irrigated areas have been



- 8 -
more or less free to grow paddy regardless of whether localized for irrigated
wet (IW) or irrigated dry (ID) crops. Generally, they grow two irrigated
crops per year. This has been possible because of an excess amount of irriga-
tion water available during the early years of project implementation. As the
irrigated area expands, the surplus will disappear. Government permission
allowing temporary irrigated double cropping has now been withdrawn. With the
completion of the canals, the irrigation water supply to each cultivator would
be restricted in accordance with the design cropping pattern. A considerable
reduction from present income levels may result for those cultivators who have
had irrigation water for double cropping.
3.11      Status of Land Development.  Irrigation has followed closely behind
canal construction. In view of the available surplus water, most cultivators
have prepared their holdings for paddy by leveling the fields, constructing
bunds and using field-to-field irrigation. Generally only a single field
channel traverses the area served by an outlet. This type of land develop-
ment is not suited to upland crops without modification and is only marginally
acceptable for paddy. On-farm development in areas coming under irrigation
would conform to the type of cropping proposed.
3.12      Transportation and Marketing.  The project area is well provided
with main arterial roads leading to India's principal ports and cities. Main
railway lines also traverse the project area on the same general alignment as
the principal highways. The transportation network includes national highways,
State highways and District roads. The condition of this road system is
generally satisfactory in the Right Bank area and in undeveloped areas of
the Left Bank. However, considerable deterioration has taken place in the
more fully developed areas on the Left Bank. Various Zilla Parishad and
Samithi Councils are responsible for the local village roads, which are mostly
little more than dry weather tracks. Their alignments are poor and, in some
cases, earthworks have been started but never completed. Erosion over the
years has reduced the road level in many sections to below the surrounding
ground level and drainage is generally inadequate. Every village constitutes
a major bottleneck as by-passes have not been provided and the streets are
invariably narrow and winding. Due to lack of funds, virtually no maintenance
has been carried out for many years and reconstruction of most village roads
is required.
Pochampad Irrigation Project
3.13      General.  The first stage (100,000 ha) of the Pochampad Irrigation
Project is being developed with IDA assistance.   Completion of the canal
system is expected by June 1978. The project includes a dam on the Godavari
River, an irrigation system and road infrastructure (para 2.12 - 2.13). The
topography, climate, hydrology, soils, land tenure, agronomy and infrastructure
of the Pochampad Project area are described in the IDA Appraisal Report No.
PA-90a, dated June 16, 1971. Dependable water supply for one crop is provided
from regulated flows of the Godavari River and for a partial second crop from
about 25,000 open dug wells in the 100,000 ha service area of the project.



- 9-
Tungabhadra High Level Canal Project
3.14      General.  The Tungabhadra High Level Canal (HLC) Project is a
component of the Tungabhadra scheme conceived as a protective irrigation
project to serve the drought-affected Districts of Raichur and Bellary in
Karnataka, and Kurnool, Anantapur and Cuddapah in Andhra Pradesh. The
Tungabhadra Dam and Reservoir, completed in 1958, regulates the flows of
the Tungabhadra River and provides water for irrigation and power develop-
ment. The Tungabhadra High Level Canal is a seasonal canal intended to
provide supplemental irrigation to 95,000 ha during the kharif and early rabi
seasons. The first stage (45,000 ha) and the Guntakal Branch Canal and its
tributaries are complete.
3.15      Climate.  The area receives rainfall during both the southwest
and northeast monsoons. Average annual rainfall at Anantapur is 580 mm, 90%
of which occurs between May and October. Variations from year to year are
considerable. The rainfall pattern also -is marked by extreme unreliability
month by month and periods without rain for one month or more may occur at
any time during the monsoon season. It is these drought periods which are
responsible for the almost complete failure of crops, especially on the
red soils. Generally, rainfall is highest and most dependable during the
months of September and October.
3.16      Mean monthly temperatures are highest during April and May, reaching
320C. Occassional heavy rainstorms may occur during these months. Temper-
atures drop off to around 270C and 280C during the main period of the monsoon.
Winters are mild and short with temperatures of about 250 C from November to
the end of January.
3.17      Topography and Soils.  The area has a gently rolling topography with
slopes averaging between 1% and 1-1/2%.  About 80% of the area has clay soils
of more than 90 cm in depth.  Sandy loams and sandy clay loams occupy 13% of
the area.  The remainder consists of eroded or saline/alkaline soils which can
be reclaimed.  Due to the rolling topography, natural drainage of the area is
fairly good.  Some low-lying areas have become waterlogged, or are in danger
of becoming waterlogged with an increase in irrigation.
3.18      Agricultural Production.  Where there is irrigation, paddy is grown
on the IW lands. Hybrid cotton has become popular on ID lands. Groundnuts
are grown on the lighter soils. Improved varieties of pearl millet and
sorghum are also grown.
3.19      Transportation and Marketing.  The principal transportation network
in the Tungabhadra area is adequate and in relatively good condition. Main
roads pass through various sectors of the command area.



- 10 -
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.20      Agricultural Research.  The four sub-project areas are served by
the research activities of the State Agricultural University in Rajendranagar
near Hyderabad and by the Agricultural College in Bapatla, in the Krishna
Delta area. The All-India Coordinated Research Programs are located in
Rajendranagar (rice, sorghum, maize), Karimnagar (maize) and Guntur (cotton).
The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT)
in Hyderabad is a major recipient of assistance from the Consultative Group
on International Agricultural Research sponsored by the Bank. It has been
functioning since 1973 and is making major contributions to the understanding
of the constraints in the development of crops other than rice. Research
backstopping is good; however, speedier and more frequent exchanges with the
extension services are needed.
3.21      Agricultural Extension activities suffer from a staff shortage,
lack of adequate housing for the field staff near their area of work and
a lack of transport at all levels. The system of management, continuing
refresher training, and the vital formalized communication with the research
organizations is also inadequate for the needs of the project.
3.22      Agricultural Inputs Services:
a.   Seed supplies and quality are adequate; they have recently been
appraised by IDA and a project for strengthening areas of weakness and devel-
oping further the inter-State potential for the production and distribution
of rice seeds is under preparation.
b.   Fertilizers are being distributed by an extensive network of private
and cooperative dealers, augmented by sales points operated by the extension
service. While provisions exist to compensate for extra transport costs
incurred in servicing sales points away from the main lines of communica-
tions, recent shortages have enabled the sellers to dispose of all their
supplies near the major centers. Given the enhanced demand under the
project and stronger competition, it is expected that this problem will be
resolved.
c.   Pesticides are provided by private and cooperative dealers and
formulators who also sell sprayers. The former will soon be regulated by
legislation, already enacted in other States, as to indicating composition
and shelf life of the chemicals.  The latter would require modernization
in the use of materials and design.
d.   Short-term credit comes from cooperatives and commercial banks.
Funds are available to increase operations among farmers eligible to receive
credit.



- 11 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Components
4.01      The proposed project is the first of the composite command area
development (CAD) projects planned for Bank Group assistance in India.
4.02      The project would include:
(a) completion of the NSP Left Main Canal (about 65 mi)
and the construction of irrigation and drainage
facilities to serve about 191,000 ha (472,000 ac) of
the 397,000 ha (980,000 ac) Left Bank area;
(b) completion of the NSP Right Main Canal (about 29 mi)
and the construction of irrigation and drainage
facilities to serve about 140,000 ha (347,000 ac)
of the 475,000 ha (1,174,000 ac) Right Bank area;
(c) rehabilitation, upgrading or construction of- about
1575 km of village roads in the NSP command area;
(d) Command area development covering 72,000 ha (178,000 ac)
of land in four major irrigation schemes in Andhra Pradesh.
Pilot or first stage land improvement work would be pro-
vided for:  16,000 ha in the NSP Left Bank area; 16,000 ha
in the NSP Right Bank area; 33,600 ha in the Pochampad
Irrigation Project area, and 6,400 ha in the Tungabhadra
High Level Canal area. The areas in which land develop-
ment would be carried out are principally new areas coming
under irrigation for the first time, rather than areas
already under irrigation requiring improvement or remedial
work;
(e) special studies of the NSP irrigation distribution system
to determine and evaluate system operation and seepage
losses. Project modernization studies would also be made
to determine possible modifications or additions to the
irrigation system to achieve improved irrigation effi-
ciencies;
(f) a program to monitor crop yields in the four project
command areas and to monitor and define field irrigation
efficiencies below the turnouts in the NSP Left and Right
Bank areas. The studies would attempt to define project
benefits resulting from irrigation, command area develop-
ment, and extension service work in the project area;



- 12 -
(g) procurement of vehicles and equipment;
(h) extension service assistance.
Detailed descriptions are given in Annexes 2, 3, 4 and 11.
Nagarjunasagar Project Infrastructure
4.03      Irrigation and Drainage.  The Nagarjunasagar Project consists of
three units: (1) a storage and diversion dam and reservoir on the Krishna
River at Nandikonda; (2) the Right Bank Irrigation System, comprised of the
126 mi long Right Canal, which heads at the dam with an initial capacity
of 11,000 cfs (stage 1), and major and minor canal distributors to irrigation
turnouts serving from 40 to 50 ha; and (3) the Left Bank irrigation sys-
tem, which includes the Left Canal and Main Branch Canal extension (initial
diversion capacity of 11,000 cfs and a total length of 187 mi) and major
and minor distributors. The dam and reservoir and portions of the irrigation
distribution systems are complete. Irrigation water has been supplied to
an increasingly larger portion of tne command area since 1967. The Bank
project would include irrigation and drainage works to be tendered after
January 1, 1976.
4.04      The Right Canal would be extended from mile 86 to mile 126.  About
11 mi of this reach are presently being constructed or are under contract.
The Bank project would include the remaining 29 mi of main canal, the con-
struction of 59 canal structures not yet under contract, the Pamidipadu,
Darsi and Ongole branch canals and about 900 mi of major and minor distributor
canals. The canals would be unlined and would include structures for water
control and delivery. A total of about 650 mi of natural drainage channels
would be improved and deepened and about 1,600 mi of intermediate drains
from the pipes to the natural drains would be constructed as the project
develops and drainage requirements are identified.
4.05      On the Left Bank, the 21st Main Branch Canal, an extension of the
Left Canal, would be extended from mile 10/6 to mile 76. A total of 142
structures and 65 mi of channel would be constructed. The Bonakal, Madhira,
and Nuzividu and Mylavaram Branch Canals and about 620 mi of major and minor
distributors would be provided. Construction of the canals and distributors
and the provision of structures in the Left Bank area would be similar to that
in the Right Bank area. Drainage system improvements would include deepening
and improving about 950 mi of the natural drainage channels and the construc-
tion of about 2,350 mi of intermediate drains from the pipes to the natural
drainage ways.
4.06      On-farm water distribution and drainage works at the pipe level
would be provided under the staged Command Area Development Program for both
the NSP Right and Left Bank areas as well as the Pochampad and Tungabhadra
project areas (para 4.18).



- 13 -
4.07      Roads.  The road improvement and construction program would provide
a village road network covering the entire NSP area.  The layout has been
designed to provide all-weather access from the main network roads to a point
not more than 4 km distant from every village.  This is in line with the GOI
norm for the provision of roads in areas of rural development.  Roads for
operation and maintenance (O&M) would be built along both banks of the
Right and Left Canals and along one bank of the branch canals and the larger
major and minor distributors as a part of the irrigation infrastructure.  A
total of about 400 km (250 mi) of 0&M roadways would be built along banks of
canals included in the project in the NSP Right Bank area and about 650 km
(400 mi) in the NSP Left Bank area. These roadways would be incorporated into
the village road network. The road improvement and construction program would
take five years and comprise:
(a) the rehabilitation of about 630 km of existing
waterbound macadam roads;
(b) improvements to about 415 km of existing earth
roads to waterbound macadam standards; and
(c) the construction of about 530 km of new waterbound macadam
roads.
The standards to be adopted for the road work are generally sound and fol-
low Indian Government standards. A detailed description of roads included
in the project is given in Annex 3.
4.08      Water Supply, Demand and Quality. Irrigation water for the project
would be supplied from Nagarjunasagar Reservoir. A total of 264 thousand
million cubic feet (TMC) annually has been allocated to the NSP by the Krish-
na Water Tribunal, equally divided between the Right and Left Bank areas.
An ample quantity of water is available in the Krishna River at the dam
to supply the additional irrigation requirements of the project in excess
of the 264 TMC allocation until about 1995 when upstream projects with alloca-
ted rights will have been developed. Additional water conservation and
water use measures (reducing canal seepage and operational losses and increas-
ing irrigation efficiencies) would have to be implemented before 1995 to
reduce water requirements to the 264 TMC allocation. Since the opportunity
cost of the excess water for the next 20 years will be zero, there is no
economic justification for carrying out these measures under the present
project. A history of the Krishna River water allocation proceedings and a
summary of water balance studies for the Nagarjunasagar Project are given in
Annex 5.
4.09      Water requirements studies were severely hampered by a lack of
observed data regarding plant water requirements, field efficiencies, con-
veyance efficiencies and operational losses which therefore had to be esti-
mated to a large extent. The Bank's estimates of irrigation efficiency at full
development are lower than those made by GOI. The water requirements for



- 14 -
each crop were determined by the CLass A Pan Evaporation method using observed
and estimated values. Irrigation requirements were based on crop use and
irrigation system efficiency criteria included in Annex 5 and calculated using
computer programs developed by the Bank.   Both the Bank and GOI values were
used in the computations. Water requirements are expected to range from 189
to 206 TMC for the Right Bank command area and from 173 to 196 TMC for the
Left Bank command area, depending on the basic assumptions made. Assurances
were obtained from GOI that the State of Andhra Pradesh would be free to use
the excess water flowing in the Krishna River without, however, acquiring
permanent rights to this flow. An assurance from GOAP was also obtained that
it would make available at the dam site additional water over and above the
264 TMC allocated to NSP as may be required to irrigate according to the
cropping patterns agreed between the Bank and GOAP. The additional water would
be required until such time as overall water use efficiencies improve suffi-
ciently to make it unnecessary. Hvdroelectric power stations are at present
under construction at the Nagarjuniasagar and the upstream Srisailam dams. An
assurance was obtained from GOAP that the reservoir operation programs for
these power stations would be fullv coordinated with irrigation needs of NSP.
4.10      Water in the Krishna River at the Nagarjunasagar Dam is of good
quality and has been used for irrigation with excellent results for many
years. Chemical tests from the Nagarjunasagar Reservoir show the specific
conductivity to be less than 300 micromohs per cm. The water is slightly
alkaline (ph 7.8) and contains less than 200 ppm of water soluble salts.
4.11      Engineering Design.  The canal and structure designs follow esta-
blished Indian practices. Project planning studies, designs and estimates of
the irrigation and drainage systems and associated works are carried out by
the NSP engineering staff. Planning and design criteria are provided by the
Central Water Commission (CWC). Assumptions on conveyance efficiencies and
operational losses were the key criteria used to size the project. The
criteria used by GOI are considered by the Bank to be generally overly opti-
mistic. System losses commensurate with a design which provides complete
operational flexibility and a high level of water use discipline were assumed.
High conveyance and operational efficiencies, however, can be obtained only
with projects planned to respond quickly to changing weather conditions and
resulting fluctuations in water demand. The NSP system has been planned and
designed without this flexibility.   Minor modifications would be made in the
design of the irrigation system under the Bank project to improve operational
control. The modifications would include the provision of additional regu-
lators at five locations in the Right and Left Main Canals and design changes
for drop structures on the branch canals and major and minor distributors to
control flow adequately and assure water deliveries from all canal offtakes.
The proposed modifications were discussed with GOAP during negotiations.
4.12      Canal and structure surveys, test pit work, canal and structure
designs and specifications are either completed or are underway and scheduled
for completion not later than early 1978. Engineering surveys and designs for
the branch canals and the irrigation distribution systems in the irrigation
blocks would be completed by early 1978. Drainage requirements would be
identified and the drainage system provided during project development as
requirements become known. The status of engineering designs is presented in
more detail in Annex 2.



- 15 -
4.13      Construction Methods.  The construction of irrigation projects
in India is principally performed by manual labor. Present construction
practices in the project area make use of mechanical excavating, hauling
and compacting equipment only to construct high canal embankments for major
aqueducts at valley crossings and for canal excavation in rock for deep cuts
in excess of 10 m. Labor-intensive construction methods would be used for all
general project construction work. Sheepsfoot and road rollers would be used
for canal embankment compaction and for the compaction of roads. Canal
structures, except for span portions, would be constructed of masonry and the
stones would be hand quarried from nearby quartzite deposits, which underlie
most of the project area. Coarse aggregate for reinforced concrete would
be produced by manual labor from excavated rock. Additional construction
details are provided in Annex 2.
4.14      Implementation Schedule.  Since NSP is on-going, the new works
would be implemented in a relatively short period. Implementation of the
infrastructure components would take five years (Chart 15671). Irrigation
works to be tendered from January 1976 onward would be included in the project
insofar as the Bank's standards of tendering are followed. A minimum move in
and start up time would be required due to the existence of many contractors
and a large experienced labor pool in the area.
Command Area Development
4.15      Components.  Command area development would be undertaken for
a total area of 72,000 ha in the four command areas of the project over
a three year period. Land development work would be provided for a first
stage program comprising 16,000 ha in the NSP Left Bank area, 16,000 ha in
the NSP Right Bank area, 33,600 ha in the Pochampad Irrigation Project area,
and 6,400 ha in the Tungabhadra High Level Canal area. The work would in-
clude the construction of a network of field channels, field drains and
related structures (drops, distribution boxes and turnouts) in the command
of an outlet (pipe) and the necessary land leveling and shaping of the farm
holdings required for efficient utilization of irrigation water supplies
and cultivation practices. All irrigation and drainage channels would be
treated as communal property.
4.16      Land leveling and shaping would be compulsory on all farm hold-
ings and would be carried out to the specifications set by the Command Area
Authority (CAA). The pilot operation carried out in the Pochampad Project
during the last two years has confirmed the willingness of the farmers to
participate in the CAD Program. Implementation would be by the farmers
themselves or by the CAA through suitable contracting agencies with or
without financial assistance from commercial banks (CBs) or land development
banks (LDBs) (paras 4.33 and 5.13).
4.17      Engineering Design.  Planning and design of on-farm works would
be done on rectified aerial photographs. Soil and cadastral data would be
collected and suitably presented on the photos. The layout of farm channels



- 16 -
and drains and cost estimates would be prepared for the entire pipe. Re-
venue officers and representatives of the Land Development Division (LDD)
of the CAD Authority would discuss the plan with the villagers and obtain
their agreement. The individual holdings would then be resurveyed for the
preparation of the leveling and/or land shaping plan. A file, setting out
the cost of development, would be prepared for each farmer stating his
proportionate share of the cost of constructing the communally-owned works
and the cost for leveling his land.
4.18      Construction Methods.  Construction of watercourses (field channels
and drains) and the simple masonry structures would be let to small village
contractors. All excavation would be done by manual labor. The works would
be staked out and construction supervised by the LDDs of the CAA. Land
leveling work, generally involving moving small quantities of earth over short
distances would be awarded to contractors or farmers owning small wheeled
tractors. Tractor attachments required for the land leveling operation would
be procured by the CAA and rented to the contractors.
4.19      Effects on Soil Fertility.  In most areas, and especially on shallow
red soils, the earth moving involved would have a temporary adverse effect on
soil fertility. Experience from Pochampad shows that within three seasons,
loss of fertility is no longer noticeable.    Fertilizer applications over and
above the normally recommended dosage and the application of organic manure
would enhance yields. Farmers seem aware of such temporary inconvenience but
do not consider it a deterrent.
4.20      Cost of Engineering.  At present, engineering costs for the CAD
works are estimated to be in excess of Rs 600/ha or 40% of the cost of the
works (Rs 1,500 per ha). Undoubtedly, these percentages can be reduced with
more efficient work procedures. More experience in land leveling by contrac-
tors also would reduce the cost of supervision. However, in view of the type
of work involved, the engineering overhead is bound to remain high, probably
in excess of 25%.
4.21      Implementation Schedule.  Targets for on-farm development wotks
in the four command areas were set at 72,000 ha over a three year implement-
ation period. The Bank Group may consider providing financial assistance
for a follow-up CAD project as soon as these targets have been met.
Monitoring Project Performance
4.22      NSP Irrigation System Study.  There is a lack of data on present
levels of conveyance and operational losses and on field irrigation effi-
ciencies not only in the NSP canal system but all over India. To generate
such data, a large scale flow measuring program would be carried out in the
NSP area, with the necessary infrastructural investment and equipment needs
to be met from project funds. The study program would include the construc-
tion of 700 to 800 gauging stations at selected locations throughout the NSP
irrigation system on main canals, branch canals and major and minor distri-
butors.   Recorders would be installed at each gauging site to record canal



- 17 -
and lateral flows on a continuous basis. Gauging stations and the recorders
would be carefully rated. The data recorded on the flow charts or tapes would
be digitized and fed into a computer for calculating the flows throughout the
entire system. Consultants would assist in setting up the flow measure-
ment and automatic data processing program to insure that reliable data is
obtained.
4.23      Modernization Studies and Plans.  Corollary studies would be
made to determine possible modifications or additions to the NSP irrigation
system which could be taken to reduce seepage losses and increase operating
efficiencies throughout the system. Modern irrigation system planning con-
cepts would be used in the planning studies and the plans and estimates would
be prepared on the assumption of full control of irrigation deliveries. A
consultant would advise GOAP on this work.
4.24      The water measurement monitoring program staff would assist and
advise CAD personnel conducting the field irrigation efficency studies in the
pipe area (paras 4.25 to 4.27). Costs of the NSP irrigation system monitoring
program and modernization studies were estimated to be US$3.63 M, including
vehicles and equipment and consultant costs.
4.25      Monitoring Project Benefits.  A monitoring program would be set up
in the NSP command area to determine:
(a) the effect of irrigation on areas presently not irrigated;
and
(b) field irrigation efficiencies below the pipe turnouts
for various crops in the red and black soils.
In the four CAD areas included in the project, the program would monitor
selected pipes to define:
(a)  the impact of extension service assistance;
(b)  the effects of command area development on
presently irrigated land, and
(c)  project effects on on-farm and off-farm employment
for family and non-family members.
4.26      Monitoring would start in June/July  1977 and continue for four
years. Land ownership, occupancy, cropping patterns and intensities and
yields would be recorded. Farm labor surveys would cover all farmers who
have land in the recorded area, including their nearby fields and farms.
The off-farm employment survey would be an independent operation, taking
place in the first and final year of the monitoring program.



- 18 -
4.27      The project agricultural benefit monitoring activities would be
under the direction of the Secretary, CAD. A Senior Agricultural Officer
would be responsible for work performance and program coordination. The
work would be contracted to one or more local institutions selected by GOAP
and approved by the Bank. Water use and irrigation efficiency studies below
the turnouts would be conducted in close cooperation with and under the
guidance of the NSP engineering staff. The total cost of monitoring project
benefits and conducting the field irrigation efficiency studies is estimated
to be US$800,000.
4.28      Project Preparation and Evaluation Group, GOI.  The GOI is setting up
a technical group in the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation, to assist the
States in the preparation of major engineering projects for Bank financing.
The group, which will be composed of top level technicians of various dis-
ciplines, will also review the planning and design criteria used in these pro-
jects to make the projects responsive to the needs of modern irrigated farming.
The foreign currency cost of operating the group, over a three year period,
was estimated at US$50,000, for short-term consultancies and study trips to
inspect irrigation projects abroad.
Agricultural Extension Services
4.29      The Agricultural Extension Service would be reorganized and its op-
erating methods changed (para 5.14). All staff would have unimpeded mobility
to carry out their work assignment; they would be able to reside near their
work and participate in training courses outside Andhra Pradesh. The project
would provide vehicles, housing, training and office and storage space.
Cost Estimates
4.30      Cost estimates are based on actual contract prices for similar works
awarded recently. Engineering estimates, based on mid-1976 scheduled rates,
have been increased by about 8% to bring them in line with prevailing contract
prices. The total project costs are estimated at US$297 M, of which US$64 M
or 22% would be foreign exchange. Unit prices for equipment, materials and
supplies are based on recent quotations received by the Indian Government and
on 1976 price quotations of equipment suppliers. The cost estimates do not
include taxes and duties. The Government's costs for administration, design
and construction supervision are: estimated to be 20% of construction costs, in
accordance with previous cost records for this work. A physical contingency
factor based on the level of data preparation and the degree of investigations
completed was applied. It amounts to 20% for the NSP irrigation and drainage
system and 15% for the NSP road program, extension service costs and the
monitoring program. Costs for the drainage system were based on per acre
costs estimated for typical areas in both the Right and Left Bank command
areas. Costs due to expected price increases amount to about 35% of total
project costs in accordance with the following assumed annual inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rate
1976       1977-1979    1980-1981
Civil Works                     9              12           10
Equipment & Services            9               8            7



- 19 -
4.31      Details of project costs are presented in Annex 6 and are sum-
marized below:
Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
-----Rupees million----  ------US$ million----          %
NSP Right Canal
Infrastructure            455.2    101.8   557.0    50.6    11.3    61.9    18
NSP Left Canal
Infrastructure            597.5    139.5   737.0        66.4   15.5    81.9    19
Operation & Main-
tenance equipment         22.1      67.5    89.6        2.5    7.5    10.0    79
NSP Road Program            113.1      19.4   132.5       12.5    2.2    14.7    15
Road Construction
Equipment                   9.0       4.5    13.5        1.0    0.5       1.5    33
Command Area Develop-    130.5         22.5   153.0       14.5    2.5    17.0    15
ment
CAD Equipment                 5.4       1.8      7.2       0.6    0.2      0.8    25
Extension Services           16.2       2.6    18.8        1.8    0.3      2.1    13
Extension Service
Vehicles                     2.2       0.9     3.1        0.2    0.1      0.3    29
Monitoring Project
Performance (including   27.0        10.8    37.8        3.0    1.2       4.2    33
equipment cost of US$1.2 M)
GOI, Project Preparation &
Evaluation Group             -        0.5      0.5        -      0.1      0.1   100
Base Cost Estimate    1,378.2    371.8 1,750.0    153.1   41.4   194.5    24
Physical Contin-
gencies                   178.8      52.2   231.0       19.9    5.7    25.6    22
Expected Price
Increases                 540.0    152.0   692.0        60.0   16.9    76.9    22
Total Project Cost   2,097.0    576.0 2.673.0    233.0   64.0   297.0    22
Financing
4.32       The proposed loan of US$145 million would finance the foreign ex-
change components of the project (US$64 million) and 35% of the local costs or



- 20 -
about 49% of the total project cost. The loan would be made to GOI. Ir-
rigation, drainage and road construction would be financed by GOAP from
its development budget, which includes a GOI contribution. Operation and
maintenance costs would be financed by GOAP from its regular budget.
4.33      Assurances were obtained from GOI that:  (a) the proceeds of the
loan, except disbursements for on-farm development and for the project pre-
paration and evaluation group would be made available to GOAP, and (b) GOI
would cause GOAP to make arrangements in its annual development plans for the
provision of funds required for the implementation of the project in accord-
ance with the implementation schedule.
4.34      On-farm development works would be financed by the farmers using
funds provided by CBs and LDBs (LMBs) and by the Agricultural Refinance and-
Development Corporation (ARDC). The LDB and CB loans to eligible farmers
would be refinanced by ARDC. The loans to farmers ineligible for ordinary
bank credit (primarily due to unclear title) would be refinanced to 100% by a
revolving fund administered by ARDC. Details are given in Annex 10. Condition
of disbursement for the CAD component would be that evidence satisfactory to
the Bank has been furnished showing that Andhra Pradesh can at its option
carry out on-farm development works as it considers necessary in the project
area and recover the cost of such works from the farmers concerned, also that a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank has been executed between
GOI and ARDC and that ARDC has set up the revolving fund for financing loans
to farmers ineligible for ordinary bank credit.
Procurement
4.35      Vehicles and Equipment,  The estimated cost of vehicles and equip-
ment for project management, road construction, 0 & M and monitoring of NSP
is US$13.8 M. Out of this total, an estimated US$ 7.7 M would be subject
to international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
A preference, limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods or the pre-
vailing customs duty, if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
the evaluation of bids. About US$1.1 M worth of equipment and vehicles,
consisting of groups of contracts costing less than US$100,000 each, which for
reasons of efficiency are not suitable for ICB, would be purchased locally
through normal procurement procedures of GOAP, which are acceptable to the
Bank. The balance of US$5.0 M, principally consisting of rollers, trucks, 4-
wheel drive field vehicles, cars, cement mixers and some of the monitoring,
communication and workshop equipment, would be reserved for local procurement
and would not be eligible for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the loan.
4.36      Civil Works.  A review has been made on the suitability of the
project civil works for grouping into large enough contracts for ICB and the
following conclusions have been reached (amounts shown are basic costs, net of
physical and price contingencies and administration and engineering staff
costs but include the cost of materials such as cement and steel, which would
be supplied by GOAP at a fixed price to the contractors):



- 21 -
(a) Works on the NSP Main Canals (US$43.1 M). These works
would be issued for ICB, each tender for a minimum
value of US$5.5 M. Tenders may include works on both
the Left and Right Bank Canals and would be divided in
up to ten sub-contracts to encourage the participation
of local contractors. Local contractors participating
in the bidding would be entitled to a 7.5% preference.
Tender documents would clearly specify this preference
and the manner of its application;
(b) Works on the NSP Irrigation Distribution and Drainage Systems
(US$72.8 M). These works would be individually small and scattered
over a very large area and would need to be carried out in periods
between cropping seasons. Under these conditions, it would
not be feasible to group these works into large contracts suitable
for ICB;
(c) Roads (US$12.9 M). Because of the need for the road program
to keep pace with other project elements, particularly the
completion of the irrigation distribution and drainage systems,
the works must be spread over five years and cannot be grouped
into a contract which would attract large contractors; and
(d)  On-farm development (US$12.0 M).  These works would be
scattered over the four irrigation project areas. They
would need to be planned and implemented on short notice
and in a limited period of time to avoid unnecessary damage
to crops in the field. For these reasons, the works could
not be grouped into large multi-year contracts.
4.37      Except on the NSP main canals, it is proposed to carry out the works
by small, mainly annual, contracts to be advertised locally in accordance
with standard Government procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Where
this is not practicable, work would be carried out under force account, which
probably would include some of the drainage works. For road construction and
some on-farm works, the firms likely to bid would not possess all the equipment
required. Since the necessary equipment is simple and unlikely to be misused,
it would be provided under the project and hired out by the PWD and CAD
departments to the successful bidders.
Disbursements
4.38      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the cif
cost of directly imported equipment or the ex-factory price of equipment
manufactured locally, and at the rate of 70% for imported equipment procured
locally. Disbursement for civil works carried out by contract or force
account would be at agreed percentages (presently estimated at 66% for CAD
works and 60% for all other civil works). Disbursement for force account
would be made against a certificate of expenditure from GOAP. The document-
ation for this would not be submitted for the Bank's review but would be



- 22 -
retained by GOAP and made available for inspection during project supervision.
The estimated schedule of expenditures, the proposed allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the loan, and an annual disbursement schedule are presented in
Annex 8. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by December
1982, about one and one half years after the completion of the project.
Accounts and Audit
4.39      The PWD and CAD departments would be subject to normal Government
control and auditing procedures which are considered to be satisfactory. As-
surances were obtained from GOAP at negotiations that the accounts and
financial statements would be submitted to the Bank within nine months after
the end of each fiscal year.
4.40      Auditing procedures for ARDC are laid down in previous Credit Agree-
ments. Assurances were obtained that ARDC would require the lending banks
participating in the project to maintain separate accounts for project lending
and would ensure that the annual audited accounts of such banks would be
submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of their fiscal year,
together with a statement of project lending for such banks certified by
ARDC.
Environmental Effects of the Project
4.41      The malaria situation in India has worsened in recent years.  Past
construction of the distribution system in the NSP, without adequate provision
for drainage, has led to the creation of swampy areas and the contamination of
village wells. Construction of the proposed drainage facilities under the Bank
project would help alleviate these conditions, as well as lower groundwater
tables and reduce mosquitoe breeding habitats throughout the area. The
on-farm development work in the four command areas would result in better
water control and would reduce the risk of polluting village water supplies.
The project extension service would advise farmers on the judicious selection
of pesticides to avoid environmental damage.
4.42      Assurances were obtained from GOAP that any borrow pits excavated in
the course of construction under the project, will, as soon as is practicable,
be drained to remove or minimize any chances of mosquitoes breeding in stagnant
water in such pits. Also, that GOI and GOAP will take all such other measures
as they consider necessary to minimize all hazards of malaria and other
water-related diseases in the project area.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Irrigation Department
5.01      Jurisdiction for the NS? rests with the Irrigation Department of the
State of Andhra Pradesh, under the direction of the Minister of Irrigation.



- 23 -
The Chief Engineer, NSP, has overall responsibility for design and construc-
tion, under the general direction of the Secretary for Irrigation and Power.
Day-to-day responsibility for project execution rests with the Superintending
Engineers in the project areas. The present NSP organization for design and
construction consists of one design and one mechanical Circle located at Hill
Colony (Nagarjunasagar Dam), two construction Circles on the Right Bank
located at Karempudi and Pellur, and two construction Circles located on the
Left Bank at Tekulapally and Jaggayyapeta. Two additional Circles are being
established in the lower extremities of the command area, one at Kurichedu
on the Right Bank and one at Madhira on the Left Bank. Each Circle is com-
prised of three to five divisions, each headed by an Executive Engineer, and
each division is staffed by three to six Assistant Engineers and 10 to 27
Junior Engineers (Annex 9, Chart 15673). The organization of the NSP office
is sound, with competent and experienced staff in key positions.
5.02      Surveys, designs, specifications and tender documents for the Bank
project would be prepared by the NSP engineering staff for all sections of
the main canal, structures, and Irrigation Block distribution systems in
accordance with schedules established by the Chief Engineer. Construction
inspection would be provided by representatives of the Chief Engineer in
the respective construction Circles.
5.03      Operation and maintenance of the entire NSP irrigation and drain-
age system would be controlled by three Circles under the direction of the
Chief Engineer (Annex 9, Chart 15672). One Circle would be responsible
for operation of the dam, with separate divisions for regulation of water
flows, maintenance of equipment, and maintenance of services, including
the camp. Operation and maintenance of the Right Canal irrigation and
drainage network would be performed by one Circle located at Narasaraopet,
with five divisions (one yet to be established) in various parts of the
Right Bank command area. Operation and maintenance of the Left Canal net-
work would be the responsibility of a Circle located at Khammam, with
water regulation and maintenance duties delegated to four divisions (two
yet to be established) in specific areas throughout the command area. Main-
tenance of the existing canal network is satisfactory. Significant improve-
ments in water scheduling can be expected following the establishment of a
modern communications network and the construction of some additional control
structures.
5.04      Water delivery requirements would be determined at the divisional
level and correlated with the Superintending Engineers for the Right and
Left Bank command areas. The allocation of available water supplies to the
separate command areas would be the responsibility of the Chief Engineer.
For more effective water scheduling to the service outlets, close coordina-
tion between the extension service and project 0 & M staff would be required.
Operation and maintenance of the dam, main canals, distribution systems and
project drainage facilities to the pipe (or chak) level would be the respon-
sibility of the Irrigation Department through the project 0 & M organization.
Water distribution and maintenance of on-farm works below the pipe turnouts
would be the responsibility of the Pipe Committee under the instruction and



- 24 -
supervision of the Irrigation Officers. Operation and maintenance equipment
would be provided to ensure effective and timely operation of the project
and to enable project 0 & M personnel to maintain project facilities properly
and make emergency repairs quickly.
5.05      An independent engineering Circle would be set up under the Chief
Engineer to conduct the NSP irrigation system study and prepare modernization
plans and estimates.
5.06      Assurances were obtained from GOAP that an adequate annual 0 & M
budget would be provided for the proper maintenance of NSP irrigation and
drainage infrastructure works and for operational requirements and that
adequate measures would be taken to operate and maintain all irrigation
and drainage works in the pipe commands.
Road Department
5.07      The GOAP has appointed the Roads and Buildings Division of the Public
Works Department (R & B) to act as sole executing agency for the construction
and maintenance of the project roads. The CAD Department and R & B jointly
selected the roads to be included in the project. Funds for the program
would be allocated from the CAD budget.
5.08      Strengthening of the ex-isting R & B organization would be necessary
to deal with the program effectively. Recruitment of additional staff would
pose no problems. The R & B Circle to be set up under the project would have
its headquarters within the command area and would comprise up to six divi-
sions, each of which would control three to four sub-divisions. The Circle
would be headed by a Superintending Engineer, reporting to the Chief Engineer,
R & B, who in turn would be responsible to the Secretary, CAD, for the execution
of the road program. The Chief Engineer would have a small coordinating unit
for the project within his headquarters which would be supervised by an
Assistant Engineer. Each division would be run by an Executive Engineer and
each sub-division by an Assistant Engineer. All engineers would be professionally
qualified. The Circle would be responsible for all surveys, designs, prepar-
ation and supervision of contracts and of quality control. For assistance
with pavement design and quality control, the Circle would have direct access
to the existing materials laboratory at Guntur, which is capable of undertaking
the required materials selection and works acceptability testing.
5.09      An assurance was obtained from GOAP that it shall maintain and re-
pair, or cause to be maintained and repaired, all roads included in the pro-
ject, in accordance with sound engineering practices.
Command Area Authority
5.10      Following the guidelines of GOI, the GOAP established a CAD Depart-
ment in 1974 to speed up CAD in the State. The department is headed by a
Secretary reporting to the Chief Minister. During the last two years, the
department has carried out' a successful CAD pilot operation in the Pochampad



- 25 -
area, where implementation methods were tested and technical staff trained.
At present, the Secretary is also Commissioner of CAD in the areas scheduled
for on-farm development.  In each of the four command areas, the Administrator
is the chief executive for planning and implementation of the program. He
has operational control of the agricultural and extension activities, the
engineering unit (survey, design and supervision of construction), and the
credit unit assisting in the flow of short- and long-term credit. The Admin-
istrator is a Generalist Officer. All units operating at the project level
would be headed by technical officers and controlled at the State government
level by the Director of Agriculture, the Registrar of Cooperative Societies
and the Superintending Engineer (Land Development), the latter being in
the Office of the Secretary, CAD (Annex 10, Chart 15670).
5.11      The organization would be suitable for executing the project works,
and would cater adequately to operational needs. The CAD management would set
cropping patterns, and control and enforce warabundi and input services
(Annex 10).
5.12      On-farm development works in the designated project areas would
be compulsory and the full cost of works would be recovered from the bene-
ficiaries.
5.13      Financing of CAD.  Financing would be available to all farmers by
CBs or LDBs (LMBs). Secured mortgages for eligible farmers would not exceed
12 years at not less than 11% interest with a grace period of approximately
two years. Some 20% of the farmers are estimated to be ineligible for ordinary
commercial loans because of defective land titles or because of overdues on
debts to local authorities, cooperatives or commercial financing institutions.
These farmers would get 12 year loans at 14% with the same grace period.
Secured LDB and CB loans would be refinanced at a rate of 75% and 80%, res-
pectively, by the ARDC. Unsecured loans for ineligible farmers would be fully
refinanced by a revolving fund administered by ARDC and financed through a 50%
contribution from GOI, and 25% each from the ARDC and GOAP. The unsecured
loans would be quaranteed by GOAP.
Agricultural Extension Services
5.14      To ensure that project benefits would be quickly realized by the
farmers, the extension service would be reorganized to operate on the lines
successfully followed in the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and West
Bengal. In the two Nagarjunasagar Project areas, the service would be headed
by a Joint Director of Agriculture (JDA); in the other two, by a Deputy
Director (DDA). Extension Districts would be headed by DDAs who would
control Extension Circles run by Assistant Directors of Agriculture (ADA).
Village Extension Workers (VEWs) would be in regular touch with "contact
farmers" and, through them, with all other farmers. The VEWs would be super-
vised by Assistant Agricultural Officers (AAOs). There would be a strict,
predetermined fortnightly visiting schedule by VEWs to farmers groups. The
objectives of the visit always would be simple, concentrating on two or
three key issues, and would be changed between visits. Routine supervision



- 26 -
would come from AAOs. Technical backing would come from Subject Matter
Specialists (SMSs) who would spend the greater part of their time in contact
with VEWs and farmers. Strong emphasis would be placed on training at all
levels and on maintaining close, continuing contacts with the research
organizations. As the extension staff at all levels would be expected to
spend far more time in the field than at present and would also be stationed
in more rural and remote places thlan is the practice now, they would be given
a project allowance over their base salaries (Annex 11).
Cost Recovery
5.15      NSP Irrigation Infrastructure.  The total sunk costs in the dam,
expressed in 1976 currency values, are approximately Rs 2.0 billion. Some
of the costs for the dam should, however, be allocated to power (para 4.09).
As there are no firm figures on the projected power output; three-quarters of
the dam costs have been tentatively allocated for the purpose of these calcula-
tions to the irrigation component. This gives an overall investment cost of
about Rs 2,600 per ac (Rs 6,552 per ha) of which Rs 700 is attributable to the
dam and Rs 1,900 to the irrigation and drainage infrastructure. The present
annual O&M costs are about Rs 12 per ac (Rs 30 per ha). After implementation
of the project they would increase to about Rs 20 per ac.
5.16      In principle, the betterment levy is the prime vehicle for recover-
ing the capital costs of irrigation projects in Andhra Pradesh. Legislation
enacted in 1969 enables GOAP to collect a levy of up to half the increase
in land values due to the project, paid in 20 annual installments, including
interest on the outstanding amount 1/. Land values in the already developed
parts of NSP have increased from about Rs 500 per ac (Rs 1,260 per ha) to more
than Rs 5,000 per ac. This would permit a levy on the order of Rs 2,000 to
2,500 per ac (Rs 5,00 to Rs 6,300) or Rs 230 to 290 per year inclusive of
interest. At present, however, the levy is nominal: Rs 5 to 10 per ac (Rs 13
to 25 per ha) per year for irrigated dry (ID) and irrigated wet (IW) lands,
respectively.
5.17      Of greater practical importance at present are the water rates that
form part of the land revenue. Their level depends on the type of irrigation
provided and the soil classification. They typically amount to Rs 20 and 30
per ac (Rs 50 to 75 per ha) for ID and IW lands, respectively. The land cess,
a local tax, is calculated as a 37% addition to the land revenue, which
brings the water charges up to about Rs 27 and Rs 41 per ac (Rs 68 to 103 per
ha) for ID and IW lands, respectively.
5.18      Certain commercial crops, such as cotton and sugarcane, are
assessed special taxes when irrigated.  These taxes typically range from
Rs 15 to Rs 25 per ac.
1/   In the law the increase is defined on a "before and after" basis.



- 27 -
5.19      Over the last couple of years, Andhra Pradesh has substantially
raised the water related charges (betterment levies, water rates, land cesses
and commercial crop rates) and they have increased from about Rs 30 per ac in
1973 to Rs 62 per ac in 1976. A bill is now pending before the AP legislature
which would substitute the betterment levy with a special tax on certain
irrigated lands. This tax, which would be paid over a ten year period, would
raise the total water charge to about Rs 110 per ac.
5.20      Government revenues would further increase through the sales tax on
agricultural products. The sales tax which averages about 4%, would generate
an additional income of about Rs 60 per ac brought under irrigation.
5.21      With the present level of taxation, GOAP would recover the full
capital cost of the irrigation and drainage infrasturcture provided under
the project, over 30 years at 3% interest, and the full 0 & M costs. With
the proposed tax on irrigated lands, the full capital costs would be re-
covered over 30 years at 5% interest. An assurance was obtained that GOAP
would, for 30 years, collect not less than the present level of water charges.
5.22      CAD Program.  Under the present arrangements, the costs for on-farm
works under the CAD Program would be financed from institutional credit while
the costs for planning and supervision would be borne by GOI and GOAP. In a
few years, this would mean a severe strain on scarce Government resources.
The farmers' annual repayment for the on-farm development loan would amount
to about Rs 100 per ac (Rs 250 per ha) in nominal terms. The analysis in
paragraph 6.11 and Annex 13 shows that the benefiting farmers could well
afford to pay substantially higher costs for CAD. Consequently, an assurance
was obtained from GOI that the participating farmers would pay a part of the
engineering overhead, presently borne by GOI and GOAP, through a 15% surcharge
on the contract cost for civil works.
5.23      At full development after completion of CAD over the whole area, the
total water charges would amount to Rs 210 per ac (Rs 519 per ha) or about 13%
of net incremental farm incomes. The proposed charges would give the following
benefit and rent recovery indices:
Pochampad              NSP Infrastructure
Tungabhadra CAD         With CAD      Without CAD
Benefit Recovery Index         8%                 13%             23%
Rent Recovery Index           14%                 22%             46%



- 28 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01      Agricultural production increases accrue from extending the irriga-
tion network in the Nagarjunasagar Project area and from command area develop-
ment in all four sub-areas. The CAD would increase water use efficiency below
the pipe outlet from about 45% to 65%, enabling the whole command to be cropped
according to the design cropping pattern and enabling farmers effectively to
control water in the field, thereby achieving higher yields (Annex 12). The
strengthened and reorganized extension services would assist in rapidly
achieving this objective.
6.02      Production increases after ultimate development are detailed in
Annex 12. They show the expected yield increases and the switch that will
be possible in Nagarjunasagar from low to high unit value crops due to irri-
gation. Data pertaining to the major crops over the total project area are
summarized below:
Expected Annual Production Changes at Full Development
('000 tons)
Due to Irrigation & CAD              Due to CAD only
NSP Left Bank   NSP Right Bank    Pochampad    Tungabhadra
W /     W /2    W /      W /2      W /1  W /2   W L    W /2
Rice           660     643      360    616        119   176      65      96
Cotton           -      29       46    103          -      -     21      40
Groundnuts      54     164       46    119          1      2     11      20
Maize            -      -         -      -         52   122       -       -
Sorghum         52     214       35    539         13    89       2      16
/1   W = without project
/2   W = with project
Market Prospects
6.03      India is short of foodgrains, oilseed and fiber crops and there
would be no difficulty in marketing the increased agricultural production of
the project.



- 29 -
However, organizational problems in quickly purchasing the farmers' surplus
production may arise due mainly to Government regulations restricting the
movement of foodgrains between surplus and deficient areas, within or outside
the State. The principal institutional buyer, the Food Corporation of India
(FCI) does not always buy all the rice that farmers wish to sell and only
rarely do they buy sorghum, groundnuts and millets. Given the present res-
trictions on the grain trade,    it is important that FCI become a genuine
and unequivocal buyer of last resort and that farmers are paid without delay.
6.04      The cotton ginning industry over the last years has been able to
organize the purchase and processing of the considerable increase in pro-
duction that took place as a result of irrigation. No marketing problems
are expected for the long staple cotton lint to be produced under the
project.
Processing and Storage
6.05      Present and projected rice processing facilities in the State
are adequate to cope with expected production increases. The processing
facilities for other food crops, and for cotton ginning, are also adequate
and likely to grow with demand.
6.06      Warehousing space is in short supply in years of high production.
The investment program for the Central Warehousing Corporation and the State
Warehousing Corporation, drawn up in agreement with GOI and GOAP, must be
implemented to provide additional storage facilities. At present, no organ-
ization effectively advises farmers on how to ensure the safe storage of their
produce before disposal. Under the project, the technical know-how available
under GOI's Save Grain Campaign would be more effectively communicated to the
farmers by the extension service. Officers of the State Warehousing Corpo-
ration and the Save Grain Campaign would act as SMSs to the extension service
in the appropriate seasons.
Prices of Agricultural Products
6.07      Economic prices for internationally traded agricultural inputs
and outputs are derived from the Bank's projected 1985 world market prices
in 1976 constant prices with appropriate adjustments for transportation
and grade. For most of the agricultural products relevant to this project, a
decline from recent shortage-related price levels is expected. The domestic
prices, which are used for the farm budget analyses, are projected to decrease
less markedly than the world market prices. For most of the commodities, the
result is a fairly close correspondence between the Indian and the world
market price.
6.08      Many of these agricultural products are either not traded interna-
tionally or only to a limited degree. There is a high degree of substitution
between internationally traded foodgrains and those that are not traded;
increased production of the latter tend to decrease the imports of traded
foodgrains. The domestic prices for the non-traded foodgrains (for example,
millets) reflect the substitution effect, relative production costs and
consumer preferences. Consequently, it has been assumed that the ratio



- 30 -
between the market price and the economic price for rice also applies to
non-traded goods. The prices of all crops as well as farm inputs are given in
Annex 14, Appendix 1.
Farm Incomes and Repayment Capacity
6.09      Income to farm households includes the net value of crops produced
on the farm, and off-farm earnings. At present, an average sized family
needs approximately 2.0 ha of unirrigated land or 1.0 ha of irrigated land to
fulfill its basic subsistence needs.  Consequently, most small farmers
must have substantial off-farm earnings. Few data on off-farm income exist
and, thus, only the value of crop production has been included as income in
this analysis.
6.10      Present and projected future farm budgets in NSP have been analyzed
on the basis of four representative farm sizes 1.0 ha, 3.0 ha, 5.0 ha and
10.0. (Farm size distributions for the project areas are presented in Annex
13, Table 9.)   The net income from farming, including the imputed value of
produce consumed on the farm (in 1976 terms) are:
New Areas to be Irrigated
Present Areas                   Under Project
With on-farm
No on-farm        development and
Farm Size (ha) Irrigated (Rs) Unirrigated (Rs) development (Rs) extension (Rs)
(1)               (2)             (3)               (4)                 (5)
1.0              3,000          1,300             2,700                5,700
3.0              8,200          3,800             7,900               16,200
5.0             12,700          6,000            12,500               26,200
10.0             23,400         10,900            22,800               50,700
In the derivation of farm incomes, cash payments for hired labor and inputs
have been charged as production costs (Annex 13). The "present" budgets are
based on the present level of water charges.   The "future with project"
budgets are based on the assumption that the water and commercial crop rates
are kept on their present levels while the betterment levy has been replaced
by the proposed special tax on irrigated lands (para 5.19). It is further
assumed that the farmers would pay the full cost for on-farm development. The
estimates for the 3.0 ha farm are based on a cropping pattern that reflects
the average for the Nagarjunasagar command areas. A slightly higher cropping
intensity is assumed for the 1.0 ha farm and slightly lower intensities for
the 5.0 ha and 10.0 ha holdings. It is further assumed on the basis of
presently available data that the smaller farms would be more foodgrain-oriented
and the larger farms more oriented towards cash crops such as chillies,
groundnuts and cotton. In the "future" farm budgets, it has been assumed that
the extension services would have limited impact on the yields in those areas
where the CAD Program has not been implemented.



- 31 -
6.11      In approximate terms, the provision of irrigation water would double
the net farm incomes and the combined effects of CAD and extension would
result in a further doubling. The proposed water charges correspond to the
following percentages of incremental net farm incomes:
CAD and extension
Irrigation         Irrigation plus CAD          only (%)
Farm Size (ha)   Infrastructure (%)   and extension (%)    Pochampad, Tungabhadra
1.0                   20                 11                        7
3.0                   22                  12                       8
5.0                   24                  13                       8
10.0                   24                  13                       9
Percent of Project
Rent Collected
(average)                  46                  22                       14
6.12      Thus the farmers who would be covered by the CAD Program should be in
a position to pay the proposed charges. The water charges would make up a
much larger proportion of the net incremental incomes for farmers who would
not be included in the CAD Program. However, they would still be left with
sufficient incentive to develop their land.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      Investments in irrigation infrastructure without CAD and extension
have long gestation periods and give relatively low returns. However, such
investments create the potential for subsequent CAD investments. In turn,
CAD investment sets the stage for effective extension. This is because dis-
semination of new farm technologies in a large measure depends on the degree
of water control at the farm level. With irregular irrigation, farmers prefer
traditional varieties which stand up well to intermittent irrigation supplies
and imperfect drainage conditions. The introduction of improved water dis-
tribution and drainage through CAD facilitates the spread of new varieties and
farming practices promoted by extension.
7.02      The major components of the proposed project -- irrigation infra-
structure, on-farm development and agricultural extension services -- are,
consequently, interdependent, and the benefits from any one of the com-
ponents depend on whether the others are implemented. Thus, irrigation,
CAD and extension have to be evaluated as a package. However, since each
component of the package must be justified in its own right, the benefits
and costs associated with each of the components have, to the extent possible,
also been analyzed separately (see para. 7.19).



- 32 -
Extension Services
7.03      Two major factors determine the benefits of extension:  (i) the
average yield increase for farmers who follow extension advice, and (ii) the
number of farmers who adopt improved techniques. While it is difficult to
forecast accurately the impact of the proposed extension program, programs
of this type have recently been introduced in Bank Group-assisted projects in
Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan with remarkable success. The experience so far
indicates that after two years some 20% to 30% of the farmers are "followers"
and that their yields have increased some 10% to 20%. The impact of the
extension program is greater in those areas that are covered by CAD. When the
extension program is fully implemented by 1981, about 20% of the command areas
would have been developed under the CAD Program. Because of longer exposure
to the extension service, it has been assumed that about 30% of the farmers
within the CAD area would be followers with yield increases of some 20% to
30%. No production increases outside the CAD area have been assumed. On the
average for the whole command area, this would increase the value of production
by Rs 40 to Rs 60 per ha. The annual cost for the extension services is about
Rs 8 per ha. Consequently, the benefit cost ratio for the extension program
is highly favorable.
Command Area Development
7.04      On-farm development would result in higher yields and increased
irrigation efficiencies below the pipe outlet. The higher yields are direct-
ly reflected in increased incomes for the farmers. The higher irrigation
efficiencies would lead to substantial external benefits, the accrual of which
depends on water allocation decisions.
7.05      Economic evaluation of CAD is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Due to the present low level of water management
resulting in insufficient irrigation of the crops,
it is estimated that the average yield would increase
some 50% due to CAD and extension services.
(b)  The CAD Program would increase farm irrigation
efficiencies from about 45% to 65% for ID lands.
Net irrigation requirements for ID crops vary from about
100 mm for some kharif zrops to about 800 mm for some
rabi crops. For the NSP design cropping patterns, the
average would be about 370 mm. The CAD Program would
thus result in annual water savings of about 2,500 m3 per ha.
(c)  The water saved would be used to increase the irrigation in-
tensity within the command area, each cubic meter resulting
in a production increase on the order of Rs 0.2 to 0.3 (Annex
14).



The above assumptions are based on experience from similar projects. The
proposed monitoring studies would be designed to ascertain to what extent
these benefits materialize.
7.06      Given the above assumptions, the economic rate of return of the
CAD and extension programs, treated as a package, is about 45%.
Nagarjunasagar Irrigation Infrastructure
7.07      Project Concept.  The NSP was initially designed to provide sup-
plementary irrigation only during the kharif season. The project has an
extremely long gestation period and now, 20 years after the start of con-
struction, only about 1 M ac out of a potential 2.15 M ac have been brought
under irrigation. Due to the slow implementation and to low water utiliza-
tion upstream in the Krishna Basin, surplus water has been available to
the already commanded areas, much of which has been utilized to grow rice
in the rabi seasons.   This has resulted in overall cropping intensities
that are substantially higher than their design values.
7.08      Water in the Krishna River is gradually being utilized and the
water available to NSP will ultimately come down to the 264 TMC awarded by
the Krishna Water Tribunal. However, for the next two decades, it is esti-
mated that some 180 to 200 TMC would be available to each of the main canals.
Even with the excess water, the extension of the command areas would require
a decrease of the water supply to the already developed areas (Annex 5).
7.09      The NSP plans were based on two objectives:  to increase agricul-
tural production, and to spread the benefits of irrigation to as many farmers
as possible. An expansion of the two command areas would result in higher
investment and 0 & M costs and also in increased losses in the conveyance
system. Consequently, there is a measure of trade-off between economic
efficiency and distributional considerations.
7.10      In order to assist GOI and State authorities in reaching a cor-
rect decision about water allocation, a computer program was developed by
Bank staff. For a given size of the command area and a given overall water
allocation to the project, this program determines the optimum water use
within the command area. It also can be used to analyze the economic
impact of extending the irrigation system.   The optimum size a system depends
on the water quantities available at the head of the canal and estimated
conveyance and field efficiencies. The analysis was based on estimated
present conveyance and operational efficiencies and on projected field water
requirements after full CAD. Reflecting the uncertainty of these estimates,
an upper and a lower limit of field water requirements have been used.
Furthermore, two different assumptions on the temporary availability of water
for each canal have been tested: 180 TMC and 200 TMC.
7.11      The analysis shows that total agricultural production increases
with the command area. However, the net benefits from additional areas
brought under irrigation become smaller and smaller (see Annex 14, Figures 1
and 2). The results of the analysis indicate that:



- 34 -
(a) at an allocation of 180 TMC, and using the more conservative
estimates of field water requirements (Bank Group values), the
economically optimum size of the Left Bank command corresponds
approximately to the GOAP project plan;
(b) at an allocation of 18'D TMC, and using again the more con-
servative estimates, tnle economically optimum size of
the Right Bank command area is about 1.0 M ac instead
of the proposed 1.17 M ac, and
(c)  at an allocation of 200 TMC, and again using the more
conservative estimates, the optimum size corresponds
to the proposed size for the Right Bank area. The same
holds good for the less conservative field water require-
ments (GOI values) and an allocation of 180 TMC.
7.12      Given GOI and GOAP development objectives, however, social con-
siderations necessarily play a part in water allocation decisions. To
evaluate the impact of such considerations on project design, income distri-
butional weights were introduced in the objective function of the computer
program. Three types of income effects were identified and quantified:
changes in farm incomes; changes in the incomes of agricultural laborers, and
indirect employment effects in tne command areas. The income distributional
weights were chosen in such a way that a 10% income increase has the same
social value for all groups. (Thlese weights are broadly in line with studies
carried out by the Indian Planning Commission.)
7.13      Since the farmers in the already developed parts of the command
areas have fairly high incomes, reductions are given lower weight than in-
creases for the farmers in the new areas. The social costs of cutting down
the water allocation in the old areas are thus lower than the social benefits
of providing irrigation to new areas. Consequently using both economic and
social criteria, a water allocation of 180 TMC and the more conservative
estimates of field irrigation requirements, the optimum size of the Right Bank
command area would be larger than what has been proposed by GOAP. Thus, when
both efficiency and income distributional objectives are taken into account,
GOAP's proposal as to the size of the command areas is justified.
7.14      Nagarjunasagar Investment Program.  So far about US$500 million 1/
have been invested in NSP. The proposed project would complete the road and
irrigation infrastructure, set up an agricutlural extension program, and
initiate a CAD program, which ultimately would cover the whole command area.
The economic rate of return on all previous and planned investments in NSP
is estimated at 15%.
1/   1976 currency value.



- 35 -
7.15      Due to the sunk costs in the dam, the slow implementation of the
canal infrastructure and the lack of CAD in the already developed areas,
the economic returns from previous investments have been low. However, the
base for high yielding CAD investments has been created and the economic
rate of return for planned investments (canal extensions, drainage, road
and CAD included in the proposed project and the future completion of the
CAD program) would be 20% to 25%.
7.16      Left and Right Bank Canal Extensions.  Economic evaluation of most
irrigation projects does not require costing of water. However, for the parts
to be financed, water cannot be assumed to be a free good. A major element in
the economic analysis is, therefore, an estimate of the opportunity cost of
water. If water would be freely available and the new areas could be irrigated
without any reduction in cropping intensities and yields in other areas, the
economic rate of return for the Left Bank extension would be about 25%.
However, the need to reduce water allocations to already irrigated areas of
the Left Bank reduces the rate of return to between 10% and 13%. (The opportun-
ity cost of water and thus the rate of return is highly sensitive to irrigation
efficiencies. The range quoted for the rate of return reflects this uncertainty.)
The economic rate of return for the Right Bank extension is 9% to 12%.
7.17      Social Rates of Return.  The GOAP's plans for NSP are partly based
on distributional objectives and the project would have a substantial impact
on the income distribution in the area. Because of this and in order to
give an extra dimension to the economic analysis, income distribution weights
have been systematically introduced in the analysis (based on the assumptions
discussed in para. 7.12). The resulting social rates of return are 12% to
15% and 11% to 14% for the Left and Right Bank Canals, respectively.
7.18      Conclusion.  The proposed scope of the project reflects GOAP's in-
tention to maximize agricultural production from the water allocated and
the objective to distribute production and employment benefits as widely as
possible. The canal extensions give relatively low returns but create a
potential for high yielding CAD investments and for effective agricultural
extension. When completed, the project will have tripled agricultural pro-
duction and give substantial direct and indirect employment effects.



- 36 -
Summary of Economic Rates of Return
7.19      The economic rates of return for the components of the proposed
project are:
CAD Program                                          Rates of Return
-- Without improved extension services                28%
-- With improved extension services                   45%
NSP Irrigation Infrastructure
-- The whole of NSP, with CAD and extension
services, including sunk costs                     15%
-- LBC, infrastructure, CAD and extension
in new areas                                   10-13%
-- LBC, with CAD and agricultural extension        20-25%
in the whole command area
-- RBC, infrastructure, CAD and                    9-12%
extension in new areas
-- RBC, with CAD and agricultural extension        20-25%
in the whole command area
Risk and Uncertainty
7.20      Command Area Development.  Given the estimated high rate of
return and the experience gained from the pilot operation in the
Pochampad area, the investment risk associated with the CAD component is
limited.
7.21      NSP Irrigation Infrastructure.  The risk associated with the NSP
canal extensions stems from the uncertainty regarding:
(i)  Future prices and yields.  A combination of a 10%
increase in investment costs and a 25% reduction
of the projected benefits would decrease the estimated
rates of return approximately 2.5 percentage points.
Consequently, the estimated rates of return are not
very sensitive to changes in assumed future prices
and yields.



- 37 -
(ii) Future water supply. If the upstream development in
the Krishna Basin would be more rapid than projected
(para. 4.08), there would be a substantial scope for
reducing water use in NSP, through a shift from IW
to ID crops, without reducing the economic benefits
from the project (Annex 13, para 4). Furthermore, the
water allocation to NSP is based on flows that would be
exceeded three years out of four. By utilizing a part
of the substantial live storage in the Srisailam and
Nagarj unasagar dams to store water from one year to ano-
ther, GOAP would be able to increase the effective
supply to NSP. Given the assurances in paragraph 4.09,
it is unlikely that a more rapid upstream development
of NSP would have any substantial effect on the pro-
jected economic benefits.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement on the following points has been reached with GOI:
(a)  the State of Andhra Pradesh would be free to use the
excess water flowing in the Krishna River, without
however, acquiring any permanent rights to this
flow (para. 4.09);
(b)  the proceeds of the loan, except disbursements for
on-farm development and for the project preparation and
evaluation group would be made available to GOAP (para.
4.33);
(c)  the GOI would cause GOAP to make arrangements in its
annual development plans for the provision of funds
required for the implementation of the project in accord-
ance with the implementation schedule (para. 4.33); and
(d)  the participating farmers would pay a part of the
engineering overhead, presently borne by GOI and
GOAP, through a 15% surcharge on the contract cost
for CAD civil works (para. 5.22).
8.02      Agreements have been reached with GOAP that:
(a)  it would make available from the flow of the Krishna
River at the dam site additional water over and above
the 264 TMC allocated to NSP as may be required to
irrigate according to the cropping patterns agreed
between GOAP and the Bank. The additional water would be
required until such time as overall water efficiencies
improve sufficiently to make it unnecessary (para. 4.09);



- 38 -
(b) the reservoir operation program for power production
at Nagarjunasagar Dam and the upstream Srisailam Dam
(presently under construction) would be fully coordinated
with the irrigation needs of NSP (para. 4.09);
(c) accounts and financial statements of the PWD and CAD
departments would be submitted to the Bank within nine
months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.39);
(d) any borrow pits excavat:ed in the course of construction
under the project will, as soon as is practible, be
drained to remove or minimize any chances of mosquitoes
breeding in stagnant water in such pits (para. 4.42);
(e)  an annual operation and maintenance budget would be pro-
vided for adequate maintenance of NSP irrigation and
drainage infrastructure works and for operational require-
ments and that adequate, measures would be taken to operate
and maintain all irrigation and drainage works in the pipe
commands (para. 5.06);
(f) that it shall maintain and repair, or cause to be maintained
and repaired, all roads included in the project, in
accordance with sound engineering practices (para. 5.09);
and
(g) it would maintain, for a period of 30 years, at least the
present level of water charges (para. 5.21);
8.03      Assurances were obtained from GOI and GOAP that:
each would take the measures as it considers necessary to
minimize all hazards of malaria and other water-related
diseases in the project area (para. 4.42).
8.04      An agreement has been obtained from ARDC that:
it would require the lending banks participating in the project to
maintain separate accounts for project lending and ensure that the
annual audited accounts for such banks would be submitted to the
Bank within four months from the end of its fiscal year, together
with a statement of project lending for such banks certified by ARDC
(para. 4.40).
8.05      Conditions of disbursement for the CAD component would be that:
(a) evidence satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished showing
that GOAP can at its option, carry out on-farm development
works as it considers necessary in the project area and recover
the cost of such works from the farmers concerned (para. 4.34)



- 39 -
(b) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank
has been executed between GOI and ARDC (para. 4.34); and
(c) the ARDC has set up a revolving fund for financing
loans to farmers ineligible for ordinary bank credit
(para 4.34).
8.06      With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a
loan of US$145 million under standard Third Window terms. The Borrower would
be India.
April 20, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CCMPOSITE PROJECT
Climatic Data, Project Areas
Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   Ma   Jun   Jul   A        Sep   Oct   Nov   Doc  Total
Nagarjunasagar Project Area
Average Rainfall (mm)
Khammam (1941-1960)                        1      7    10    25    27   126   260   185   165   107    34       4    9"'1
Ainaravati (1967-1974)                      2     3    14    13    74   lo   193   167   113    97    48    14    838
Rentachintala (1931-1960)                   1    10     6    20    41    86   116   115   146   124    41    13    719
Average of 3 Stations                   1   -7    IO           - 7   101   190   m3 I    M           -:109 
Average Monthly Pan Evaporation (mm)
Khammam (Estimated)                      191   220   325   324   341   266   199   175   165   168   156   168  2,698
Amaravati (observed)                      133   169   236   269   346   289   219   191   155   151   124   116  2,398
Rentachintala (Estimated)                188   218   320   351   357   281   233   279   187   173   153   155  2 895
Average of 3 Stations         1/      171  - 0         2       3     2 F    2 m  D 27   1                         93'4
Evaporation data from Report 146         160   190   280   285   355   285   210   180   170   165   160   160  2,600
Hyderabad'-/
Number of rainy days                         G     1     1     2     3      7    11    10    10      5     2     0      52
Relative humidity (%)
0830 hours                               79    64    54    51    50    71    83    82    82    73    68    71        69
1730 hours                               36    35    30    31    33    54    69    70    71    58    48    42
Wind velocity (km/hr)                        8     9    10    11    12    24    22    18    13       9     8      7     13
Air temperatures (C)
Mean maximum                            28.6  31.2  34.8  36.9  38.7  34.1  29.8  29.5  29.7  30.3  28.7  27.8
Mean minimum                            14.6  16.7  20.0  23.7  26.2  24.1  22.3  22.1  21.6  19.8  16.0  13.4
Extreme maximum                         35.0  37.2  42.2  43.3  44.4  43.9  37.2  36.1  36.1  36.7  33.9  33.3
Extreme minimum                         10 7   8.9  13.2  16.1  19.4  17.8  19.4  19.4  17.8  12.2   7.8   7.2
I/ Interpolated from isopleth i mps of recorded Class A Pan Evaporation in India, Scientific Report 146
2/ Observation period 1931 to 1960. Hyderabad is centrally located between the project CAD area.
Data shown are generally representative of the four areas.
o-



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NSP Irrigation and Drainage Works
Engineering Design Criteria and Procedures
1.        The canal and structure designs for the Nagarjunasagar Project
follow established practices and irrigation designs which have been used
in India for many years. Canal alignments are located in the field and
earth trial pits (test pits) are excavated at intervals of 110 ft.
Detailed designs are prepared for the canals and all major structures
prior to tendering for construction. Designs for the canal prism are
sound and canal embankments are wide enough to contain a 4:1 seepage line
from the canal water surface to natural ground. Compacted earth cutoffs
under the embankments are provided where required. The depth and size
of the cutoffs are related to the height of fill. Lining is provided
in rock reaches.  Drains are provided to relieve hydrostatic pressure
from groundwater on the back side of the lining. Designs of structures
are principally for masonry construction and appear to be more than ample.
Reinforced concrete is used only for the span portions of structures.
Cross drainage waterways are designed for the 100-year frequency flood
and appear ample for the natural drainage channels that exist at the sites.
Flood flows are computed by criteria established by the Central Indian
Government. Computed stream scour depths are used to set foundation
depths. Hydraulic computations for the structure designs are based on
universally accepted principles. Water flow curves are developed from
hydraulic laboratory model testing and checked by current meters in the
prototype.  Off-take structures are designed to deliver the required flow
to a branch canal at one half design flow depth in the main canal, which is
approximately 0.7 of the depth for the design flow. Regulators were origin-
ally spaced at about 20-mi intervals, but design revisions have resulted
in roughly a 10-mi spacing. The main canal would provide adequate head for
water deliveries as long as the canal flow is about half capacity or greater.
At smaller flows there may be a deficiency in ability to deliver flow to
take-offs located just down stream from a regulator. A thorough hydraulic
design review of the entire distribution system is being made to correct
design delivery deficiencies.
System Improvements
2.        Assumptions on conveyance efficiencies and operational losses were
the key criteria used to size the project. The criteria used by GOI are
considered by the Bank to be too optimistic, since they assume a high level
-41



ANNEX 2
Page 2
of water use discipline and system losses commensurate with a design
which provides complete operational flexibility. High conveyance and
operational efficiencies, however, can be obtained only with projects
planned to respond quickly to changing weather conditions and resulting
fluctuations in water demand. The NSP system has been planned and designed
without this flexibility. To achieve the required flexibility it would
require several additional strategically located regulatory storage reser-
voirs, additional flow regulators in canals and distributors to provide
necessary head requirements for water deliveries during minimal canal
flow periods, the use of automatic control gates for major distributors,
a telecommunication system for efficient operation of the irrigation
system, and, to reduce seepage losses, lining of canals in reaches where
seepage losses are unacceptably high.  Some minor modifications would be
made in the design of the irrigation system under the Bank project to
improve operational control. The modifications would include the provision
of additional regulators at five locations in the Right and Left Main Canals
and design changes for drop structures on the branch canals and major and
minor distributors to control flow adequately and assure water deliveries
from all canal offtakes. Major improvements in the proposed systems however,
must be postponed until the future modernization project is implemented.
Following the implementation of the modernization project, conveyance and
operational efficiencies are expected to reduce water quantities required
for the design cropping pattern by 15% to 20%.
Design Completion Schedule
3.        Surveys and test pit work have been completed or are underway for
the 29 mi of main canal to be included in the Bank project on the Right
Bank. Canal designs and estimates for all reaches of the canal are also
underway and are scheduled for completion in 1976. The preparation of
canal specifications for all reaches would be completed in 1977. Surveys
and locations work for the 59 main canal structures to be included in the
Bank project are either completed or are underway. Designs and estimates
and the preparation of specifications for bridges, regulators, and off-
take sluices are underway, and this work would be completed for all
remaining structures by early 1978. Engineering surveys, designs and
estimates for the branch canals and irrigation distribution systems in
Irrigation Blocks 15 through 18 would be completed by early 1977 and for
Blocks 19 through 22 by early 1978. The work of preparing designs and
estimates for the distribution systems generally would keep pace with
engineering work for associated reaches of the main canal.
4.        As of June 1976, the first 103 mi of the Left Main Canal had
been completed and construction of the remaining 8 mi was underway. Also,
work had been initiated on the 21st Main Branch Canal (an extension of the
42



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Left Main Canal) from mi 0 to mi 10/6. The Bank project would include
completion of the 21st Main Branch Canal from mi 10/6 to its terminus at
mi 76 and construction of the irrigation and drainage systems in Irrigation
Blocks 20 and 21/1 to 21/11. Surveys, designs and estimates of the 21st
Main Branch Canal have been completed to mile 47/3 (about 37 mi) and would
be initiated for the remaining 29 mi in late 1976. Surveys for all canal
structures to mile 33 have been completed and designs and estimates for most
of these structures are completed or are underway. Surveys of remaining
structures would be initiated in late 1976 and designs and estimates would
be completed by 1978. Surveys of the irrigation distribution systems in
Blocks 20 and 21 have been completed and designs and estimates for the
system in Block 20 have been completed. Designs and estimates for Blocks
21/1 to 21/5 and part of Block 21/6 are scheduled for completion by January
1977 and for the remainder of Block 21/6 and.Blocks 21/7 to 21/11 by January
1978. Drainage requirements would be identified and the drainage system
provided during project development as requirements become known.
Construction Methods
5.        The construction of irrigation projects in India is principally
performed by manual labor. On-going construction practices in the project
area make use of mechanical excavating, hauling and compacting equipment
to construct high canal embankments for major aqueducts at valley crossings
and for canal excavation in rock for deep cuts in excess of about 10 m.
Labor-intensive construction methods for general construction would be used
for all project construction. Sheepsfoot and road rollers would be used
for canal embankment compaction and for the compaction of roads in accordance
with on-going practices. (The road rollers are not as effective as sheeps-
foot rollers for canal embankment compaction, since they compact only the
top few inches of each lift and produce laminated embankments which are
conducive to leakage). The disposal of excavation wastes in cut areas would
be done in an orderly manner and borrow areas for embankment would be dressed
to improve the appearance of canal construction. Canal embankments below
design water surface would be wetted prior to compaction. Canal structures,
except for span portions, would be constructed of masonry and the stones would
be hand quarried from nearby quartzite deposits, which underlie most of the
project area. The extensive use of masonry for structures would provide
economical construction. Coarse aggregate for reinforced concrete would be
produced by manual labor from excavated rock and from spall resulting from
shaping blocks. Safety precautions would be followed on construction sites to
reduce the present high accident and injury rates for construction work.
Irrigation and Drainage Works to be Provided Under the Project
6.        The irrigation and drainage works to be provided under the project
are listed in Table 1.
April 1976
.43



ANNEX 2
Table I1
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURAL WORKS
NSP Irrigation and Drainage Works
Right Bank Irrigation Syst.em
Right Canal Earthwork (mi)                                    30
(Mile 86/0 to 88/0, 94/0 to 99/6, 100/3 to 105/6,
106/5 to 107/7, 108/3 to 121/7, & 124/0 to 126/0)
Right Canal Structures to Mile 110/0 (No.)                   26
Bridges (Mile 87/3, 90/5,94/0, 95/0,98/0, 104/1
105/7, 107/6) (8)
Regulators (Mile 48/o, 101/7, 110/0) (3)
Off-Take Sluices (15)
Right Canal Structures (Mile 110 to 126) (No)                33
Bridges                                      (8)
Undertunnels                                 (12)
Off-Takes                                    (10)
Superpassage (Mile 124)                      (1)
Regulators  ( Mile 118/0 and 126)            (2)
Pamidipadu Branch Cmnal ( 750 cfs) (mi)                       7
Darsi Branch Canal (2,930 cfs) (mi)                          17
Ongole Branch Cmnal (1780 cfs) (mi)                          33
Major and Minor C rals in Blocs 15 to 22(mi)                900
0 to 10 cfs capacity (450 mi)
10 to 50 cfs   "       (260 mi)
50 to 100 cfs          ( 50 mi)
100 to 500 cfs  "       (140 mi)
Left Bank Irrigation System
Left Main Branch Canal Earthwork (mile 10/6 to 76) (mi)    65
Left Main Branch Canal Structures (No)                      140
Aqueducts                                  (8)
Under Tunnels                             (52)
Siphons                                    (3)
Superpassages                              (3)
Bridges                                   (28)
Regulators (M 8/6,19/4,43/5 and 76/o)    (4)
Off-Takes and Sluices (Turnouts)          (42)
Left Canal Structures                                         2
Regulators (M 11/0 & M 34/0)                                  -44-



ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 2
Bonakal Branch Canal (860 cfs) (mi)                                17
Madhira Br,anch Canal (1010 cfs) (mi)                              15
Nuzividu & Mylavaram Branch Canal (1440 cfs) (mi)                  34
Major & Minor Canals in Blocks 20 & 21/1 to 21/11 (mi)            620
0 to 10  cfs capacity  (125 mi)
10 to 50  cfs   it        (210 mi)
50 to 100 cfs    "        (120 mi)
100 to 500 cis    "        (165 mi)
Drainage System (mi)
Right Bank - Blocks 15 to 22
Natural Drains Improved                                    650+
Intermediate Drains (from chak to Natural Drains)         1600+
Left Bank - Blocks 20 and 21/1 to 21/11
Natural Drains Improved                                    950
Intermediate Drains (from chak to Natural Drains)         2350+
-45



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NSP Road Program
1.        The project area covers some 17,000 km2 between the Left and Right
Bank Canals. The area is well served with arterial road and rail routes lead-
ing to India's principal ports and cities but lacks an adequate feeder road net-
work. The GOAP recognizes the need to improve access to farms in the command
area.
T. PRESENT POSITION
Existing Road Network
2.        For the most part, the terrain in the command area is flat with
slopes between 1% to 3%; some areas are slightly undulating, particularly in
Blocks R13-20. Soils vary from silty grey/black clays, exhibiting typical
black cotton soil swelling and shrinking characteristics, to shallow red
sandy loams, overlaying rock or murrum 1/; the black cotton soil, which is said
to cover about one-third of the area, tends to occupy the lower lands but pock-
ets of it are found everywhere.  Rock out-crops are also widespread throughout
the area and are sometimes of considerable size.  Thus, there is an ample supply
of rock for road stone and masonry work throughout the area; murrum is also
readily available within reasonable haulage distances, for sub-base and
shoulder construction, though this material is variable in quality.
3.        The barrage at Vijayawada carries National Highway (NH) 5 across
the Krishna River at the eastern end of the project area. This highway links
Madras (some 400 km to the south) with Calcutta (about 1,200 km to the north-
east) and passes through Blocks R22, Rul and R10 on the Right Bank and Block
L21 on the Left Bank. National Highway 9 runs in a northwesterly direction
from Vijayawada, through Blocks L21, L16, L14 and L13 on the Left Bank to
Hyderabad (about 250 km distant) and thence to Bombay (a further distance of
some 650 km). Hyderabad is also situated on NH7 which links Bangalore (about
1/   The term "murrum" is used locally to describe decomposed laterite or
other firm gravel soils suitable for road construction purposes.
46



ANNEX 3
Page 2
500 km to the south) with Delhi (almost 1,400 km to the north). Main line
railways follow the same general alignments through the project area as NH5
and NH9.
4.        National highways within the project area have two-lane black
top pavements, wide shoulders, are generally in good condition and are being
steadily upgraded by increasing the pavement thickness and improving the
alignment. Over 100 km of NH9 to Hyderabad has only a 3.8 m single lane black
top pavement but formation and structures are generally constructed to full
two-lane widths and eventually this section will be upgraded.
5.        The NSP area is also served by a network of State Highways (SH),
Major District Roads (MDR) and Other District Roads (ODR). Most of the SHs
have 3.8 m single lane, black top pavements on formations of at least 7m
width; some sections have been widened to two lanes. The MDRs are built to
much the same standard but may have only waterbound macadam (WBM) pavements,
while ODRs may be of earth or WBM construction. For the most part, SH and MDR
alignments are satisfactory. However, due to lack of maintenance and inade-
quate drainage, considerable deterioration has taken place in many sections.
The two factors considered to be the root cause of most of the failures
observed are high shoulders and undrained road-side borrow pits, both of
which prevent the speedy dispersal of surface water. The extent of the
existing R & B network in the NSP area is approximately:
Left Bank                                 Right Bank
Blocks LI to L21/6        534 km             Blocks  RI  to 21  809 km
Blocks L21/7 to 21/11    244 km              Block   R22          112 km
Total                778 km                        Total    921 km
6.        Many of the Zilla Parishad (ZP) and Samithi roads are little more
than dry weather tracks and alignments are often poor; in some cases earth-
works have been started but never completed. Erosion over the years has
reduced road surface levels to below the surrounding ground level in many
sections and drainage is generally inadequate; every village constitutes a
major bottleneck as by-passes have not been provided and the streets are
invariably narrow and tortuous. Due to an absence of funds, almost no
maintenance has been carried out on most of these roads for many years. In
constrast, it should be noted that a few sections of WBM road (said to have
been built by ZP more than ten years ago), were found to be in excellent
condition and others in good condition. The Irrigation Department working
on the NSP has also been engaged on construction of command area roads, many
of which follow canal banks which are generally too narrow for road embank-
ments. Standards of engineering and construction have generally been in-
adequate. No proper maintenance has been carried out. Apart from the com-
pletion of on-going contracts, this program is being discontinued.
47



ANNEX 3
Page 3
7.        The R & B have six divisions in the project area; they are only re-
sponsible for R & B roads 1/. Command area roads are the responsibility of
the Irrigation Department; various ZP Councils and Samithi Councils are re-
spectively responsible for some District roads and village roads. These
councils have their own roads and buildings departments organized on a small
.scale but on similar lines to their PWD counterparts 2/
8.        The preparation of the original road master plan for the project was
undertaken by the Irrigation Department. It was ill-prepared, overly ambitious
and would have created an impossibly large maintenance commitment. After the
appointment of the R & B as executing agency for command area roads, new
proposals were prepared jointly by CAD and R & B which were acceptable to GOI,
GOAP and to the Bank; these proposals form the basis of the NSP road project.
II. NSP ROAD PROJECT
Project Content and Cost
9.        The project would provide a command area road network covering the
entire NSP area, i.e. Blocks Li to L21/11 on the Left Bank and Blocks RI to
R22 on the Right Bank. The layout has been designed to provide all-weather
access from the State network of main roads to a point not more than 4 km
distant from almost every village and field in the command area 3/. Provision
is made for a five year program comprising:
(i) the rehabilitation of 630 km of existing NSP waterbound
macadam roads;
(ii) improvements to 415 km of existing earth roads to
waterbound macadam standard;
(iii) the construction of 530 km of new waterbound macadam
roads;
1/   The National Highways are also maintained by the R & B but come under
the jurisdiction of a separate section with its own Chief Engineer,
staff and equipment.
2/   The State is divided into some 20 Districts, each of which is sub-
divided into a number of taluks. The ZP Councils are elected at Dis-
trict or taluk level while Samithi Councils represent groups of about
15 villages, each of which elects one member to the Samithi Council.
3/   The GOI norm for the provision of roads in areas of rural development
is that the network should extend to within a distance of 4 km of
every village with a population of 1,500 or more persons.
48-



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(iv) the setting up of a new Circle within the R & B to
undertake the survey, detailed design and supervision
of items (i) to (iii) and the operating costs of this
organization throughout the project period, and
(v) the supply of road construction and ancillary equipment
for the project.
Tables 1 and 2 summarize the land, commandable and localized areas for the
Left and Right Banks, respectively, and also list the lengths of road to be
provided in each Block. Particulars of each section of road to be included
in the project are given in Table 3-A for the Left Bank and in Table 3-B for
the Right Bank. (Item numbers run consecutively through these two tables).
10.       The project is estimated to cost Rs 163.5 million (about US$18
million) at 1975/76 prices 1/. Project implementation would commence in 1976
and would be completed by the end of 1981. On account of the scattered nature
of the work and the time required for ordering, all the road construction
equipment (Annex 7, Table 2) would need to be procured in the first year of
the project. On completion of construction, the equipment would be retained
by R & B for use in the maintenance of roads in the project area. Detailed
survey and design for each section of road is still to be undertaken but, as
the R & BD estimated costs per km of road include a small allowance for
physical contingencies, an additional allowance has been provided at 15%
instead of the 20% which is customary for this type of work.
11.       As the state of existing roads and tracks still has to be ascertained
in Blocks L21/7 to L21/11 and in the lift areas of the Left Bank, and in Block
R22 on the Right Bank, the estimated requirements for these Blocks have been
calculated at a similar density to the rest of the project area. The final
selection of roads for inclusion in the project was made jointly by CAD and
R & B. The criteria extending the network to within 4 km of almost every
village and field would bring more than half of the villages within 1 km of a
road and about 90% of them to within 3 km, as indicated by the following table
prepared by CAD:
1/   Based on the R & B Standard Schedule of Rates 1975/76, which is operative
from October 1975 to September 1976.
49



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Left Bank          Right Bank
Distance from nearest                Percent of          Percent of
WBM road                         Villages           Villages
Within 1 km                            59                   54
1 to 2 km                              16                   16
2 to 3 km                              16                   16
3 to 4 km                               8                   13
over 4 km                                1                   1
Totals:                                100                 100
Implementation
12.       All rehabilitation, improvements and new construction would be
undertaken by local contractors selected by local competitive bidding (LCB)
and supervised by an R & B Circle set up in the command area specifically for
the project. As the work is widely scattered over the area, it would be split
up into small contracts; each contract should, whenever possible, be capable
of completion within 12 months. In accordance with local practice, R & B
will provide construction equipment on hire to the contractors and will
supply all cement and steel required in the works.
13.       Bidding procedures and conditions of contract in current use need
some revision, particularly in respect of: (i) the lack of contractor's rights
in cases of delays which are caused by circumstances outside the contractor's
control; (ii) the absence of any price variation clause, and (iii) the fact
that the final arbitrator in cases of dispute is an appointed official of
the same Government department as is a party to the contract. With regard
to item (ii) above, a price variation clause should be introduced for all con-
tracts of more than 12 months duration, including those intended for comple-
tion within this period but which may be subjected to delays through no fault
of the contractor.
Standards and Methods
14.       The standards to be adopted for command area roads are generally
sound and acceptable, being based on Indian Roads Congress (IRC) standards
and Codes of Practice. All project roads would be built on a 20m right of way
with a formation width of 7.5m, carriage way width of 3.8m and pavement depth
of from 15cm to 40cm according to the California Bearing Ratio (CBR) value of
the soil. All road pavements would be of waterbound macadam construction and
without bitumenous sealing. Alignments would be adopted for project roads
which lie within, or partly within, canal rights-of-way wherever it is found
to be technically possible and economically advantageous to do so, and all
roads included in the program would pass around the outskirts and not through
the middle of villages.
50



ANNEX 3
Page 6
15.       Labor-intensive construction methods are universally employed in
Andhra Pradesh and are suited to local conditions. Compaction of road for-
mations by mechanical rollers is, however, essential and the practice of using
light hand rollers or of leaving earth banks for a period of several years
before constructing road pavements is unacceptable. By adopting proper
compaction methods and careful planning, early paving of the roads can safely
be carried out.
Organization
16.       Two ministries will be concerned with the implementation of the
road project. The CAD Department reporting directly to the Chief Minister
will be responsible for the planning of the command area road network and the
R & B under the Minister of Roads, Buildings and Transport for the survey,
design, implementation and maintenance of these roads. The overall responsi-
bility for the program would rest with the Secretary, CAD, who would control
funding. The R & B would act as the executing agency for project roads
while retaining full responsibility for the existing R & B network.
17.       The  R & B is competent to undertake the road program but would re-
quire strengthening. The R & B Circle to be set up under the project would
have its headquarters within the command area and would comprise up to six
divisions, each of which would control three or four sub-divisions. The
Circle would be headed by a Superintending Engineer, reporting to the Chief
Engineer, R & B who, in turn, will be responsible to the Secretary, CAD,
for the execution of the road program. The Chief Engineer would have a
small coordinating unit for the project within his headquarters which would
be supervised by an Assistant Engineer. Each division would be run by an
Executive Engineer and each sub-division by an Assistant Engineer. All engi-
neers would be professionally qualified. As Andhra Pradesh has a surplus
of qualified engineers, recruitment of suitable staff should pose no problems.
The Circle will have the task of all survey, design, preparation and super-
vision of contracts and of quality control. For all necessary assistance
with pavement design and quality control, the Circle would have direct access
to the existing materials laboratory of Guntur, which is capable of under-
taking the required materials selection and works acceptability testing. The
additional test equipment required for field control would be supplied under
the project.
18.       In order to salvage as much as possible of the investment made
in command area roads in recent years by ZP and Samithi Councils and by
NSP, first priority should be given to the rehabilitation of the waterbound
macadam roads selected for inclusion in the project. The priority given to
the improvement of earth roads and the construction of new roads would depend
on location; the objective would be to complete the network as quickly as
51



ANNEX 3
Page 7
possible in the areas already irrigated and to complete the roads in new areas
about 18 months to two years after completion of the irrigation distribution
system. This is the normal period which it has been found is required to
establish irrigation development. Experience has shown that waterbound
macadam roads built in advance of the generation of traffic needs deteriorate
as a result of the vegetation encroachment.
19.       A provisional time schedule has been prepared on the basis of R &
B divisional work load norms and is presented in Table 4. This would require
revision as detailed planning of the project proceeds but represents a
satisfactory estimate of the construction schedule.
Traffic Data
20.       Some work has been done by R & B on traffic forecasts for their
existing network on the Left Bank, but this has been hampered by lack of
basic data and little has been done in connection with command area roads.
The need for statistical data will increase as the command area development
progresses in order to make the preparation of future road upgrading programs
possible.
Road Maintenance
21.       The maintenance standard of roads in Andhra Pradesh is generally
inadequate. This is due to lack of funds and the adverse effect on road
foundations of raising the water table which results from the irrigation of
adjacent land. These are both contributing factors in some cases but there
are other causes, the most important of which are mentioned in paragraph 5. A
concentrated physical effort to catch up with the backlog of maintenance of
the R & B roads is required.
22.       The R & B estimated cost of maintenance at 1975/76 prices is
Rs 5,100/km/annum. The estimate of funds required for road maintenance in
the project area through the project period and on completion is:
/I
Year                   Estimated Cost (Rs millions)
R & B Roads   Project Roads   Total
1st (April 1976 to March 1977)       9.0          nil             9.0
2nd                                  9.0          0.1             9.1
3rd                                  9.0          2.6            11.6
4th                                  9.0          4.6             13.6
5th                                  9.0          6.3             15.3
6th and subsequent                   9.0          8.0            17.0
/1     1975/76 prices.
April 1976                                                                          52



ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NSP  LEFT  BANK  -   SUMMARY  OF  AREAS.  EXISTING  R & B  ROADS  AND  PROPOSED  SSP IAR1S
Block  Total Land  Total            Localized       Existing                 Proposed N4k  Roads                     Total
No.       Area      Commandable       Area         R & B    Rehabilitation Improvements New              Total -rods on
Area                          Roads    of exist9g         to existing  Construc- ProposeW J om4.-
 -- -(Km2 )i roads                                                    earth roads. tion                     tion of
-- - - - - -      - - - - - - - - - -   (Km)- - - - - - - - - Project
Li          76             76            44             6+             9+           --                       9          6
L2          40             40            23             6             -             -             44-       4          11
L3          40             40            24             5+ )1                       5                        97
L4         265            196           124           28 0           11+           25+            2        39          73
L5         321            250           133           374             7+            -            23        30+         73+
L6         103             87            54             5
L7          13             13             8            -              -                           -         - _
L8           8              4             3            _              -             _
L9          43             43            29             1+            -             7             3        10          11+
LIO        295            267           154          1il             24+            9            12        45+         57
Lll         46             46            27            6T             _                                                 6t
L12         39             38            23            24 -                                       2          2          4
L13        947            677          449            76             75            41            30+      146+        223
L14        170            107            66            7              -            11+            9        20+         27+
L15        182              8             6            21             -                          13        13          15+
L16        634 l          599           364           74             49            41             6         96        170
L17         96 J                         25           16              -             31            -          3+        1942
L18         44             12             7           13                                          -         -          13
L19        291            288           133           17              6            30+            3        39+         564-
L20        891            435          398            99             154           40             3+       59         158
L21/1 toL2V6      889            636          506           117             28            10            14        52         169
Lot;le L  to  5,433           3,862         2,640           534            2264-         219           1252      571      1,105
L21/7 toL21/1       1/                      1,004           244             86            84            45       215         459
Lift Areas    2,930            2/             324            2              27+           27            14+       69
and small                                     3              2
pockets                                                                                               -          -
Left Bank      8,363           2/           3,968            2/            340           330           185       855          2/
Totals                                                    V 
1/  Approximate figures;  boundaries not yet determined. 3 "Bid  .aterbound macadam
Ln 1    2/  Figureb not available.                                                                                                       ( K



ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NSP  RIGHT  BANK  -   SUMMARY  OF  AREAS,  EXISTING  R & H  ROADS  AND  PROPOSED NSP   ROADS
Block  Total Land        Total      Localized       Existing                 Proposed NSP Roads                      Total
No.       Area      Commandable       Area         R & H    Rehabilitation Improvements New              Total      Aoads on
Area                       Roads    of existing       to existing  Construc- Proposed  Comple-
2 )BM roads 1/                                     earth          tion                  tion of
- - - - - - - - (Km )- - - - - - - -                                    roads                                Proj ect
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - (Km) - - - - - - - - - - - - -
R1          23              5             1            10+                                                            1i4
R2          36              9             4             -      -             -                         -                -
R3         157            105            59             8+           14                           3        17-         26
R4         221            221           131            17             -             8T1                     25         42t
R5         251            225           125           41              -             _            12        12          53
R6         609            504           278            26            48+            5            20        13+        100
R7          51'            35            20            11             _                           -          -
R8 L R9        782           429           252            91              _1.1
RID      1,821          1,808        1,163           257             57             7-           56       121         378
R11      1,670          1,607           985          172             47            30            69       146         31.8
R12        105             39            22            11+            -             -             -          -         11+
R13        262            167            93           42               9           12             -        21          63
R14        182            137            82            17             -             -            17+       174         34+
R15        181            167           108            28+           14+            -             -         14+        43
R16         92             34            23             -              6            -            14         20         20
R17        101             91            45            16             4             -             -         4          20
RIO        142            142            73            13+            -             -            12        12          254
R19        416            416           245           26             15             6+           18        39+         654
R20         59             58            29             4+           11             -             3         14         184
R21        162            162            79            14             7             _            10        17          31
TotalR  RI  7,329          6,361         3,817           809            233            80+         268+       582      1,391
R22      1,413          1,339           936          112             58             3+           77+      139         251
Right       8,nk 8 742     7,700         4,753           921            291            84          346        721      1,642
dD2  = Waterbound macadam



INDIA
ANNEX 3
ANDuRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CqOtITE PROJECT            Table 3A
Page 1
NSP LEFT BANK - SCHEDULE OF PROPOSED NP ROADS.
Item      Road .                              Rehabilitation  Improvement  Now
No.       Ref.       Description of           of existiay      of existing   roads
No.         the Road.              WBe res           earth roads.
1.    L/1/3     PWD    Road to Rajavoyam via
Tirumalagiri and Bovagudem        905
2.    L/2/4     Road from Yerdandla to
PWD    Road                                                  4.5
3.    L/4/8     khkundapur - Tummadam Road         4.0
4.    L/4/10    Demaroherla - Veerlapalem
and beyond up to Midiman-
ikym major (Pert)                7'5
5.     L/4/5     Tummadam - Adavidevulapalli
Road                                             23.5
6.    L/4/6     Tuwmadam - Vaddariguda Road                       2.0
7.    L/4/10(A) PWD    Road to Veerlapalem
(Up to Voeralapalem Xajor
only)                                                       2.0
8.    L/,/10    Damer oherla-Veerlapalem
Road (Pert)                       7.5
9.     L/5/2(A)  PWD    Road to Dilwalpur-
tanda via Venkatadripalem                                    8.o
10.    L/5/1(A)  PWD    Road to Tettekunta                                    6&.0O
11.    L/6/1(A)  Miryalaguda - Takkalapadu                                     9.0
12.    L/9/2     Somarao - Chellapalli Road                       7.0
13.    L/9/Z(A)  Somaram to N.S. left Main
oanal                                                        3.0
14.    L/10/4    Gardepalli - Dophad via
Pongods (Part)                    7.C
15.    L/10/16   Janpad - Neridioherla
(on   PWD  Road)                 17.5
16.    L/10/11   Alangapur - Janpad (Up to
Gundla-Pa tonly)                                 3.0
/  All existing and proposed roads have been allocated oonsecutive referenoe
numbers in eaoh blook; numbers omitted from this sohedule refer to roads
excluded from the projot.
W WBM = Viaterbound macadam
55-



INDIA                          A4NEX 3
AX-A            M IRRIGATION AND C&D CO(POSITE PROJECT   Table 23A
171    L/10/14   Jampad -  m&kaliguda Read                          6.o
18.    L/10/11(A) Alangapur - Gardspalli
via ralsalobervu                                             12.00
19,    L/12/1(A) Jerripotu2lgudes
Bethel road                                                    2.0
20.    L/13/9    Jarkatgud.n to K.R.
Puram via Sadigudeu (Pazrt)        3.0
21.    L/13/41   Husurngar - Nettapalli
Road                              20.0
22.    L/13/42   Medlaoheruvu to Chintriyal
L/13/43   via Mallareddyguda, Sobha
and      nadrigudeal Tammaram and
L/13/40   Nakkaguda including
approaah road to Chintriyal       38.5            1.0
23.    L/13/44   Road from Muktyala to
Nallareddyguda via
Dondapadu and tlalka-
puraa                              13.5
24.    L/13/4    Husurnagar - Yatavakila
road in two streoheas
KX 0/0 to 3/0 and 7/0
to 12/5)                                         8.5
25.    L/13/10   Approach road to
Tellabally                                        3.5
26.    L/13/11   Tella b-11  - Ratnav ra2
Road (PartS                                       2.0
27.    L/13/15   Bethol to  PWD  Road via
Chilkur                                           8.5
28.    L/13/33   Approach road to Nemali-
puri                                              6.o
29.    L/13/36   Jogikunt& - Gundalapalli
Road                                              7.0
30.    L/13/39   Reballi - Tammarao Road                            3.0
31.    L/13/12   10^      An  agiri Road                            1.5
32.    L/13/4(A) Aaarzara  on  PWD  road to
Mordapu#and beyond                                             6.0
33.    L/23/6(A) Fe der Road to Jaggaiakpat-
Kuktyala Road (pND)
(at about 4.5 KM from
r4uktyala village)                                             2.5
56-



INDIA
AiXiX 3
ANDHRA PRADESH IRTGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT      Table 3A
Page 3
34.    L/13/24(A) Dontapedu to  H.s.9 via
Ranpurand Annavaram                                          18.5
35.    L/13/36(A) Jogihunta to hedlanheru
Chingrial road (Meeting
at about 2KM from
Nedlaoheruyu                                                 3.5
36.    L/14/6    Kodad to Vollapur via
Signaram and Tripuraram                          4.0
37.    L/14/7    Kodad - Anantagiri Road
(Part)                                           5.5
38.    L/14/10   Approach road to Chimrial                         2.0
39.    L/14/6(A) Vollapur to Euvara
Madhavaram                                                    2.o
40.    L/14/6(B) Tripuraram - Anantagiri
Road                                                          5.0
41.    L/14/10(A) Chimriyal-Gondrai Road                                        2.0
42.    L/15/3    Bhagavatveedu -
Maddivarigudam and
beyond                                                        13.C
43.    L/16/7    Shermohammadpet -
Gondri and beyond up to
District border                   8.5
44.    L/16/10   Jaggaiahpet - Vedadri road
(Part) Stretch towards
Vedadri end).                     6.5
45-    L/16/9    Jagaaiahpet - Beausupadu
Road (Part)                        2.5
46.    L/16/24   Vedadri - Konakanchi road
and beyond up to N.H. 9          11.0
47.    L/16/25   From N.H. 9 near Nawabpet
to Penuganohiprolu                7.5
48.    L/16/26   Makkapet to Penuganohi -
prolu Road                        7.5
49.    L/16/52   Muppala - Sturu (Two bits
1.,XKM at Muppala end,
and 4,00 KM at Eturu end)          5.5
50.    L/16/10   Jabgaiahpet - Vedadri Road
(Part stretch at
Jaggaiahpet end).                               3.0
57,



INDIA                                r NEX3
-                          ~~~~~~TabWeA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT         Page 4
51.    L/16/41   Nandigana - Gudimetal (Rama-
nuapet) Road                                      15.0
52.    L/16/52   Muppala - Eturu (Part)                             8.0
53.    L/16/55   Chandrulapadu - Patempadu
Road                                              3.0
54.    L/16/60   Gandrai - Eakkapet Road                           10.0
5j.    L/16/64   Mangollu - Ramachandra -
puram Road                                        2.0          2.0
56.    L/16/5)(A) Patempadu - VeldiDalem Road                                    4.0
57.    L/17/13   Painapalli - Cherumadhavaram
Road                                              3.5
58.    L/19/4    Mudikonda on  PWD  Road
to Vallabhi and beyond
up to dist. border (Part).         2.0
59.    L/19/14   Jaggaiahpeta - Balusupadu
road (part)                        4.0
6o.    L/19/3    Gudimella - Kodad-Khammam
Road                                              4-0
61.    L/19/4    Mudikonda on  FWD  road to
Vallabhi and beyond up to
dist. border (part)                              21.0
62.    L/19/11   Vallabhi - Appalanarasim-
hapuram road                                      5.5
63.    L/19/7(A) Pammi to Ammipeta on
Mudikonda Vallabhi Road                                        3.0
64.    L/20/14   Chintakani - Venkatayapalem
Road (part)                        1.0
65.    L/20/17   Pallipadu - Guvvagurthi Road
(part)                             1.0
66.    L/20/19   Khammmam to Kodamoor Road
(part)                             2.0
67.    L/20/37   Brahmarapalli - Motemavvi
Road                               6.5
68.    L/20/ 47  Polampalli - Dabbakupalli
Road                               5.0
69.    L/20/14   Chintakani - Venkatayapalem
Road (part)                                      11.5
~58-



INDIA                               ANNIEX 3
Table 3A
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT       Page 5
70.    L/20/17   Pallipadu - Quvvagurthi
Road (part)                                       8.0
71.    L/20/19   Khammam - Kodamoor Road
(part)                                            3.0
72.    L//20/20   Bonakallu R.S. to Khammam
via Masthikuntap Nagulavancha
and Muthkepalli (part
between Nagulavanoha and
Muthkepalli                                       4.0
73.    L/20/21   Baswapur to Tattkuntala
via Peddamungala, Reddy-
gudem and Produtur
(between Baswapur and
Produtur)                                        13.5
74.    L/20/14(A) Jangareddygudem - Muthkepalli
Road                                                          2.0
75.    L/20/47(A) Dabbakupalli to Vatsavai                                       1.5
76.    L/21/20   Kalluru to Chinakorakonda
via Tingola, Chennuru, Pedd-
acporakonda and Kistaram
(up to Kistaram)                  20.0
77.    L/21/38   PWD    Road to Gosaveedu
via Meenavolu, Sakinaveedu
and Ingal (up to Ingal)            8.0
78.    L/21/17   FWD    Road to Peddaikora -
konda via Ramanuja-Madnur
and Kornavelu (part - up
to Kornavelu                                     10.0
79.    L/21,/1(A) FWD    Road to Bakkachintalapad                                6.0
80.    L/21/12(A) Lokavaram to PWD    road
via Ramachandrapuram                                          8.0
81.    -          Zisti..ated length of road
required in blocks L21/7 to
L21/1l, calculated on a road
density basds                     86.o           84.0         45.0
32.    -          Esti,iiated length of.road
required in Lift areas and
small pockets, calculated on
a road density basis              27.5            27.0        14.5
-59-



INDIA                              At JNM.X 3
Table 3D
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CC)4POSITE PROJECT      Page 1
NSP RIGHT BANK  -  SCHEDULE OF PROPOSED N6  ROADS.
Item      Road *1                             Rehabilitation   Improvement New
No.  Ref.                                ofriionoexIstin ~   of existing  roads.
10.           the Road.              wBiA roads I/    o ear sth n roads.
83.    R/3/2     Tumurukot Branch road to
Paluvai                           6.5
04.    R/3//2    Rentala to Jettipalem
(part)                                                      3.5
85.    R/3/3     Approach road from Kombhampadu
to Ganryaram on Guntur-
Tlyderabad road                   3.5
86.    R/3/4     ApproacnL road from hvjacherla
to Jammulamadaka                  4.0
87.    R/4/l(A)  Rentala-JatBipalam road (part)                               4.
88.    R/4/l(B)  s.iittagudi?adu to Gothimukkala
Major                                                        4.0
89.    R/4/1(C)  Pulipadu to Daida                                            6.0
90.    R/4/3(A)  Rentachinta to Rentala                                       3.0
'l.    R/4/4     Gurazala road to Obulesanipalle
up to ;'adugula only                               8.0
92.    R/5/1(B)  Gurazala to Pulipadu                                         5.0
93.    R/5/3(A)  Nadikudi-'Togulapadu road                                    7.0
94.    R/6/23    Dachepalli-Tangada road via
Mutvalampadu                     13.00
95.    R/6/l0    Road from Brahmanapalli to
Regulagadda (par-)
(Chiunayepalrm to Regulagedde)                     5.0
96.    R/6/l0(A) Matchayaram to Chinnayapalem                                  9.0
97.    R/6/23(A) Matchayaram to BJrahamanapalli
via Kamepalli                     8.o
93.    R/6/22    PiJlutla to Govindapuram          10.0
i/ All existing and proposed roads have been allocated consecutive referenoe
numbers in each blook; numbers omitted from this schedule refer to roads
excluded from the project.
2g  .i = Waterbound macadam
60



-NDIA                            ANNX 3
Table 3B
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT    Page 2
99.    u/6/21    2a1akallu to Pillutla
ro^&                              17*5
100.   R/6/21(A) Padagarlapadu to meet
ZLlakallu-Pillutla road                                    11.0
101.   R/8/1(A)  Velperu to Oravakallu                                        4.5
102.   R/8/7     Velpuru to Peddapalem                               3.0
103.   B/9/6     Reddigudsu (on Guntur-
Hyderabad road) to
Uppalapadu                                         8.5
104.   R/9/6(A)  Doddlevuto Buriga banda                                     11.00
105.   R/10/5(A) Bhatluru to meet Sattenpalli -
Atohampet road                                               6.0
106.   R/10/5* 0 4.12/1 of G.P. Road to Pedakur..
padu via Siripuram                10.00            5-5
107.   R/10/6(A) Talluru to Ponnekallu                                       18.0
108.   R/10/52(D) 1.8/2 Guntur-Amarayathi road
to Ponnekallu                     2.0
109.   R/10/47(A) Banfarupalli to meet Talluru-
Ponnekallu new CAD road                                     4.0
110.  R/10/47   Bazdarupalli to Railwa
Station                            1.5
111.   R/10/52(7) Kantipudi to Komerapudi            3.0
112.   R/10/3(A) Nudurupadu to  oset
Narasaropet 8attonpalli
road                                -                       13.00
113.   R/10/51   Genikepudi to Mhrya                 2.5
114.   R/10/51(A) Unays to Gumtur-
Chilakalurpiet road                                         2.5
115.   1/10/24   Chirumazilla to meet
Satuluru-Tubadu road               3.0
116.   R/10/52   Satuluru to Tubadu                  7.5
117.   R/10/52(B) Edavalli to Kotappakonda           5.0
118.   R/10/52(C) Kotappakonda to Narasaraopet    10.0
61



INDIA 
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT      Table 3B
Page 3
119.   R/10/12   Narazaraopst to Alluri-
PaleM                              4.0
120.   R/10/4(A) Gollapadi to Uppal                                            13.0
121.   R/10/52(A) Tondapi to meet Guntur
Hyderabad road                    5.0
122.   R/10/52(A) Burigabanda to meet Guntur-
Hyderabad road                    3.5
123.   R/10/43   Bayyavaram to Ramapuram                             2.0
124.   R/11/7    Vipparla Kinkalaguntla
Road                               8.o
125.   R/11/8    Naraearaopet-Romoicherla
Road (part)                        7.0
126.   R/11/9    Rompicherla-Ipuru road
(up to uppal1a) Part               9.0
127.   R/11/27   Vinukonda to Koppaxapadu
via Enegupol-a, Pittambanda
Nagulavaram (part)               18.0
128.   R/11/49   Old Madras road leading to
Ambativaripalem via
Idupulapedu                        5.0
129.   R/Il/ll,
15 & 29   Santaimaguluru to Dbharmavaram
via Bandavaripalem, Kopparam,
Kopparapalem Ballikor'a and
Ambadipudi (three parts)                          10.0
130.   R/11/19   Adivapalem, Vallalacheruvu
road in part up to R & B
road                                               3.5
131.   R/11/37   Addanki Konanki road in part
up to Dharmavaram                                 11.5
132.   R/11/9(A) Boggaram to Thruviaella and
to connect R & B road                                        11.0
133.   R/11/11(A)Samtamaguluru to Dihar :amavaram
15(A),    via Bandavaripalem, Kopparam,
29(A)     K&pparapalem, Ballikorva and
Ambadipudi (Three parts)                                     16.0
62-



INDIA                               ANNEX 3
-    Table 3B
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECI        Page 4
134.   R/11/19(A) Vayyakallu Chinnakancherla
road                                                         5.5
135.   R/11/19(B) Vayyakallu Adavipalem Road                                     5.5
136.   R/11/27(A) Valamvaripalem to Gorrepadu
Z.?. road                                                    5.0
137.   R/11/41(A)'Dronadula to Takkellapadu-
Chandaluru road via
Tallavaripalem                                              15.0
138.   R/11/47(A) NTagandla to Ambatavaripalem                                   3.0
139.   R/11/51(A) Vankayalapadu to Kodavati-
varipalem                                                     8.o
140.   R/11/57(B)Inkollu, Koniki, Duddukuru
(part) and road                                               5.C
R/11/41
(part)
141.  R1/13/5    Vinukonda-Guttapalli road
up to Boundary of NSP                              12.0
142.   R/13/12   Vinukonda-Enugupalem road            9.0
143.   R/14/1(A) Sira,ouram to DandapaXu                                         6.5
144.   R/14*1(B) Kottapalem to Ammalacheruvu                                    11.0
145.   R/15/2    Gangavaram to Marrivalula           11.5
146.   R/15/4    Thripurantakam to .iriampalli
road                                3.0
147.  R1/16/1    Kuruchedu-Avulamanda Road            6.o
148.   R/16/1(A) Avulamanda to Chandavelu                                       10.0
149.   R/16/1(B) Road from Avulaxianda-
Kuruchedu Road to meet
h'ustulaganavaram                                              4.0
150.   R/17/3    Kurichedu-Avulamanda road
(up to boundary)                    4.0
151.   R/18/2(A) From Vinukonda-,M4upparaju-
varipalem road to meet
Darsi Branch canal                                            12.0
152.   R/19/2(B) Road along Darsi branch
canal within block boundary                                   7-0
153.   R/19/2(C) Bavvavaram to Kottapalem via
Vemula and Kammavaram                                6.5       7.0
154.   R/19/3    Peddaullagadu Zammulamadakg
Road (part)                        12.0                             63



TNae 3
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CaCPOSITE PROJECT      Table 3B
155.  R/19/4    Zamuelamadaka to Marella             3.0
156.   R/19/1(A) Kantrupsdu to meet Sankara-
purm on Darui-Addanki Road                                   4.0
157.  R/20/3    Pothavaram to meet Darsi
Vinukonda road                     7.0
i58.   R/20/1(A) Mupparajuvaripalem to meet
Darsi Addanki road                                           3.0
159.   R/20/2    Pa4daullagallu to meet
Chintalapudi                       4.0
160.   R/21/3(A) Mohidinapuram to meot
Darsi Addanki Road                                           5.0
161.   R/21/4    Mundlamuru-SivaramPuram
road (part)                        7.o
162.   R/21/4(A) Manepalli to meet Mundalamuru
Sivarampuram Road                                            5.0
163.     -       Estimated length of road
required in block R22,
calculated on a road             58.o               3.5     77.5
density basis
64



INDIA                                              AMNEX 3
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT                       Table 4
PROVISIONAL TIME SCHEDULE FOR NSP ROAD PROGRAM
 - - - - -  - - - - - - (Km completed road) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --- -
GaAP FY(Apr.l - Mar.3k9276/77          1977/78         1978/79         1979/80         19B0/81         1961/82         Totals
Rehabilitation of         13             456             162              -               -                -              631
existing VU roads i/
Improving earth roads      5              15             123             179              92              -              414
to iBM standard
Nsw'nBM roads              5              15             106             155             215               35             531
Totals                    23             486             391             334             307               35          1,576
IDA FY(July 1 - June 30)     1976/77         1977/78          1978/79         1979/80         1980/81
Rehabilitation of               127             382             122              -               -                        631
existing i(BM roads
Improving earth roads to          9              42             137             157              69                       414
dBM standard
Now WBM roads                     9              38             118             170             196                       531
Totals                          145             462             377             327             265                     1,576
Source: Mission, based on information from R & B.
J/ BdM = iaterbound macadam
Cr%
0'



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
CAD Component
General
1.        At present, farmers'fields are small (in general, less than 1/3 of
an acre). Most fields, in the presently irrigated areas, have no direct ac-
cess to irrigation water (field-to-field irrigation is common) and where water
is supplied it is through long and winding watercourses, which usually follow
field boundaries and these are not always aligned according to topography.
Fields have no drainage and during the irrigation season, water accumulates in
low spots causing water logging and salinity. Although some land shaping and
leveling have been done by traditional methods, the land after development
remains rather irregular in topography. Property boundaries are demarcated
by bunds. Small temporary bunds are used to divide fields, especially where
paddy is grown. The proposed on-farm development and Agricultural Supporting
Services program would focus on more efficient farm water use, and would re-
sult in higher yields through more timely applications of irrigation water,
adequate drainage and better culcivation techniques.
On-Farm Development Works
2.        The project deals with two major types of on-farm works:
(i) irrigation and drainage infrastructure, i.e. the construction
of a network of field channels, field drains and related struc-
tures (drops, distribution boxes and turn-outs), in the command
of an outlet (pipe) including the lining of channels where re-
quired and farm access roads, and
(ii) land leveling and shaping of the farm holdings.
Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
3.        A number of pilot on-farm development works were carried out by
GOAP in the Pochampad project area in order to experiment with various design
parameters, establish unit costs, test implementation procedures and refine
survey and planning work. Because of steep topography, the size of the area
commanded from the outlet in the Pochampad pilot project varied considerably.
It ranged from 34 ac to 81 ac. In the 34 ac pipe, the size of the largest
66



ANNEX 4
Page 2
holding was 5.2 ac, and the smallest 0.4 ac, for a total of 11-beneficiaries.
In the 81 ac pipe, the largest holding was 8.3 ac, the smallest again 0.4 ac,
for a total of 40 beneficiaries. All the pipes were on sandy loam soils with
slopes ranging from 2% to 4%. Soil depth varied between 9 inches and 18
inches. The steep topography limited the number of alternative water course
and drain alignments. One of the major objectives of the pilot development was
to test farmers reactions to various irrigation and drainage layouts.
Although results in general were inconclusive and varied from pipe to pipe,
considerable experience in planning and implementation was accumulated.
4.        Strong farmer resistance to any form of border realignment was en-
countered. Alternative layouts were therefore tested. To arrive at a cost
differential between infrastructural works with or without border realignment,
at least two alternative layouts were planned and estimated for each of the
pipes in the pilot development. One was designed with full border re-
alignment, with water courses and drains aligned fully in accordance with
topography. The second layout left existing field boundaries essentially
unchanged; alignments were in accordance with topography but canal length
increased considerably to allow for deviations along field boundaries. A
comparison between the two layouts showed a 15% to 25% cost increase for the
second alternative. Most of the increase was caused by the larger number of
drop structures, and distribution boxes, resulting from the longer canals.
5.        To speed up land development in the first stage project, a com-
promise to the border realignment issue was negotiated with GOAP. It was
agreed that field channels and drains, in general, would follow field bound-
aries as long as the resulting layouts remained technically acceptable and the
additional cost to the farmers, as a result of longer channels, was not more
than 25% when compared with a layout based on complete border realignment.
All channels, drains and structures would be communal property. The Pipe
Committee (Water Users Association) in an outlet would be jointly responsible
for the operation and maintenance of this communal property. Once an effec-
tive extension service would be operating in the project areas to explain and
demonstrate to farmers the considerable advantages of border realignment, it
is expected that the farmer resistance would disappear.
6.        Land leveling and/or shaping would be compulsory on all farm hold-
ings. In the case of 'irrigated wet" areas, the farmers prefer to level their
holdings themselves as they have been attending to such work traditionally
without outside assistance. In "irrigated dry" areas, however, where in
most cases slopes would have to be provided both in the longitudinal and in
the transverse directions, the villagers would need mechanical equipment and
technical assistance.
7.        Land leveling would be carried out in one of three ways:
(a) by the CAD Authority through suitable contracting agencies;
(b) by the farmer himself with a loan obtained from a bank, and
(c) by the farmer himself without financial assistance from a
bank.
-67



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Regardless of what manner the work would be accomplished, designs and
technical supervision would be provided by the CAD Authority.
8.        The CAD Authority would publish its detailed work program for each
of the project areas. Technical assistance to farmers working by themselves
would follow this timetable. If assistance was not requested in time, the
farmers would have to carry out the work without technical advice, in accord-
ance with plans and specifications prepared by the CAD Authority. If the work
was not completed within the time alloted to the farmer (usually two dry seasons),
or was not carried out to the required standards, the CAD Authority would
complete the work and charge the cost to the farmer.
Planning and Design Work
9.        In the pilot project, topographical mapping for the planning of
water courses, field channels and drains and for the land leveling of the
individual holdings was done by grid leveling. For cadastral information,
village maps were used. Grid leveling is an inaccurate system in areas
of accidental topography. Village maps are basically sketch maps and often
do not enable accurate reconstruction of field boundaries. Attention was
drawn during project preparation to these deficiencies and the use of a
rectified air photo base for all survey and cadastral work was recommended to
the CAD Authorities. In addition to greater accuracy, this would speed up
survey and cadastral work considerably and reduce costs. Following lengthy
discussions wih the Survey of India and the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Irrigation (GOI), arrangements were made for the preparation of 1:1,500
rectified air coverage of the CAD areas. Initially, the aerial photogrammetric
work would be financed by GOI, out of funds made available by the Bank, under a
previous CAD project credit. On receipt of the prints, the CAD authority
would repay the cost to GOI.
Implementation of On-Farm Development Works
10.       The engineering and loan survey work in a pipe for infrastructure
and land leveling would be done simultaneously. Implementation, however,
would be by two different types of contractors and not necessarily at the
same time. Construction of watercourses, field channels and drains, which is
mostly earthwork and masonry (drop structures, division boxes, farm outlets),
would be let to small village contractors. The works are simple and the
necessary expertise should be readily available in the villages. All ex-
cavation would be done by manual labor. The works would be staked out and
construction supervised by the Land Development Divisions (LDD) of the CAD
Authority. Land leveling work, generally involving the moving of small
quantities of earth over short distances, would be let to small contractors
or farmers owning suitable wheeled tractors. The work covering several pipes
in one village would be tendered at one time. Farmers and small contractors
generally do not own tractor-drawn equipment required for the leveling
operation. These will be procured by the CAD Authority and hired out to
68



ANNEX 4
Page 4
the successful contractors on a daily or weekly basis (Table 1). Similar
arrangements are common for small road construction works. Corporations or
bigger contractors also would be able to bid for these works. Initially, the
LDDs would provide detailed technical guidance to the leveling contractors to
enable them to carry out the work in accordance with correct soil conserva-
tion practices. In time, the contractors would become more experienced and
the LDDs involvement would be reduced.
11.       An experimental cum training center would be set up in the Pochampad
project area for this purpose. The GOI has made available the necessary fi-
nancing to GOAP to procure equipment for the operation of the center which
was to have been fully operative by early 1976 (Table 2). The center would
operate as a contracting agency for land leveling works in the ongoing CAD
program in Pochampad. An adequate number of field supervisory personnel would
be trained in the center during the dry season of 1976, to implement the
project's first year land leveling program.
April 1976
69



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Tractor--Attachments to be owned by CAD Department
and Hired to Petty Contractors
1 Tractor levels on the average 0.4 ha/day or in 120-130 working days 50 ha.
Number of Tractors needed per year (Assuming 50% of area would be leveled by
tractors).
1976-77       1977-78       1978-79
Nagarjunasagar Project (Left)                 16              48           96
Nagarjunasagar Project (Right)                16              48           96
Tungabhadra Project (HLC)                      -              16          48
Pochampad Project                             48              96          192
80            208          432
720
Average requirement of tractors: 3 = 240 tractors/year.
Requirement of Attachments/Implements for land leveling_
Assuming 80 tractors would need attachments in the first year, 120
more the second year, and 200 more in the third year; the requirement for
attachments and implements would be:
1976-77       80 sets
1977-78      120 sets
1978-79      200 sets
Cost of each set:
Cultivator             Rs. 3,000
Disc plough            Rs. 3,000
Multipurpose
blade terracer         Rs. 3,000
Total               Rs. 9,000
(Rw.es in    ,000)
Estimated Costs                            1976-77       1977-78        1978-79
Attachments                            7.20         10.8            18.0
Pumps & piping                         0.80          1.2             2.0
Total             8.o          12.0           20.0
70



ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Equipment Requirements for Experimental-Cum-Training Center
Note:- Work will be done on farmer's land for all field trials
and experimentation.
A.   MACHINES.                                                        Rs 100,000
i)  Wheeled Tractor 30-40 hp                 2 @ Rs 60,000        1.20
ii)  Wheeled Tractor 60-70 hp                 2 @ Rs 90,000        1.80
iii)  Trailer for carrying                     1 @ Rs 20,000       .0.20
attachments, accessories etc.
iv) Pump 10 hp Diesel driven
trolley mounted                          2 @ Rs 10,000        0.20
Total (A)          3.40
B.   ACCESSORIES/ATTACHMENTS/TOOLS/SPARES:
i)  Cultivator 11 tyne                       4 @ Rs  3,000       0.12
ii)  Disc plough                              4 @ Rs  3,000       0.12
iii)  Multipurpose Blade terracer              4 0 Rs  3,000       0.12
iv)  Aluminum pipes and fixtures            300MN Rs     70       0.21
v)  Small tools,                                                 0.05
vi)  Spares for machines                                          0,51
Total (B)
C.   SERVICING-CUM-TRAINING SHED.
i) Shed 24 Mx6.5M with tubular
steel trusses and Asbestos sheet
roofing                                  156 sq,m. @ 250     0.39
ii)  Furniture/fittings                                            0.11
Total (C)           0.50 
ABSTRACT ESTIMATES
A.   MACHINES                                          Rs34o0,000
B.    ACCESSORIES ETC.                                 Rs.113,000
C.    SHED                                             Rs. 50,00o
Rs.503,000
contingencies        Rs 4 7000
Total            Rs.550,000
-71



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Water Balance NSP
Krishna Water Dispute
1.        Before the middle of the nineteenth century, there was little de-
velopment of water resources in the Krishna Basin. Numerous tanks and small
diversion works were in operation, but no major work had been constructed.
The rivers of the Krishna River system rising in the Western Ghat Mountains
had plentiful supplies during the monsoon months but most of the water was
wasted to the sea. From about 1855 onwards, major irrigation works were
undertaken such as the Krishna Delta Canal system, the Kurnool Cuddapah
Canal, the Mutha Canals, the Nira Left Canal, the Vanivilas Sagar and the
Nira Right Canal. From 1918 to 1930, the Tata family constructed the Tata
Hydroelectric Works. Until the conclusion of WW II, the engineering works
for development of water resources were few in number, and the water supply
was ample in relation to demand. British India was subject to the unitary con-
trol of the Government of India (GOI) and even the Princely States were under
its paramount control. There were minor disputes relating to the Tungabhadra
waters but they were amicably settled in 1892 and 1933.
2.        Under the Government of India Act, 1935, water became an exclusive
Provincial subject and specific provisions were made for settlement of water
disputes. Before Independence, the Provinces of Madras and Bombay, the
States of Hyderabad and Mysore and a few other Princely States had riparian
rights in the Krishna Basin. The agreements of June and July 1944 provi-
sionally settled disputes concerning the sharing of the Tungabhadra waters, and
enabled the States concerned to undertake the construction of the Tungabhadra
Project, the Rajolibunda Diversions Scheme, the Bhadra Reservoir Project and
the Tunga Anicut. The Radhanagari Project and the Ghataprabha Left Bank Canal
were also undertaken before 1950.
3.        In 1950, when the Constituttion came into force, the entire Krishna
Basin fell within the territories of the States of Bombay, Mysore, Hyderabad
and Madras. There was planning at the State and national levels for intensive
development of water resources. The States of Bombay, Hyderabad and Madras
proposed important schemes for utilization of the Krishna waters, like the
Koyna, Upper Krishna, Lower Krishna, Krishna Pennar and other projects. At
an interstate conference held in July 1951 in New Delhi, a Memorandum of
Agreement was drawn up apportioning the available supply of the Krishna
River system among the four riparian States.
4.        The Memorandum of Agreement was to have settled the conflicting
claims of the riparian States with regard to the supplies of the Krishna
River system for 25 years.  But the State of Mysore refused to ratify the           72-



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Agreement, and it was inevitable that disputes regarding the validity of the
Agreement would arise. In the meantime, the Planning Commission continued
to clear projects on the assumption that the Memorandum of Agreement of 1951
was binding upon the States.
5.        Extensive territorial changes were made in the Krishna Basin by
the Andhra State Act, 1953 and the States Reorganization Act, 1956. The
new States of Bombay, Mysore and Andhra Pradesh became the riparian States
in place of the old States of Bombay, Hyderabad, Mysore and Madras. In view
of the extensive territorial changes, the then Central Water & Power Commis-
sion (presently Central Water Commission) drew up a scheme for reallocation of
the Krishna waters, but the scheme was not accepted by the States. An inter-
state conference was held in September 1960, but no settlement could be
reached. The legal existence and validity of the Agreement of 1951 was now
vigorously challenged. The State governments began to raise objections to the
clearance of new projects on the basis of the 1951 allocations.
6.        After 1951 and before September 1960, the States concerned under-
took the construction of several important major projects such as the
Nagarjunasagar, the Musi, the Tungabhadra High Level Canal Stage I, the Koyna
Hydroelectric Stage I Project, the Khadakwasla Stage I, the Ghataprabha Stage
II, the Ghod and the Vir Dam.
7.        More schemes were put forward by the State governments and their
aggregate demand was in excess of the available supplies. As the pressure
on available supplies increased, disputes increased. Objections were raised
concerning Nagarjunasagar, Srisailam and the Koyna projects.
8.        In May 1961, the Central Government appointed the Krishna Godavari
Commission and in August 1962, the Commission submitted its report. The Com-
mission found that without further data it was not possible to determine the
dependable flow accurately. They also found that the supplies available in
the Krishna Basin were inadequate to meet the demands of all the projects
put forward by the State governments. In view of the shortage, they indi-
cated procedures that should be adopted with regard to the projects under
construction and the new projects which the State governments were anxious to
undertake immediately. They put forward proposals for diversion of the God-
avari waters into the Krishna and recommended further investigation. They
also recommended that regular gauging should be carried out at key sites
on the river system.
9.        In March, 1962, the Union Minister for Irrigation and Power stated
that the Agreement of 1951 had become void; however, projects should not be
held up pending final allocation of the Krishna supplies and should be cleared
on the footing that the withdrawals of supplies by Maharashtra, Mysore and
Andhra Pradesh should not exceed 400, 600 and 800 TMC respectively. How-
ever, the States concerned did not agree to this interim allocation. In
June 1963, the Maharashtra Government asked to refer the disputes to the
Tribunal.
.73.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.       Since September 1960, the Central Government has given clearance to
several important major projects such as the Srisailam, the Tungabhadra High
Level Canal Stage II, the Upper Krishna, the Malaprabha, the Bhima, the Kukadi,
the Krishna, the Warna and the Koyna Hydroelectric projects, Stages II and III.
11.       Action also was taken on the recommendations of the Krishna Godavari
Commission. Investigations concerning suitable Godavari diversion links were
made at the technical level, but no agreed formula was arrived at. Model
experiments were conducted at research stations with a view to reconstruct the
yearly flow at Vijayawada, but the reliability of the model experiments and
the accuracy of the reconstructed flow data were disputed, and the problem of
quantitative assessment of the dependable supply remained unsolved.
12.       The Central Government tried to settle the dispute by negotiation.
Several interstate conferences were held without success. Eventually, in April
1969, the Central Government referred the dispute to the Tribunal.
13.       In view of the reorganization of States and the redistribution of
the Tungabhadra Valley between the States of Mysore and Andhra Pradesh, dis-
putes arose concerning the continuing validity of the earlier Tungabhadra
Agreements, the use, control and distribution of the Tungabhadra waters and
the management of certain existing works on the Tungabhadra. These disputes
were also referred to the Tribunal.
14.       In July 1970, the GOI at the request of the Andhra Pradesh Govern-
ment referred to the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal matters concerning the
release of waters by Mysore for the benefit of Andhra Pradesh from (1) the
Upper Krishna Project; (2) the Tungabhadra Left Bank Canal and (3) the Bhima
Project. In September 1970, matters concerning the release of waters by
Maharashtra for the benefit of Mysore from (1) a storage dam at Ajra and (2)
Koyna Project were referred to the Tribunal at the request of the Mysore
Government. On the same day, matters concerning the Agreements of 1892 and
1933 were referred to the Tribunal at the request of the Andhra Pradesh Gov-
ernment. In February 1971, the GOI at the request of the Andhra Pradesh
Government also referred to the Tribunal matters concerning the release of
water from the Tungabhadra project.
15.       In their statements of case, Maharashtra, Mysore and Andhra Pradesh
asserted the following claims to the utilization of the waters of the Krishna
River system for their existing and future projects:
State                     Gross utilization in TMC
Maharashtra                            828.70
Mysore                               1,430.00
Andhra Pradesh                       1,888.10
4,146.80
74-



ANNEX 5
Page 4
16.       In addition to the above demands, Maharashtra claimed 32.5 TMC
from regenerated flows and 70 to 80 TMC for industrial use and domestic water
supply; Andhra Pradesh claimed 120 TMC for water supply and industrial use and
Mysore stated that its demand for 1,430 TMC did not include its needs of water
for domestic and industrial uses. Obviously, there was not enough water in
the Krishna River system to satisfy all the claims of the three States.
17.        Final Order of the Tribunal (December 1973):  (Only those
portions of the Order are quoted here which are considered relevant to water
availability in the Nagarjunasagar (NSP) Project.)
Clause I
This Order shall come into operation on the date of the publication
of the decision of this Tribunal in the official gazette under Section 6 of the
Inter-State Water Disputes Act, 1956.
Clause II
The Tribunal hereby declares that the States of Maharashtra, Karna-
taka and Andhra Pradesh will be free to make use of underground water within
their respective State territories in the Krishna River Basin.
This declaration shall not be taken to alter in any way the rights,
if any, under the law for the time being in force of private individuals, bodies
or authorities.
Use of underground water by State shall not be reckoned as use of
the water of the river Krishna.
Clause III
The Tribunal hereby determines that, for the purpose of this case,
the 75% dependable flow of the river Krishna up to Vijayawada should be taken
as 2,060 TMC (58.3 billion M3 per year).
The Tribunal considers that the entire 2,060 TMC is available for
distribution between the States of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.
The Tribunal further considers that additional quantities of water
will be added to the 75% dependable flow of the river Krishna up to Vijayawada
on account of return flows and will be available for distribution between
the States of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.
Clause IV
The Tribunal hereby orders that the waters of the river Krishna
be allocated to the three States of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh
for their beneficial use to the extent provided in Clause V and subject to
such conditions and restrictions as are mentioned hereinafter.
75-



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Clause V
A.   The State of Maharashtra shall not use in any water year more than
the quantity of water of the river Krishna specified hereunder:
(i) as from the water year commencing on the 1st June next
after the date of the publication of the decision of the
Tribunal in the official gazette up to water year
1982-83                                        565 TMC.
(ii) as from the water year 1983-84 up to water year
1980-90                                        565 TMC plus
a quantity of water equivalent to 7-1/2% of the excess
of the average of the annual utilization for irrigation
in the Krishna River Basin during the water years 1975-
76, 1976-77 and 1977-78 from its own projects using 3 TMC
or more annually over the utilizations for such irrigation
ik the water year 1968-69 from such projects.
(iii) as from the water year 1990-91 up to water year
1997-98                                         565 TMC plus
a quantity of water equivalent to 7-1/2% of the excess
of the average of the annual utilizations for irrigation
in the Krishna River Basin during the water years 1982-83,
1983-84 and 1984-85 from its own projects using 3 TMC or
more annually over the utilizations for such irrigation
in the water year 1968-69 from such projects.
(iv)  as from the water year 1998-99 onwards         565 TMC plus
a quantity of water equivalent to 7-1/2% of the average
of the annual utilizations for irrigation in the Krishna
River Basin during the water years 1990-91, 1991-92 and
1992-93 from its own projects using 3 TMC or more annually
over the utilization for such irrigation in the water year
1968-69 from such projects.
B.   The State of Karnataka shall not use in any water year more than
the quantity of water of the river Krishna specified hereunder:
(i) as from the water year commencing on the 1st June
next after the date of the publication of the
decision of the Tribunal in the official gazette
up to the water year 1982-83                    695 TMC
76



ANNEX 5
Page 6
(ii) as from the water year 1983-84 up to the water year
1980-90                                         565 TMC plus
a quantity of water equivalent to 7-1/2% of the excess
of the average of the annual utilization for irrigation
in the Krishna River Basin during the water years 1975-
76, 1976-77 and 1977-78 from its own projects using 3 TMC
or more annually over the utilizations for such irrigation
in the water year 1968-69 from such projects.
(iii)  as from the water year 1990-91 up to the water year
1997-98                                         565 TMC plus
a quantity of water equivalent to 7-1/2% of the excess
of the average of the annual utilizations for irrigation
in the Krishna River Basin during the water years 1982-83,
1983-84 and 1984-85 from its own projects using 3 TMC or
more annually over the utilizations for such irrigation
in the water year 1968-69 from such projects.
(iv)  as from the water year 1998-99 onwards          565 TMC plus
a quantity of water equivalent to 7-1/2% of the average
of the annual utilizations for irrigation in the Krishna
River Basin during the water years 1990-91, 1991-92 and
1992-93 from its own projects using 3 TMC or more annually
over the utilization for such irrigation in the water year
1968-69 from such projects.
C.   The State of Andhra Pradesh will be at liberty to use in any water year
the remaining water that may be flowing in the river Krishna but there-
by it shall not acquire any right whatsoever to use in any water year
nor be deemed to have been allocated in any water year of the river
Krishna in excess of the quantity specified hereunder:
(i)  as from the water year commencing on the 1st June next
after the date of the publication of the decision of the
Tribunal in the official gazette up to the water year 1982-
83 800 TMC.
(ii)  as from the water year 1983-84 up to the water year 1989-90
800 TMC plus a quantity of water equivalent to 7-1/2% of the
average of the annual utilizations for irrigations in the
Krishna River Basin during the water year 1975-76, 1976-77
and 1977-78 from its own projects using 3 TMC or more annually
over the utilizations for such irrigation in the water year
1968-69 from such projects.
(iii)  as from the water year 1990-91 up to the water year 1997-
98 800 TMC plus a quantity of water equivalent to 7-1/2% of
the excess of the average of the annual utilizations for
irrigation in the Krishna River Basin during the water years
1982-83, 1983-84 and 1984-85 from its own projects using 3
TMC or more annually over the utilizations for such irriga-
tion in the water year 1968-69 from such projects.                      -77



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(iv)  as from the water year 1998-99 onwards 800 TMC plus a
quantity of water equivalent to 7-1/2% of the excess of
the average of the annual utilizations for irrigation in
the Krishna River Basin during the water years 1990-91,
1991-92 and 1992-93 from its own projects using 3 TMC or
more annually over the utilizations for such irrigation
in the water year 1968-69 from such projects.
D.   For the limited purpose of this Clause, it is declared that:
(i) the utilization for irrigation in the Krishna River Basin
in the water year 1968-69 from projects using 3 TMC or more
annually were as follows:
From projects of the State of Maharashtra        61.45 TMC
From projects of the State of Karnataka         176.05 TMC
From projects of the State of Andhra Pradesh 170.00 TMC
(ii)  annual utilizations for irrigation in the Krishna River Basin
in each water year after this Order comes into operation from
the projects or any State using 3 TMC or more annually shall
be computed on the basis of the records prepared and maintained
by that State.
Water Availability for the Nagarjunasagar Project
18.       Within the overall water allocation from the Krishna River to Andhra
Pradesh of 800 TMC in 1976, 264 TMC (7.5 billion M3) has been allocated to the
NSP (excluding evaporation losses from the reservoir). Present and projected
utilization of the Tribunal's water allocations in the Krishna Basin are esti-
mated as follows:
/1
All figures in TMC
Allocation as   Utilization   Proposed   Utilization
contained in    by the pro-   utiliza-   by projects
the report of   jects under   tion by    proposed
Krishna Water   operation.    projects   (under exam-
Disputes Tribu-                 under con- ination)
State             nal (Dec. 1973)                 struction                  Balance
Andhra Pradesh          800            469            314       -                17
Karnataka               695            192            313        149            41
Maharashtra             565           225             222        40              78
Total            2,060           886            849        189            136
/1   Estimates were prepared by K.C. Goyal of the Central Water Commission,
(CWC), GOI, on August 26, 1975.
78-



ANNEX 5
Page 8
19.       Only 886 TMC is being utilized at present by completed projects in
the Krishna Basin. Out of the 849 TMC allocated to projects under construc-
tion, CWC estimates that only some 200 TMC is presently being utilized. Thus,
a balance of about 974 TMC (649 + 189 + 136) which could be utilized by Andhra
Pradesh over its allocation of 800 TMC is flowing into the sea.
20.       Major projects have a construction period of at least 10 to 15 years.
Full utilization of the water allocations in projects presently under construc-
tion is therefore expected to take at least until year 1990. Even then a
balance of about 300 TMC (over the 800 TMC allocation to Andhra Pradesh) is ex-
pected to be available for use in the Nagarjunasagar projects and to areas
downstream of the dam.  With the development of upstream irrigation, return
flows also would become available for utilization by downstream consumers.
21.       In view of the above, it is apparent that considerable excess water
supplies will be available at Nagarjunasagar for the next 20 to 25 years, over
and above the allocation of 264 TMC.
Water Demand and Diversion Requirements
22.       The following assumptions were made in estimating water demand and
diversion requirements at the heads of the two main canals:
(a) Excess flows would be available at least for the next
20 years. The carrying capacity of the main irrgation
network would constrain the use of these surpluses in
kharif. In the rabi season, the constraint would be
agrotechnical, i.e. available farm power would limit
cropping intensities.
(b) The minimum water quantities ("design quantities") required
for the project are calculated on the basis of a "design
cropping pattern" which would produce an acceptable return
on the investment. These design quantities should be re-
duced, in time, with an increase in water use efficiencies.
However, for the initial project period from 1981-82 to 1995
when system efficiencies would still be very low, the design
quantities were calculated on Bank estimated values for field
requirements and conveyance and operational efficiencies.
Considerable differences exist between GOI and mission esti-
mates with regard to these values. Owing to a complete lack
of observed data, mission estimates were based on field im-
pressions and on experience in similar projects throughout
the world (FAO publication on "Crop Water Requirements,"
1975). The GOI estimates were based on data from experi-
mental plots, and on measurements of water releases at the
head of major irrigation systems (Krishna Delta Project)
without, however, any measurements of the effective use of
the water below the diversion points. As the differences
79.-



ANNEX 5
Page 9
could not be resolved (owing to this lack of observed data),
sensitivity analyses were carried out on the results using
different values for field water requirement figures to pro-
vide a range of water requirements for the design cropping
pattern. Additional water quantities, of from 35 to 50%
above the allocation of the Tribunal, would have to be made
available to the project until such time that water use effi-
ciencies can be improved sufficiently to make these additional
quantities unnecessary. Only after monitoring the existing
irrigation system for some time would a more exact estimate
of the design quantities become possible.
23.       Any water allocation to the NSP project, in excess of the "design
quantity," would be available in accordance with a reservoir rule curve and
supplied on a temporary (seasonal) basis for additional dry season crops.
Planting of dry season crops would be delayed until the quantity of water
available for use each year was established.
24.       Water requirements for the NSP Left and Right Bank command areas
were based on the design cropping patterns shown in Annex 12, Figures 1 and
2. The crops include rice (both short- and long-term varieties), groundnuts,
chillies, cotton, sorghum, pulses, oilseeds, pearl millets, minor millets and
sugarcane.
25.       Crop water requirements were computed by the Class A Pan Evaporation
method using the WATREQ computer program developed by the Bank. Average pan
evaporation and rainfall data for the Khammam, Amaravati and Rentachintla
climatological stations, which are considered to be representative of the
total project area, were used in the computations. The average of the pan
evaporation data correlated closely with interpolated data from isopleth
maps of recorded Class A pan evaporation maps in India (Annex 1, Table 1).
Effective rainfall was estimated based on an 80% chance of experiencing the
average rainfall at the three stations and using an effective rainfall table
relating to mean monthly rainfall and average monthly consumptive use prepared
by the US Soil Conservation Service. For rice crops, the additional rainfall
retention capability possible with moderate height paddy bunds was taken into
consideration, as well as the maximum depth of water desired in the rice field
during cultivation. A land preparation period of ten days was assumed for the
rice crop instead of the 20 to 30 day period normally used, since it was
assumed that the rice fields in the NSP area would be bare at the time of land
preparation, in accordance with the present situation, and time for decompo-
sition of weeds and stubble would not be needed. Soil saturation requirements
were estimated to be 51 mm (two inches). Evaporation water loss was estimated
to be 0.8 of the average evaporation during the ten day period. Percolation
losses were estimated by GOI to be 2.5 mm (0.1 inch) per day in the black
soils and 6.0 mm (0.24 inches) per day in the red soils. Flooding requirements
for rice to provide an optimum depth for cultivation after transplanting were
estimated to be 102 mm (four inches). This water also would provide for
consumptive use requirements during the last two weeks of the cultivation
period when irrigation had ceased. No water requirements for land prepara-
tion were assumed for ID crops.
80



ANNEX 5
Page 10
26.       A field irrigation efficiency of 85% was assumed for the rice crop,
not including deep percolation losses which are accounted for separately.
An average field irrigation efficiency of 65% was assumed for crops other
than rice. Canal and distributary conveyance losses (seepage and operational
losses) were estimated for each section of canal and each irrigation block
and averaged about 35% (65% efficiency) for the combined NSP Command Area.
Resultant overall project irrigation efficiencies at full project development
for rice and ID crops were estimated to be about 39% and 42%, respectively,
for an average project irrigation efficiency of about 40%.
27.       Total NSP irrigation requirements were estimated using the Bank's
AGPROJ computer program, based on the criteria and assumptions described
in Paragraphs 24 to 26.  For the irrigation requirement calculations, it was
assumed that only 90% of the project ara could be cropped, the remaining area
being taken up in roads, farmsteads, project facilities, field bunds, etc.
Accordingly, the area to be cropped in the Right Bank was reduced from
475,000 ha (1,174,000 ac) to 428,000 ha (1,057,000 ac) and the Left Bank area
was reduced from 397,000 ha (980,000 ac) to 357,000 ha (882,000 ac). Computer
printouts of water requirement calculations for each crop are shown in
Table 1, pages 1 to 13. Field irrigation requirements (in inches) at the pipe
turnouts are shown in Table 2. Total estimated requirements for each crop are
shown in Tables 3 and 4, as well as the total flow that would be carried in
the main canals during the irrigation season.
28.       The capacities of the Left and Right Main Canals, as designed and
constructed, would not be sufficient to carry the full estimated irrigation
needs for all kharif season crops during the period from August through
October. Therefore, to keep within canal capacity limitations, the project
was assumed to provide no irrigation for pulses, oilseeds and minor millets
during this period and only a partial irrigation for sorghum and groundnuts
(Tables 3 and 4). Crop yields for these crops were adjusted accordingly
(Annex 12, Table 2). Irrigation requirements for rice and sugarcane would be
fully supplied, and the water deliveries for sorghum and groundnuts would be
apportioned, within the limits available, to minimize damage to each crop.
Full irrigation water requirements would be supplied for all crops during the
rabi season. Also, it was assumed that pulse crops would be planted in the
standing rice crop, using residual soil moisture to reach maturity. The
irrigation regime assumed at full project development is shown in the fol-
lowing table:
81



ANNEX 5
Page 11
ASSUMED NSP IRRIGATION REGIME AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
(Shown as Percent Cultivable area)
Left Bank         Right Bank
Kharif (July-November)
Full irrigation                          55                60
Partial irrigation                       44                39
No irrigation                              1                1
Rabi (December-April)
Full irrigation                          40                40
On residual moisture                      12               17
Total cropping intensity           152              157
29.       Under the Bank water requirement assumptions, including irriga-
tion reductions resulting from canal capacity limitations, 196 TMC would be
required for the Left Bank and 206 TMC would be needed for the Right Bank, for
a total NSP water requirement of 402 TMC. This is 138 TMC (about 50%) more
than the combined allocation of 264 TMC for both command areas. A sensitivity
analysis to provide a range of water requirements for the design cropping pat-
tern was made using a 20% reduction in the consumptive use of rice and a 20%
and 33% reduction in percolation losses assumed for the black and red soils,
respectively. Water requirements for the Left and Right Bank resulting from
the sensitivity analysis were estimated to be about 173 TMC and 189 TMC,
respectively, or a total of 362 TMC. This is 98 TMC greater (about 35%) than
the 264 TMC water allocation. In summary, NSP irrigation water requirements
for the cropping pattern assumed by the Bank would probably be from 35% to 50%
greater than the allocation of the Tribunal.
30.       The NSP monitoring and project preparation program to be provided
by the project would supply the data necessary to determine actual project
operational efficiencies and conveyance system losses and would provide plans
and estimates for potential system modifications or improvements that could
be taken to reduce irrigation wastes throughout the system. Estimates of
improvements in conveyance and operational efficiencies that could be ex-
pected to be achieved with a project modernization program range from about
15% to 20%.
82



ANNEX 5
Page 12
Water Quality
31.       Water quality samples from Nagarjunasagar Reservoir have been
analyzed at the Andhra Pradesh Engineering Research Laboratory in Hyderabad.
The water is of good quality (specific conductivity less than 300 micromhos
per cm), though slightly alkaline (ph 7.8), and contains less than 200 ppm
of soluble salts.
April 1976
83*



ANNM 5
Table 
INDIA                                                                    Page 1
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGAT~ION ANID CAD COMPOSITE PROJEC
CROP WATER RMUINMTS
BY MO)NTH AND PERIOD (114)
RICE (Kharif) Short-Term Variety (Non-Irrig. Period Nov. 1')
JAN       FEB        MAR       APR        Nh!       JUN       JUL        AUG        SP        OCT       NOV        DEC        TOTALS
1    2    3    14    5    6    7    8    9   10  2.1  12   13  114  15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23   2)4
1dth~ reductions
EST RAIN         0.        5.        8.        15.       38.        814.     152.       127.      1140.       90.       33.        8.                in consumptive
P'AN EVAP    82.  89. 97. 13.3. 136. 150. 155. 162. 170. 1614. 14L5. 128. 115. 108. 108. 102.  91g. 84..  83.  80.  75.  73.  73.  76.               use and
pecoaton 
RICE-                  - -   -    -   -   - -   -   -    -   -   - -   -   -    -   - -   -   -    -   -   - -   -    -   -   - -   -    -   -   -Bl.ac-k  R-ed - -
CROP FACT  0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.02 1.08 1.311  1.20 1.22 1.17 0.98 0.00 0.00 0.00SiI                         2l
CONS USE      0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.  0.   0.   0.   0.  0.   0. 110. 110. 103. 101. 101.  93.   0.   0.   0.   0.             618   (1494)       94i)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              --
Land Preparation (10 days)
Saturation                                                                    36   15                                                       5      (513      (5i)
Evaporation (10 days)                                                         14    060   (18                                                                (48)
Perc.                  Black soils S 2.514 mm/day                             16   10                                                        26    (21)
~' Red soils 0 6.10 mm/day                                 40   20                                                       60               (140)
Floodi.ng for Cultivation                                                     6)4  38                                                      102    (102)    (102
Land PeEparation Total
Black Soils                                                                  155   84                                                      239
Red Soils                                                                    180  914                                                      2714
Field Peroolation
Black Soils 0 2.5)4 mm/day                                                         38  414  38   38   38   38                              231   (1814)
Red Soils 0 6.10 umm/day                                                            91   97   91   91   91   97                            558              (3714)
Total Field Water Requirements
Black -Soils                                                                 155  231  150  1)42  1140 1140  132                          1090   (900)
Red Soils                                                                    180  295  206  196  193  193  191                            11454            (1109)
Less
30% Chance Rainfall                                                            81   66   61   58   56   51   38                             4311
Effective Rainfall                                                            714  61   58   53   53   51   38                             388   (310)      (310)
Net Far. Irrig. Requ't. S T.O.
BlaLck Soils                                                                  81  170   91   90  8)4  90  914                              700   (590)
85% Fam. Irrig. Eff.                                                      97  201  107  1014  99  1014  112                            8214  (6PQ4
Red Soils                                                                    107  2314 1147  1142  1140  1)42  152                        10614             (799)
85% Farm Irrig. Lff.                                                      1214 274  173  168  165  168  180                            1252              M9O4)
Note: No irrigation in November
00            I~~~/ With 20% reduction in consumptive use and reductiorMin percolation of 20% and 33% respectively for black and red soils.



ANNEX 5
Table I
INDIA                                                                Page 2
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
CROP WATER RE4UIXNTS
BY MONTH AND PERIOD (MM)
RICE(Kharif) Long-Term Variety (Non-Irrig. Period Nov. 1)
JAN       FEB       MAR       RPR      NMA        JUN       JUL       AUG       SEP       OCT       NOV        DEC       TOTALS With reductions
1    2    3    4    5   6    7   8    9   10  11   12  13   14   15  16   17  18   19  20   21   22   23   24                   in consumptive
SST RAIN        0.        5.        8.       15.       38.       84.      152.      127.       140.      90.        33.        8.              use and
PAN EVAP    82. 89. 97. 113. 136. 150. 155. 162  170. 164. 145. 128. 115. 108. 108. 102. 91.  84. 93. 80. 75. 73. 73. 76.                      percolation     I/
____ -                                                                                                                                            _ _ _ _ _ _  _
RICE K                                                                                                                                         Black      Red
CROP FACT  0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.02 1.07 1.12 1.18 1.21 1.21 1.14 0.97 0.00 0.00 0.00             Soil       Soil
CONS USE      0.  0.   0.   0.   0.  0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   0.  0. 110. 115. 114. 107. 102. 101.  92.   0.   0.   0.   0.    7141  1593)
-__   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Land Preparation
Saturation                                                            18  18  15                                                       51   (51)       (51)
Evaporation (10 days)                                                 20   20  20'                                                     60   (48)       (48)
Perc.        it      Black soils d 2.54 mm/day                         8   8   10                                                      26   (21)
it    Red s&oils 0 6.10 mm/day                          20   20   20                                                     60              (40)
Flooding for Cultivation                                              25  38  38                                                      101  (101)      (101)
Land Preparation Total
Black Soils                                                           71  84   84                                                     239
Red Soils                                                             84   97  94                                                     275
Field Percolation
Black Soils @ 2.54 mm/day                                                  41  38   41  38   38   38  41                              275  (220)
Red Soils 6 6.10 mm/day                                                    97   91  97   91   91   91   97                            655             (439)
Total Field Water Requirements
Black Soils                                                           71  234 236  143  145  140  140 132                            1241 (1034)
Red Soils                                                             84  302  302  211  193  193  193  188                          1666            (1272)
Less
T0% Chance Rsinfall                                                      71  81   66   61  58   56   51   38
Effective Rainfall                                                    61   74  61  58   53  53   51  38                               449  (355)      (355)
Net Farm Irrig. Recm't. 0 Turnout
Black Soils                                                           10 160  175   97   91  86   89   94                             802  (67 9)
85% Farm Irrig. Eff.                                               13  188  206  114 107  102  104  112                            946  (798)
Red Soils                                                             23  229  239  152  140 140  142  150                           1215             (917)
85% Farm Irrig. Eff.                                               28 269  282  180  165  165  168  175                           1432            (1078)
Note: No irrigation in November
co                  W1/ With 20% reduction in consumptive use and reductions in percolation of 20% and 33% respectively for black and red soils.
Un
a
e   x 
N)S 
(D. H 



ANNEX 5
INDTA                                                                      Table I.
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOS'ITE PROJECT                                                 Page 3
CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS
BY mONTH AND PERIOD (MM)
GROUNDKUTS (KEARIF)
JAN          FES          MAR          APR          MAY          JUN          JUL           AUG          SEP          OCT          NOV           DEC
1     2     3      4      5     6      7     a      9    10   I11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
E-ST. RAIN           0,           5,           as          Iris         38,           84.        152.          127.         140,          90,           33,           8,
PAN EVAP          82.   89,   97, 113.  136, 150. 155, 162,  170,  164. 145, 128. 115, 108. 108. 102,   91.   84.  83,   80,   75,   73.   73.   76.
CROP FACT-  0.00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0.00 0,00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0,00 0.31 0.37 0.56 0.76 0,90 0.96 0,92 0,81 0.64 0 .0 0 0 ,0 0
CONS USE .1/       0.    Os0,0 0, 0,                   0.    0.    0, 0,9,    0      0 ,    0.,   0,   34,   40.   57.   69.   76.   80,   74,   61.   47.    0.    0.
EFF RAIN 3/        0.      t    o 0.    0. 0,          0, 0.     0, 0,  0,    0      0.    0.    0.   34,   40.   42.   46.   45,   37.   28.   18.   10.    0.    0.
OTM REG  A/        0,    o  0.  0,     0,  0.  0.    0.             0.               o 0, 0,    0   0.    0.    0, 0,    0      0.    0. 0      0.    0.    0.    0.    0.
TRR REQ  5/1       0.Z.o.              o      o0.    o.   0       .     0      ,     0      .     0     0       . 1. 2, 3. '2                   5,   43,   37.    0,    0,
Farm Irrg
ragal . 0  .6/
65% Ef'fic.                                                                                                         23.   34~.  48   '65.   69    66.   57.
TOTALS (MM)
CONS USE a    537.
EFF RAIN a    301,
IRR REQ   a    236.
Farmt Irrig.
Reqsi't. S T.O.
65% MMTi.-    363.
Note:
Discrepancies in computer 
printout due to rounding.
1/   Crop factor
2/   Consumptive use
OD3/   effective rainfall.
4/   other requirements
1)5/   Irrigation requirement
6/ Turn out



ANNEX 5
Table 1
Page 4
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CoMPOSITE PROJECT
CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS
BY MONTH AND PERIOO (Mm)
GROUNDNUTS (RABI)
JAN         FEB         MAR         APR         MAY          JUN         JUL         AUG          SEP         OCT         NOV          DEC
1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10   11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST.RAIN            0.          5,          8,         IS,          38,         84,        152.        127.         140.         90,         33.           8,
PAN EVAP         82.   89,  97. 113. 136, 19o. 15S. 162, 170, 164. 145, 128. 115, 108, 108. 102.   91,   84.  83,  80.  75,   73.  73,   78.
GRNUtS
CROP FACT    0.37 0,56 0.76 0,90 0,96 0,92 0.81 0,64 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.31
CONS USE         31.  SO.  74. 102, 130, 138. 126, 104.    0,   0,    0,   0.   0.    0,    O,    0,    0,    0.    0.    O.    0,    O.    0,  24.
EFF RAIN          1,   O0    t.    2.   3.   5.   6,   8.    O          0.   0,   o0    0,    0,    0.    0.    0,   O0    0.    0.    0.   O    0.    2.
UTH REQ           0,    0.    0,   0,   0,    o,   o0    0.    0,   o,   0,               00            0.    0.   0,   o.    0,    0.   0.    0,   0.   0,
IRR REO          O.   49,  73S. 10. IZ7. 130. 120.   96,    0,    o,    0.    o.    0.    0,    o,   0,    0,    0             . 0,   .    0,    0,    0,  22.
Farm Irrig.
Reqz't.0 T.O.
65% Effic.       46.   75.  112. 154. 195.  206.  185.  148.                                                                                                   34.
TOTALS (MM)
CONS USE a    776.
EFF RAIN :       27,
?RR REQ  =    7S1.
Farm Irrig.
Reqm't. @ T.O.
65% Effic. - 1155.
Note:
Discrepancies in computer
co      printout due to rounding.
IH UI



ANNMX 5
Table I
Page 5
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMpOSITE PROJECT
CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS
BY MONTH AND PERIOD (MM)
CHILLIES (EiARF)
JAN         FEB         MAR         APR         MAY          JUN         JUL         AUG          SEP         OCT         NOV          DEC
1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     9    tO   11    12    13    14    19    16    17    18    19   20    21    22    23    24
ZST.RAIN            0            iS,         a,         15.         s8,         84,        152.         127.        140.         90,          33.          8.
PAN EVAP         82.  89.  97, 113. 136. tSo. 15S. 162. 170. 164, 145, 128, 115, 108,  108. 102.  91.  84.  83.  80.  75.   73,  73.   76,
CHILLY
CROP FACT    0.00 0.00 0,00 0.00 0,00 o,oo 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,23 0.29 0,42 0,77 1.02 1.08 1.04 0,93 0.74 0,51
CONS USE          0., O        ,    0,    0      ij.   0,    0.    0 ,   0.    0,   0,   o.    0,  24.   25.   38,  85,  84,   86,  78.   67.  54.   39.
EFF RAIN          0,    o,    0.   0,   A,   o.    0.   o0    0,    .    o0.  o,   0.    0,  24,  25.  38,  42.  37,   30.   19.   11,   5.    2.
OTH REG           0.    0.    0     0 0, 0,    o  .   o.    0,   0,    o,    0,   0,   o.    0.    0.   0.   0,    0.   0,   0.   0.   0.   0,    0.
IRR REQ           0.    0.     ,    0,    0,    0      0                                   0   .        0.    0,    o,  23,   47,  56,  59,  S7,   49,   37,
Fam Irrig.
Requ't.0 T..
65  Wffic.                                                                                                              35.   72.  86.  91.  88.  75.  57.
TOTALS (MM)
CONS USE s   560.
EFF RAIN a   233.
IRR REQ  a   327,
Farm Irrig.
Re u't. S T.O.
65E Effic.-   503.
Note:
Discrepancies in computer                                                                                                                                  0
printout due to rounding.
CO                                                                                                                          Lm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j I



ANNEX 5
Table
Page 6
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AN~D CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS
COTTON                                           B~~ ~~~~~~~y MONTH AND PERIOD  (MM)
JAN          FEB          MAR          APR           MAY          JUN          JUL           AUG          SEP           OCT          NOV           DEC
1     2      3     4      5            7      8      9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST.RAIN              0.           5.           8.          115.          38,          84,         152.         127.          140.           90.a         33,            s.
PAN EVAP          82.   89.   97.  113.  136.  150.  159,  162. 170.  164.  145.  128. 115.  108, 108.  1o2.   91.   84,   83.   80.   75.   73.   73.   76.
CROP FACT    0.68 0.49 0.00 0,00 0,00 0.00  0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.22  0,24 0.29 0.55 0,86  1.03 1.08  1.05  0.99 0.86
CONS USE          56.   44,    0.    0,    0.       a.   0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0,0   0.    0.   24.   24.   26.   47.   71.   82.   81.   77.   72.   66.
EFF RAIN            1.    0.4   0.    0  0,    0         .    0.    0.    0.    0.o   0.    0.    o  0. 0    24.   24.   26.    0 .   36.   29.   19.   II*    S.    2.
0TH REG             0.    0.    0,    0,    0.    0.    0,    0.    0,    0.    0.    0.    0.    0,    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.
IRR  REQ    ~~~55.  44,     0       ,     0      .      ,     0      .     0       ,     .     O       .    0       .    0.      7    3. 53.  62    6.67                64
Farm Irrig.
Hequ't. S T.O.                                                                                                                            55 .   82.   95.  102.  103.   98.
65% EFfic.
TOTALS (MM)
CONS USE z    669.
EFF RAIN a    217.
IRR REQ         453.
Farm IrTig.
Requ't.O T.O.
65% Effie.=    697
Note:
O~~~~~   DiBcrepanciea in computer~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
00    Discrepancies in computer~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
"O ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~a
printout due to rounding.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
Page 7
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS
BY MONTH AND PERIOD (MM)
SORGHUM (Plant Crop).
JAN         FEB         MAR         APR         MAY          JUN         JUL         AUG         SEP          OCT         NOV         DEC
1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8     9    10   11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20   21    22    23    24
T RAIN *          0,           5,          8.         IS,         38.         84,        152,         127.        140,         90.          33,          8.
PN EVAP l,       82.  89.  97, 113, 136. 15o, 155S  162, 170. 164. 145, 128. 115. 108, 108. 102.  91,   84.  83,  80,   75.  73,  73,  7b,
SORPLT
CROP FACT    0.00 0.00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0.00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0.00 0,00 0.00 0,31 0,67 0,91 1.00 0,96 0,77 0,39 0,00 0,00 0,00 0.00
CONS USE          0,   0.   n.   0,   0,   0.    o,   0,    o.    0,   0,   0o    0.  34,   72.  93,   91.  81.  64,  31.    0,   0.    0.    0.
EFF RAIN          0,    0.    0,   0,    O. 0.    0.    0.    0.    0,   0,    0.   0.  34,  45.   48.   50,   46,  35.   25.    0.    O.    0.    0.
OTH REQ           0,       0   ,    o,    0,   0       0.    0,     , 0.    0. 0,     .         0.    0,    0.   0,   0,    0,    0.    0.    0,    0.   0,    0.
IRR REQ           0,    0.    0,    0,    0,   O,    0,    0,    0,    0,   0,    0,   0.    0,  27.   46.  40.  35.  29,    6.    0,    0.    0,    0,
Farm Irrig. Reqm't.
* T.O. 65% Effic.                                                                                      42.  71.   62.   5h.  h5.    9.
TOTALS (MM)
CONS USE       466.
EFF RAIN z    283,
IRR REG  a    183.
Farm Irrig. Reqn't.
@ T.O. 65% Effic.=282
Note:
Discrepancies in computer
printout due to rounding.
0                                                                                                                                                                  J
J



ANNEX 5
Tablel
INDIA                                                               Page 8
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS
SORGHUM (Ratoon crop).                                         BY MONTH AND PERIOD (MM)
JAN         FES         MAR          APR         MAY         JUN          JUL         AUG          SEP         OCT          NOV          DEC
1     2     3     4     5     6      7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST-RAIN            0,           S, 8,                  15,         38,          84,        1S2.        127.         140.          90,         33,           8.
PAN EVAP         82,  89,   97. 113, 136. 1S9). 159. 162. 170, 164. 145,  128.  II. 108.  108. 102.   91,  84,   83,   80.   75,   73.  73,  76.
SORRAT
CROP FACT    0.46 0,00 0,00 0.00 0,00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,00 0.00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,36 0,84 1.00 0.91
CONS USE         38,   O    0,    0.   0,    n.    0.    0.    0,   0,   o0    0.   0.    o,    0.   0.    0.    0.    0.    0.  27.   61.  73.   70.
EFF RAIN          1.    o.    0,    0,   0,   n.    0,   0.   0.    o,    0.            .          0,     . 0.    0   o,   .o   0.    0.   15.   10.    5,    2.
OTH REG           0,           0. 0,    0,         0.  0,   0,    0,    0,    0,    0.    0.    0,    0.    0, Ol   0.    0, 0    0. 0.    0,    0.
IRR REQ          37.0  0,           0,    O.    0.    0,    0.   0,    0,   0o    0.    0,    0,   o0    0,    0,    0,   0,    0.               12.   52.      67.
Farm Irrig. Reqmtt.
O T.O. 65% Effic.57.                                                                                                                         18.   80.  105.  103.
TOTALS (NM)
CONS USE *   269.
EFF RAIN a       32.
IRR REG  *   236.
Farm Irrig. Reqm't.
* T.O. 65%
=   363                                                                                                                                                 |
n
Note:
Discrepancies in computer
10     printout due to rounding.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
Page 9
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
CROP WATER REQUIREMENTS
By MONTH AND PERIOD (MM)
PULSES AND OILSEEDS (1Kharif)
JAN         FEB          MAR         APR          MAY         JUN          JUL          AUG         SEP          OCT          NOV         DEC
I     2     3     4      S     6     7     8      9    to    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST  RAIN            0.           5.          8,          t5.         38,          84.        152,         127.         140.         90,          33,           8.
PAN EVAP         82.  89.  97, t13. 1386  15o, 155. 162, 170. 164. 145.  128. 115   108. 10R, 102.  91.  84.   83,  80.  75,  73.  73.  76.
PULOIL
CROP FACT    0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,00 0.12 0.34 0.53 0.67  0.78 0.86 0,89 0.84 0.62 0.22 0.00 0.00
CONS USE          0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    O,   0,   0.    0,    0.    0.    0.  14.  37.  57.  69.  71.  72.  74.  67.  46.   16.    0.    0.
EFF RAIN          0.    O.   0,    0        0,   0.    0, 0,    0           ,   O .    0.  14.  17,  43}   44.  47,  44,  37.  27.   i7.    9.    0.    0.
OTH RFQ           0.    0.    0,    0o 0.    Os   U.   0,   0,    0,   0,   0,   0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.
IRR REQ           0.    0.    0,    0.   .n   o.    0,   0,    0,    0. 0         .    0. o   0     0.   15.  24.  24.   28.   37,  40.  30.    7.    0.    0.
Farm Irrig. Reqm't.
* T.O. 65% Effic.                                                                                         23.   37.   37.   43.   57.   62.   46.   11.
TOTALS (MM)
CONS USE a    524.
EFF RAIN =    319.
IRR REQ  a    20S.
Farm Irrig. Reqm't.
* T.O. 65%
Effic.     =    3i5.
Note:
Discrepancies in computer
xO    printout due to rounding.



ANNEX 5
Table I
INDIA                                                            Page 10
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
CROP WATER REQUIREHNTS
Br MONTH AND PERIOD (NM)
PULSES AND OILSEEDS (Rabi)
JAN       FEB       MAR       APR        MAY       JUN       JULL      AU         SEP       OCT       NOV        DEC         TOTAL
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   1      . 12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23   24
EST RAIN       0.        5.         8.       15.       38.       84.       152.      127.      140.       90.        33.        8.
PAN EVAFf   82. 89.  97. 113. 136. 150. 155. 162. 170. 164. 145. 128. 115. 118. 108. 102.  91.  84. 83. 80.  75.  73.  73i 76.
PULOIL
CROP FACT O.8f  0.90 0.84 0.46 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.27 0.53 0.70
CONS USE    69. 80.  79.  51.   0.   0.   0.   0.  0.   0.  0.   0.   0.   0.   0.  0.   0.   0.   0.   0.  0.  18.  38. 53.                    388
EFF RAIN     0.   0.  0O.      .   . .       .0.        .0.0.    . 0.    .0.   0. 0.  0. 0    0.   0    5-   3-  0                                8
IRR REQ     69. 80.  79.  51.  0.  0.  0.   0.  0.  0.   0.  0.   0.   0.  0.   0.   0.  0.   0.  0.   0.  13.  35.  53
Farm Irrig. Reqalt.
@ T.O. 65%
Effic.     106. 123. 122.  78.                                                                                          20.  54. 82
TOTALS (MM)
CONS USE  -  388
EFF RAIN  =    8
IRR RZQ  =  380
Farm Irrig.
Reqm't. 0 T.O.
65% Effic = 585
Note:
Discrepancies in computer
printout due to rounding.
o  u,



ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA                                                               Page 11
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD) COMPOSITE PROJECT
CROP WATFR REQUIREMENTS
BY MONTH AND PERIOD (MM)
PEARL MILLET (RABI)
JAN          FEB         MAR.         APR          MAY          JUN         JUL          AUG          SEP          OCT          NOV          DEC
1     2     3      4     5     6      7     8     9    10    it    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST RAIN            0.           S.           8.         15           so.          814,       152.         127.         140.          90.          33.           an
PAN EVAP         82.   89.   97.  t13.  136, t5o.  1595  162.  170.  164.  145, 128,  115. 108.  108. 102.   91.   84.   83.   80.   75.   73.   73.   76.
P MILL
CROP FACT    0.00 0.00 0.33 0.74 0.98 0.99 0.83 0.42 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0,00 0.00   ,0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 .00 0.00 oo
CONS USE           0.    0.  32.  814. 133. 149. 129.  67.    0,    0,    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0,    0.    0.    0,    0.    0.    0,
EFF RAIN           0,    0.    1.    2.    3.    4.    6.    8.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0  0.    0. o           0,    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0,
OTH REG            0.    0,    0.    0,    0,   ii,   0.    0,    0.    0.l   0.    0,    o  0.    0. 0            0,    0,    0,    0.    0,    0.    0.    0.    0,
IRRRZFQ            J.IG32              ,   3, i44.  123,   60.    0.e 0  0,              0,-0.    0,        0.    0.-  0.    0,-  0,    0.- -0.    0.   -0.    0,
Farm Irrig.
Reqm't. * T.O.
65% Effic.                    149.  126. 200.  222.  189.   92.
TOTALS (MM)
CONS USE    595,
EFF RAIN a -
IRR REGQ        96q,
Fani Irrig.
Reqm't. 0 T.O.
65% Effic.-     875
Note:
Discrepancies in computer                                                                                                                                             3:
printout due to rounding.                                                                                                                                           cg
( mi-r



ANNEX 5
Table I
Page 12
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD C(POMSITE PROJECT
CROP HATER REQUIREMENTS
BY MONTH AND PERIOD (MM)
MINOR MILLETS (KHARIF)
JAN         FEB          MAR         APR          MAY          JUN         JUL          AUG          SEP         OCT          NOV          DEC
1     2     3      4     5           7      a     9    10    it    12    13    14    15s   16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
EST. RAIN            0.          S.           8.          15.         36.          84.        152.         127.         140.         90,          33,           as
PAN EVAP         82.  69,   97. 115. 136.  1So.  155, 162. 170,  164.  145. 128. 115.  108,  106. 102.  91,  84,   83.   80.   75.  73.  73,   76.
CROP FACT    0.00 .00 0 .00 0 .00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 .00 0 .00 0 .00 Olo0.12 0.25 0.41 0.57 0.73 0,87 0.88 0.51 0,00 0.00 0.00 0.00
CONS USE           0.    0.    0.    0.    0,    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   14.   28,  45,   58.  66.  73.   73,   41.    0.    0.    0.    0.
EFF RAIN           0.    0.    on   0,    0,    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.   O0.  14.   28,   41.  43.  46,  44.   35.   26.    0*    0,    0,    0.
0TH REG            0.    0.    Os   0,    0.   Os   0.    0.    0.    0s   0*    0l O.  0.  0,    0               0,    0,    0,    0.    0.    0,   0.    0.    0.
IRR REQ            0.     ,    0       ,    0 .   0.         0.      0.        0.0,     0      0.    0     4.  16,  20W       9    38.   15        .     .    0,    0.
Farm Irrig.
Roeqm't.@ T.O.
65% Effic.                                                                                    0.    0.    6.   25.   31.  -45.   58.   23.
TOTALS (MM)
CONS USE a    3597,
EFF RAIN a    276.
IRR REQ   a    122.
Farm Irrig.
Req.' t.@T.O.
65% Eff'ic.-    188.
Note:
Diacrepancies in computer
printout due to rounaing.
Ln



ANNEX 5
INDIA                                                               Table I
Page 13
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
GROP WATER RBQUIREMENTS
BY MONTH AND PERIOD (MM)
SUGAR CANE
JAN       FEB        MAR       APR        MAY       JUN        JUL       AUG        SEP       OCT        NOV       DEC           TOTALS
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23   24
EST RAIN       0.         5.        8.        15.       38.        84.      152.       127.      140.        90.       33.         8.
PAN EVAP    82.  89.  97. 113. 136. 150. 155. 162. 170. 164. 145. 128. 115. 108. .08. 102.  91.  84. 83.  80.  75.  73.  73.  76.
SUGAR
CROP PACT 0.77 0.82 o.87 0.90 0.94 0.98 1.00 1.00 1.00 o.96 0.91 0.87 ,.83 0.79 0.75 0.70 0.58 0.52 0.52 0.57 0.61 0.65 0.69 0.74
CONS USE    64.  74. 81.  99. 135. 150. 155. 160. 175. 165. 140. 112.  91.  84. 81.  74. 51. 43. 43. 46.  46.  46. 48. 56.                       2219
EFF RAIN     0.   0.   0.   0.   0.   3.   3.   8. 10.  15.  20.  38. 46. 51.  46. 41.  36.  36.  30.  25.  15.   5.   3.   0.                    431
----------------------------------------------------------------------     ----
IR  REq     64.  74. 81.  99. 135. 147. 152. 152. 165. 150. 120.  74   45. 33.  35. 33.  15.   7.  13.  21.  31.  41. 45. 56.                    1788
Farm Irrig.
Reqn't. e T.O.
65% Effic.  98. 114. 125. 152. 208. 226. 234. 234. 254. 231. 185. 114.  69.  51.  54. 51.  23.  11.  20.  32.  48.  63.  69.  86.                2751
TOTALS (HM)
CONS USE  =  2219
hFF RAIN      1 431
IRR RE4   -  1788
Farm Irrig.
Reqw't. OT.O.
65% Effic.- 2751
Note:
Discrepancies in computer
printout due to rounding.
'.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pl
m   z
o  0



ANIDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Iritiation Requirements at the Field Turnout By Crop, Nagariunasagar Project-
(Inches of watIer p!er half mouth)
Rice             sugarcan      Chillies  Minor millets    Pearl millets        Groundnuts        Sorghum      Cotton    Puoo  & oilseeds
Rad Soils   Black Soils                            Kbarif   Rabi    Kharif   Rab i    Kharif   Rabi                                tha=if  flabi
July        1                                 .6            .3         2.8-
ii                              7.8           5.6         2.0                       - 
August      I                               11.0          8.0          2.2             -       .2                                                     1.71          -9
II                              7.0           4.4         2.0             -      1.0               1.9               0.9                 2.81                     1.5
Septemiber   1                               6.6          4.2          0.9             -      1.2               2.4               L.3                 2.4 pp        -         1.5
II                              6.5           4.0         0.5           1.4      1.8               2.2               1.9                 2.1 1.4                  L.7
October     I                                6.6          4.1          0.8          2.8       2.3               2.0               2.6                 1.8 j       2.2         2.3
II                              7.0           4.4         1.2           3.4      0.9               0.5               2.7                 O.A         322.4
November    1                                                          1.8           3.6                                          2.6                 0.71        3.7         i's
II                                                        2.5           3.5                                          2.3                 3.2         4.0           .4       .8
Decemer    I                                                           2.8           3.0                                                              4.1 f       4.1                   2.2
II                                                        3.4           2.2                                                    1.4       4.1         3.9                    3.2
January     I                                                          3.8                                                                  1.8       2.2J        3.                    4.2
II                                                        4.5                               . 7                                3.0                   2.7                    5.0
February    I                                                          4.9                              1.9               1.9              4.4                                          4.8
II                                                        5.8                              3.6               5.0               6.1                                          3.1
March       I8.0                                                                                        6.0               7.9               7.7
II                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8.9               7.9               8.7               8.1
April       I                                                          9.2                              5.5               7.5               7.3
II                                                         9.2                                               3.6               5.8
May         I                                                         10.0
II                                                         9.1
June        I                                                          7.2
II                                                        4.5
Total                                  53.1         35.0        108.0         19.9       7.4     25.6      9.0     34.6    14.3      45.6  (11.2) (14.3)  27.6           12.5     23.3
P      R
Total (assuming reductions in         40.0          29.4
consumptive use and
'.0              ~~~~percolation)
p  Plant   R - Ratoon



ANVI 5
Table 3
INDI.A
ANhDhA PRADESN IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Water Re-t.Naarunasaarih kn
Rice                       Groundnuts          Chilli..      Cotton            Sorghum           Pulses & oil-eeds    Minor          Pearl       Susar-ene        Total Water                    Total Flow
Red Soils    aBlak Soils          Kharif      Rabi                                  Plant      RAtooc                            nilleto       milletn                     Rsire-ents                 Field  -D- 6/
A.ea  (anrea)      137,700         243,200          95.100   105.700        116.300       126,00    222M000    222.000             95,100          10.500       95.100        10.000        ac-ft      ThC      compoted    adoautedb/
July         I       6,885           6,080                                                                                                                                      2,333        15,298        .67       510       3,510            5,400
II     89,505         113,493                                                                                                                                      1,667       204,665       0 8,92    6,396      6,396            9,840
Augost       1     126,225         162,133                                                             31,4501/                      7,133-1           1751/                    1,833       290,191      12.64    9,673        6,673           10,2h6
II     80,325          89,173           7,13312/                                          51,8002/                     11,8881/           8751/                    1,667       230,098      10.02    7,191        7,191           11,063
September   I       75,735          85,120          10,3032/                                          44,400-/                      11,88a2!         1,054/                       750      228,196        9.94    7,607        7,607          11,703
II     74,588          81,067          15,0582/                 13,568         4,227      38,8502/                     13,4731/         1,5751/                      417       227,775       9.92    7,593        7,593           11,682
October     I       75,735          83,093          20,6051/                 27,137        23,247     33,3101/                     18,2281/         2,0131/                       667      209,879        9.14    6,996        6,996          10,763
II     80,325          89,173          21,3981/                 32,952        33,813      7,4001/                     19,0201/           7881/                    1,000       237,263      10.34    7,414         7,414          11,406
Noveebe                                             20,605                   34,890        39,097                 12,950           14,265                                      1,500       123,307       5.37    4,110         4,110           6,323
II                                     18,228                   33,921        42,267                 59,200            3,170                                      2,083       158,869        6.92    5,296        5,296           8,148
De-ember    1                                                                29,075        43,323                 75,850                                                       2,333       150,581        6.56    5,019        5,019           7,722
1                                                 12,332        21,322       41,210                  75,850                                                       2,833       153,547        6 .69    4,798       4,798           7,382
Janoary      I                                                 15,855                      35,927                 40,700                                                       3,167        95,649       4.17    3,188         3,188           4,905
II                                                26,425                      28,530                                                                              3,750        58,705       2.56    1,835         1,835           2,823
Febotacy    I                                                  38,757                                                                                           15,058         4,083        57,898       2.52    2,068         2,068           3,182
II                                                53,731                                                                                           39,625         4,833        98,189       4.28    3,507         3,507           5,395
Macnh        1                                                 67,824                                                                                           62,608         6,667       137,099       5.97    4,570         4,848           7,458
II                                                71,347                                                                                           68,948         7,417       147,712       6.43    4,616         4,853           7,466
April       I                                                  64,301                                                                                           59,438         7,667       131,406        5.72    4,380        4,580           7,046
II                                                51,088                                                                                           28,530         7,667        87,285        3.80    2,910        3,027           4,657
May          I                                                                                                                                                                 8,333         8,333         .36      278          -               -
II                                                                                                                                                                7,583         7,583         .33      237          -
Jane         I                                                                                                                                                                 6,000         6,000         .26      200
II                                                                                                                                                                3,500         3,500         .15      177          -               _
Total         609,323        709,332           71,3273/ 401,660       192,865       291,641    135,050-/   264,550         297,323_3/          NIL        274,207        89,750    3,069,028      133.694/k
Modified total1   463,085          602,932          ------------------------------------------------------ Unchanged -------------------------------------------------------    Z,816,390    122.68                                                            *
Notet   1/  Not irrigated August-October.
2/  Canal capacity available for period shown.                                                                                                                      Total at dan  6!           205.68
3/ Water actually delivered t  crop.                                                                                                                               Modified total 6/           188.74
4/ Error doe to rounding.
3/  Inereaeieg the water deanad in Joly I and corroepondingly reducing in Agset I.  Alan, delivering the May-June
water require_ete of sugarcane into storage tanks within the coreed area, in Mach-April.
6/  A-seieg a conveyance efficienoy of 65%.
7/  Aas-asiag 20% reduction in the consunptive use of rice ple a 20% And 33% reduction in percolation loeaea for
black and red aoils, reapectively.



AMEX 4
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADEH IRRIGATION AIM1 CAD COI4OSITE PROJECT
Water Reonire,snts, Nagar umaga!     L,t Beek Command
Rice                 Grorndnuts   -       hillies   Cotton              Sor&hue            pulses & Oilseed.       Minor        Pearl    Sugarcane        Totel Water                     Total Plo.
,.Rcd       Black       Rai         Rbi.                                 Plan       R,toon        Kharif      Rabi       millets    Tillers                      RsiesnsFedDs
Area. (acres)                                       'O.0  2.0  4.90 1230             4.0              DO30    'O,80      70.6'00      132.0       4410         880        1580           8,800        a-t        TC        csu.    d.ee5
July            I                    13,670       3,087                                                                                                                                  2.053      It,I10          .82       627       4,627        7.118
1I                 177.710      57.633                                                              1/1.467    236.810                                                                           10.32    7,400         7,400      11,385
August          1                  250,617       82,333                                                       14,988                   10,040                    147                     1,613    334,563         14.57   11,152        7,152       11,003
II                 159,483      45,283      11,242 1/24,687                                                           16.550                    733                     1,467    242,162         10.55    7.567         1,567      11,642
September       1                  150,370      43,225       18,2397                                          21,160                  16.550                     880                       660    215.415          9.38    7.181        7,181       11,048
II                 148,092      41,167      23,734                    5,145       1,177      18,515 1/18.757                                  1.320                        367    195,948         8.54    6,532         6,532      10,049
October         1                  150,370       42,196      32,4787                  10,290       6.472      15,970                  25,377                   1,687                       587    209,915          9.14    6.997        6,997       10,765
II                 159,483      45,283      28,731                   12,495       9,413       3,527 1/26,480V                                    660V                      880    227,554         9.91    7,111         7,111      10.940
Novesber        I                                            32,478                   13,230      10,884                  4.118        19,860                                            1.320      81.890         3.57    2,730        2,730        4,200
II                                          28,731                   12,863      11,767                 18,827         4,413      2,940                                 1,833       81,574        3.54    2,712         2,112       4,172
Decaeber        I                                                                     11,025      12,061                 24,122                    8,085                                 3,,053     57,346         2.58    1,912         1,913       2,942
II                                                      15,435        8,085      11,472                 24,122                   11,760                                 2,493       73.367        3.70    2,293         2,293       5,528
January          I                                                       19,845                   10,002                 12,943                   15,435                                 2,787      61,012         2.66    2,034         2.034       3,129
1I                                                      33,073                    7,942                                          18,375                                 5,300       62,692        2.75      1,959       1,959       3,014
February        1                                                        48.510                                                                   17,640                    16,752       3,593      86,495         3.77    3,089         3,089       4.752
II                                                      67,253                                                                   11,393                    44.083       4,253    126,982          5.53    4,535         4,535       6,977
March            I                                                       84,893                                                                                             69,652       5,887      160,412        6.99    5,347         5,591       8,602
II                                                      89,303                                                                                             76.705       6,527    172,535          7.52    5.392         5,602       8.618
April           I                                                        80,483                                                                                             66,125       6,747    153,355          6.68    5.112         5.288       8.135
II                                                      63,945                                                                                             31,740       6,747    102,432          4.46    3,814         f~,524      5,422
May             I                                                                                                                                                                        7.333        7,333          .32      244            -            -
II                                                                                                                                                                      6,673        6,673          .29       209- 
June            I                                                                                                                                                                        5,280        5,280          .23       176           - 
II                                                                                                                                                                      3,300        3.300          .14       110- 
Total                       1,209,795    360,207       72,451    502,742        73,133      81,190      45,847    84,132         24,273    85,628         NIL        305,057       79,200  2,923.655       127.354
Moodified     l                     19 total-6                ---------919,444--------306,176----Uchngd   ----------------2,579,273----------112.35311.3
Notes:  L/  Not irrigated August-October.                                                                                                                                             Toa   t        6/
2/  Canal capacity available for period ohown.                                                                                                                               Modified total at dam- 172.85
I/ Water actually delivered to crop.
4/ Error due to rounding.
5/Increasing the water demand io July I and correspondingly reducing i. Augs.t I.  Also, delivering the May-June
w ater requirements of xugar.ane into storage tanks within the coosand area, in March-April,
6/Assuming a conveyance efficiency of 65%.
7/ Assuming 20% reduction in the con5uTtive use of rice plus a 20% and 33% reduction in percolation losses for
black and red soils, respectively.



ANNEX 6
INDIA                                                                  Table 1
ANDBRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local     Foreign       Total      Local      Foreign    Totnl   Exchange
----  (---- (Rs'000) --------      --------(US$'D00)I/ ------          %
1.  NSP Right Canal Network Infrastructure
Main Canal Earthwork                               79,000    33,900       112,900      8,770      3,770     12,540       30
Main Canal Structures                              16,400      9,100       25,500      1,820     1,010       2,830       36
Branch Canals                                      68,100    17,000        85,100     7,570      1,890       9,460       20
Distribution Systems                               70,200    12,300       82,500      7,800      1,370       9,170       15
Right Bank Drainage System                         88.000    22,000      110,000      9,780      2,440      12,220       20
Sub-Total                          321,700    94,300       416,000    35,740    10,480        46,220       23
2/
Allowance for Actual Cost Level 87J                25,500      7,500       33,000      2,840        830      3,670       23
Contingencies 20%                                  69,800    20,200        90,000     7,750      2,250      10,000       23
Engineering, Supervision & Admin.20%             1089000        -        108,000    12,000         -        12,000        0
Sub-Total                          525,000   122,000       647,000    58,330    13,560        71,890       19
2.  NSP Left Canal Network Infrastructure
Main Canal Earthwork                               98,300    42,400       140,700    10,920      4,710      15,630       30
Main Canal Structures                              52,400    28,000        80,400      5,820     3,110       8,930       35
Branch Canals                                      58,600    10,800        69,400      6,510     1,200       7,710       16
Distribution Systems                               61.900    11,000       72,900       6,880     1,220       8,100       15
Left Bank Drainage System                         149,600    37,000      186,600    16,620       4,110      20,730       20
Sub-Total                          420,800   129,200       550,000    46,750    14,350        61,100       23
Allowance for Actual Cost Level 87%-               33,700    10,300       44,000       3,750     1,150       4,900       23
Contingencies 20%                                  90,500    28,500      119,000    10,050       3,170      13,220       24
Engineering, Supervision & Admin. 202             143,000       -        143,000    15,890          -       15.890        0
Sub-Total                          688,000   168,000       856,000    76,440    18,670        95,110       20
3.  Operation & Maintenance Equipment                  22,050    67,500        89,550      2,450      7,500       9,950       79
4.  NSP Road Program
Rehabilitation of Existing WBM Roads               15,300      3,600       18,900      1,700       400       2,100       19
Improvement of Earth Roads                         28,800      5,000       33,800     3,200         550      3,750       15
Construction of New Roads                          53,000    10,800       63,800      5,890      1,200       7,090       17
Sub-Total                           97,100    19,400       116,500    10,790       2,150      12,940       17
Contingencies 15%                                  14,600      2,900       17,500      1,620        320      1,940       17
Engineering, Supervision & Admin.                  16,000       -          16,000      1,780        -        1,780        0
Sub-Total                          127,700    22,300       150,000    14,190       2,470      16,660       15
5.  Road Construction Equipment                         9,000      4,500       13,500    1000          500       1,500       33
6.  Command Area Development
Pochampad Project (33,600 ha)                      40,500      9,900       50,400     4,500       1,100      5,600       20
NSP Right Bank (16,000 ha)                         18,600      5,400       24,000      2,070        600      2,670       23
NSP Left Bank (16,000 ha)                          18,600      5,400       24,000      2,070        600      2,670       23
Tungabhadra HLC (6,400 ha)                          7,800      1,800        9,600        860        200      1,060       19
Sub-Total                           85,500    22,500       108,000      9,500      2,500      12,000       21
Engineering, Supervision & Admin.                  45,000       -         45,000       5,000        -        5,000         0
Sub-Total                          130,500    22,500       153,000    14,500       2,500      17,000       15
7.  CAD Equipment                                       5,400      1,800        7,200        600        200         800       25
8.  Extension Services                                 18,500      2,800       21,300      2,060        310       2,370       13
9.  Extension Service Vehicles                          2,250        900        3,150        250        100         350       29
10. Monitoring Project Performance
a) NSP Irrigation System Study
Gauging Stations                              17,000        450       17,450      1,890         50       1,940        3
Measuring Equipment                               450     8,900         9,350         50        990      1,040       95
Model Monitoring Program                         2,800        800        3,600        310         90        400       23
Sub-Total                            20,250    10,150        30,400      2,250      1,130      3,380        33
b) Modernization Studies & Plans                    1,900        350        2,250        210         40         250       16
c) Monitoring Project Benefits                      6,100      1.100        7.200        680        120         800       15
Sub-Total                            28,250    11,600        39,850      3,140      1,290      4,430        29
11. GOI, Project Preparation and Evaluation              -           450          450        -           50          50        0
Group
SUB-TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        1,556,650   424,350   1,981,000   172,960    47,150    220,110             21
Expected Price Increases3/                        540,350   151,650       692.000    60,040    16,850        76,89        22
TOTAL PROJECT COST                2.097.000   57.000 2, 673,000   23.00                       297.000       22
1/ Indian Rupees 9.00 = US$1.00.
2/ Cost allowance to increase Engineers Cost Estimates to  revailing contractor bid prices.
3/ Based on Annex 6 Table 7.
100



AiJN Eg 6
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA P3A1~ES{ IRRIGATI-ONUAD- CAD COI'4OSITE PP.ThTC.T
NAGARJUNASAGAR PROJECT RIGHT CANAL NET.RIC INFBASTPUCTUTRE
Cost Estimate-/
Local        Foreign      Total
-L.________(Rupee s '000) -     -----
1. Right Canal Earthwork
(a) Mile 86/0 to 88/0                    5,500         2,400        7,900
(b) Mile 94/0 to 99/6                    16,500        7,000       23,500
(c) Mile 100/3 to 105/6                 15,600         6,700       22,300
(d) Mile 108/3 to 121/7                 34,700        15,000       49,700
(e) Mile 124/0 to 126/0                  6,700         2800         9,500
Sub-Total                      79,000        33,900      112,900
2. Right Canal Structures Mile 86/0 to 110/0
(a) Bridges (8)                           2,500        1,600        4,100
(b) Regulators (48/0, 101/7,110/0) (3)   3,600         2,000        5,600
(c) Off Take Sluices (Turnouts) (15)        300          100          400
Sub-Total                        6,400        3,700       10,100
3. Right Canal Structures Mile 110/0 to 126/0
(33)    10,000        5,400       15,400
4. Pamidipadu Branch Canal                        5,600        1,400         7,000
5. Darsi Branch Canal                            35,500        9,000        44,500
6. Ongole Branch Canal                           27,000        6,600        33,600
7. Irrigation Distribution Systems
(a) Block 15 Irri,.System (26,560 Ac)     6,800        1,200        8,ooo
(b) Block 16   "     "   ( 5,640 Ac)      1,200          200        1,400
(c) Block 17   "     "   (11,010 Ac)      3,600          600        4,200
(d) Block 18   "     "   (18,000 Ac)      2,900          500        3,400
(e) Block 19   "     "   (60,520 Ac)    15,300         2,700       18,000
(f) Block 20   '         ( 7,170 .Ac)    1,800           300        2,100
(g) Block 21   "     "   (19,560 Ac)      7,000        1,100        8,100
(h) Block 22   "     "  (168,610 Ac)    31,600         5,700       37,300
Sub-Total                       70,200       12,300       82,500
8. Right Bank Drainage System (347,100 Ac)       88,000       22,000       110,000
Right Canal Infrastructure Total             321,700        94,300      416,ooo
Cost Increase above Engineers Estimates
(8%)      25,500        7,500       33,000
Contingencies (20%)                           69,800       20,200        90,000
Engineering Supervision & Administration
(20%)    108,000          -         108,000
Total                          525,000      122,000       647,000
Cost per hectare (140,000 ha)                                       us $462.00
1/ Jan 1976 Lost Level
101.



ANNEX 6
Table 3
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NAGARJUNTSAGAR PROJECT LEFT CANAL NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE
Cost Estimate_/
Local        Foreign       Total
--(Rupees '000)---
1. Main Branch Canal Deep Cut (M5/4+052)          17,600         7,600        25,200
2. Main Branch Canal Earthwork
(a) Mile 10/6 to 19/0                     12,600        5,400        18,000
(b) Mile 19/0 to 47/3                     35,100       15,000        50,100
(c) Mile 47/3 to 76/0                     33 000       14 400        47 400
Sub-Total                                      34,b            ,
3. Left Canal Regulators (M 11/0 & 34/0)           2,300         1,300         3,600
4. Main Branch Canal Structures
(a) Aqueducts (8)                         11,800         6,300       18,100
(b) Under Tunnels (44)                    28,200       15,000        43,200
(c) Siphons & Superpassages (13)           3,000        1,500         4,500
(d) Bridges (28)                           2,400         1,400        3,800
(e) Regulators (M 8/6,19/4,43/5 & 76/o)  4,300          2,300         6,600
(f) Off Takes & Sluices (Turnout) (42)       400           200          600
Sub-Total                       50,100        26,700        76,800
5. Bonakal Branch Canal                           29,000         5,400        34,400
6. Madhira Branch Canal                           10,200         2,000        12,200
7. Nuzividu & Mylavaram Branch Canal              19,400         3,400        22,800
8. Irrigation Distribution Systems
(a) Block 20 (98,280 ac)W/O Bonakal
Canal            3,700           600         4,300
(b) Blocks 21/1-21/6 (1'5,420 Ac)         19,000        3,500        22,500
(c) Blocks 21/7-2110 (2:Ll,OOO Ac)        32,600         5,700       38,300
(d) Block 21/11  (37,000 Ac)               6,600         1.200        7,800
Sub-Total                     61,900        11,000        72,900
9. Left Bank Drainage System (471,700 Ac)        149,600        37,000       186,600
Left Canal Infrastructure Total               420,800       129,200       550,000
Cost Increase above Engineers Estimates
(8%)       33,700        10,300        44,000
Contingencies (20%)                            90,500        28,500       119,000
Engineering, Supervision & Administration
(20%)     143,000           -        1432000
Total                        688,000       168,000       856,ooo
Cost per hectare (191,000 ha'                                       US $U448.00
11 Jan 1976 Cost Level
102



ANNEX 
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COKPOSITE PROJECT
Monito ring Project Performance
Cost Estimate
Local     Foreign      Total
(US$ 'O000)
1. NSP Irrigation System Study
a. Gaging Stations (730)
Site preparation                             1,080       15         1,095
Well installation                              360        5           365
Piping, fittings, etc.                          55       20            75
Sub-Total                             i,495        40        1,535
Contingencies 15%                              224        6           230
Engineering & Supervision 10%                  171        4           175
Sub-Total                                                   l 914
b. Measuring Equipment
Digital Recorder, complete (1000 units)@800   20        780            800  ICB
Digital Recorder, spares (50 units)              -       40            4h  ICB
Translator w/Time & Data Consol (key punch)    -         10             10  ICB
Streamflow meters and equipment                30        -              30  ICB
Sub-Total                              -0-       0             Bo  ICB
Spare parts 15%                                  0      130            130  ICB
Insurance and freight                            0       30             30  ICB
Sub-Total                               0                    70    ICB
c. Water Measurement Program-.
Program personnell/                            150       -            150
Consulting services (8 man-months)              -        40            40
Vehicles & office equipment 3/                 120        4o          160 RP & LCB
Model preparation & computer interfacing        40        10           50
Sub-Total                              310       90           4oo
2. Modernization Studies and Plans  (lump sum)         210        40          250
kincluding consulting serviceq of six man months)
3. Monitoring Project Benefits-       (lump sum)       68O       120          800
Total Program Cost                 3,i4o    1,290         4,430
1/ 3 year Monitoring Program
2/ Based on Annex 6, Table 5                                                     103
i Based on Annex 7, Table 4
4/ 4 year Monitoring Program



ANNEX 6
Table 5
IlDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Monitoring Project Performance
NSP Irrigation System Study Personnel
Cost E8timate
Man Cost 21/ Total
Quantity   Years Man Yr   Cost
---(US$'ooo)---
Executive Engineer                           1        3      2.1      6
Assistant Engineer                           2        6      1.7     10
Junior Engineers                            10       30      1.3    39
Hydrological Technicians                    20       60      1.1    66
Office Staff                                12       36      0.8     29
Total                                                      150
1/ Includes costs of supplementary benefits.
104



ANNEX 6
Table 6
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Extension Services Cost Estimate
Extension Area
NSP Left NSP Right Pochampad Tungabhadra
Canal     Canal      Project    H.L.Canal    Total
---------------- -(Rs'OOO))- -e - ---- -     --
Area Covered ('000 ha)             35f7      475           103          95      1,030
1l  Capital Costsa
Office apace                       550       320          270          300      1,1440
Housing                            350       190          170          190        900
Extension equipment                300       230          100          150        780
Contingencies 15%                  180       110           80           90       1460
Sub-Total                1,380        850          620          730      3,580
2. Salaries and Allowances
Additional staff salaries        2,250     1,440        1,380          680      5,750
Plus  special allowance
(all staff)             1,130     1,230           700         400       3,1460
Contingencies                     -9        I4O0          100          130      1,020
Sub-Total                3,770      3,070        2,180       1,210      10,230
30 Other Operational Costs
Jeeps                              420       410           290         240      1,360
Motorcycles                        130        90            90          40        350
Bicycles                            50        60            40          10        160
Maintenance & rents              1,200       170           300         290      1,960
Extension activities               600       500          150          150     11400
Training abroad                    600       400           150         140      1,290
Sub-Total                3,000      1,630        1,020          870      6s520
Contingencies 15%                  450       240          150          130        970
Sub-Total                3s,450     1,870        1,170        1,000      7,1490
Total Extension Services
Costs (Rs t000)       8 ,600     5,790        3,970       2,9940     21,300
Total Extension Services
Costs (uS$'ooo)         960        640          440         330       2,370
1/ Not including costs of vehicles listed in )m = 6. l&.5.
105



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Expected Price Increses
Calendar Year                           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981       Total
1. Civil Works US$'000                        19,970   42,o0o  44,400  40,200  36,000  18,000   200,660
Annual Inflation Rate %                      9        12      12      12       10      10
Expected Price Increases US$'OO0           1,350    6,540  13,100  17,880  21,870  13,090    73,830
2.  Equipment & Services US$1000                 490   15,430   1,450   1,050       74n     290    20,340
Annual Inflation Rate %                       9        8       8       8        7       7
Expected Price Increases US$'000               30    1,930     320      330     310     l1o      3,17.
Total US$000                      20,460   57,520  45,850  41,250  36,740  18,290   220,110
Expected Price Increases US$1000           1,380    8,470  13,420  18,210  22,180  13,230    76,890
J/ Calculated by canpounding the estimated rate of price increase in prior year(s) and
one half the rate of increase in the year concerned.A rate of 9% was used for 1976
to reflect the much lower predicted inflation rate in India in that year for local costs.
0
0*'



ANNEX 7
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CCKPOSITE PROJECT
Equipment for Operation and Maintenance
Unit   Total
Quantity             Coat   Cost
Right lef t
Dam  Bank    Bank  Total  --(US$to000)_
1. Maintenance Equipment
Tractor, crawler 140 hp                     1    3       3       7    72     504 ICB
Tractor, crawler 75 hp                           5       4       9    37     333 ICB
Crane, crawler 25T                          1                    1   125     125 ICB
Crane, wheeled 5T                           1    2       2       5    60     300 ICB
Excavator, crawler dragline 1 cu yd              5       4       9   110     990 ICB
Backhoe, crawler 0.75 - 1 cu yd                  1       1       2    90     180 ICB
Loader, crawler 130 hp 2 cu yd              1    5       4      10    56     560 ICB
Loader, wheeled 80 hp 1.5 cu yd             2   10       8      20    35     700 ICB
Grader, motorized 125 hp                    1    3       3       7    55     385 ICB
Grader, motorized 60-75 hp, lightduty           10       8      18    27     486 ICB
Scraper, elevating 150 hp 11 cu yd               2       2       4    70     280 ICB
Roller, sheepsfoot towed                         5       4       9    20      180 RP
Roller, road lOT diesel                     1    5       4      10    20     200 RP
Truck, tractor w/25T trailer                1    2       2       5    55     275 ICB
Truck, tractor w/12T trailer                1    5        4     10    35      350 ICB
Truck, stake 6T                             5   15      12      32    12     384 RP
Truck, dump 6-8 cu yd                       5   15      12      32    15     480 RP
Truck., water 8T                            1    5       4      10    20     200 RP
Truck, mobile lub shop                           1       1       2    50     100 ICB
Truck., fuel                                1    1       1       3    20      60 RP
Truck, forklift                             1    1       1       3    20      60 RP
Tractor, industrial w/backhoe loader             5       4       9    25     225 RP
Mixer, concrete 10/7 cu ft                  2   10        8     20     3       60 RP
Vibrator, concrete                          3   15      12      30    0.5      15 LCB
Compressor, diesel 160 cfm                  2    5       4      11     8      88 LCB
Generator, portable 15 kw                        5       4      9      8      72 LCB
Launch                                      1                    1    18      18 RP
Misc. pumps & other equipment                                         iS     1oo LCB
Workshop equipment                                                    LS/   y    150 RP
Communication net work                                                i' y  yS  250 ICB
Photographic & other equipment                                        L 2  LS  30 LCB
Sub-Total                                                      8,14o
2.  Project Management 
Automobiles                                 3    1       1       5     5      25 RP
Jeep, wagon 4 x 4                           3    5       4      12     8\     96 RP
Jeep, 4 x 4                                12   20      16      48     6     288 RP
Pickup, 3/4T 4 x 4                          2    5       4      11     8      88 RP
Bus, mini 20 seat                           1                         18      18 RP
Sub-Total                                                        5X5
Spares 15%                                                                 1,295
Total Cost Operation & Maintenance Equipment                              9,950
y1_uomaon use
2/ Including office of Chief Engineer                                               107



ANNEX 7
Table
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Road Construction Equipment
Items                             Quantity          Unit Cost           Total Cost
-----(US$ iooo) ---------
Roller, road 8/10T diesel            4O                 20                 800 RP
Truck, dump 6/8 cu  yd  diesel        6                 15                  90 RP
Truck, pickup 3/T Lx4                 4                  8                  32 RP
Jeep, 4x4 (inspection)               26                  6                 156 RP
Mixer, concrete diesel 10/7 cu ft   30                   3                  90 RP
Vibrator, concrete gasoline          12                0.5                   6 LCB
Equipment, vehicle workshop                            L.S.                 60 LCB
Equipment, survey, materials
testing and office                                    L.S.                 66 LCB
Sub-total                                                  1,300
Spare parts 15%                                                         200
Total cost of Road Equipment                                        1,500
108



AN NEX7
Table 3
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CCMPOSITE PROJECT
Equipment for Command Area Development
Items                              Quantity      Unit        Total
Cost       Cost
1. Land Leveling Equipment
Cultivator                              400        0.35          140   LCB
Disc plough                             4O0        0.35          140   LCB
Multipurpose blade terracer             400        0.35          140   LCB
Pumps and piping                       Total       L.S            40   LCB
Sub-Total                                                 460
2. Vehicles for Supervision & Management
Automobile                               10        5              50  Rp
Station wagon                             4        7.5            30   RP
Pickup 3/4T 4 x 4                         8        8              64   RP
Jeep 4 x 4                               16        6              96  RP
Sub-Total                                                 240
Spare parts 15%                                                  100
Total Cost CAD Equipment                                         800
109



ANNEX 7
Table 14
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CaKPOSITE PROJECT
Vehicles & Office Equipment for NSP Monitoring Program
Unit   Total
Items                             ~~~~~~~Quantity   Cost    Cost
Items                                                       _        -(US$'OOO) -
1. Vehicles
Pickup, 3/4T 4 x 4                               2          8       16  RP
Jeep, wagon 4 x 4                                4          8       32  RP
Jeep, 4 x 4                                     10          6       60  RP
Sub-Total                                                  108
2. Office Equipment                                              IS      30 LCB
Spare parts 15%                                                      22
Total Cost Vehicles & Office Equipment                               16o
110



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CCKPOSITE PROJECT
Extension Service Vehicles
Quantity
NSP Left  NSP Right   Pochampad   Tungabhadra             Unit   Total
Canal      Canal       Project     Project        Total  Cost   Cost
Itemns-                                                                                 --
--(US$fooo)--
Jeeps, 4 x 4                             17          17           11           6          51       6      306 Hp
Spare Parts 15%                                                                                             46
Total Extension Services Vehicles Cost                                                                    350
MF 
F .



ANNEX 7
Table 6
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Equipment Cost Summary
Expected
I'temized   Spare                   Price
Cost    Parts       Sub-total  Increases  Total
_.__________----- (US$V000)-
International Competitive Bidding
Operation & maintenance equipment    5,818        872        6,690
Monitoring equipment                                         1,040
Sub-Total                                           7,730        940      8,670
Reserve Procurement
Operation & maintenance equipment    2,532        378        2,910
Road construction equipment            1,168      177        1,345
CAD equipment                            240       30          270
Monitoring equipment                     108       17           125
Extension equipment                      306       44          350
Sub-Total                                           5,000        610      5,610
Local Competitive Bidding
Operation & maintenance equipment        305       45           350
Road construction equipment              132       23           155
CAD equipment                            460       70           530
Monitoring equipment                      30        5            35
Sub-Total                                           1,070         130     1,200
Total Cost                                         13,800       1,680    15,480
112



ANMTaX 8
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Schedule of EXpenditures
Total               Bank Fiscal Year
Item                Cost      1977     1978      1979     1980     1981
-------------------(US $ Million)-----------------
NSP Right Canal Network            49.9      11.0      9.7      9.7      9.8       9.7
NSP Left Canal Network             66.o      13.9     13.9     13.2     12.5      12.5
NSP Road Program                   12.9       1.1      2.5      3.1      3.1      3.1
On-Farm Development (CAD)          12.0       2.6      3.9      5.5        0        0
Sub-Total                    140..8    28.6     30.0      31.5     25.4     25.3
Physical Contingencies        25.1       5.2      5.2      5.0      4.9      4.8
Expected Price Increases      61.4       3.2      7.9     13.5     16.1     20.7
Sub-Total                    227.3     37.0      43.1     50.0     46.4    50.8
Vehicles & Equipment                13.8     10.0      3.8        0        0         0
Expected Price Increases        1.7      1.1      o.6        0        0         0
Sub-Total                      15.5     11.1      4.4        0        0         0
Extension Services                   2.04 .4           0.4      0.4      0.6       0.6
Monitoring Programs                  3.3      0.8      1.3      1.0      0.1       0.1
Administration & Engineering       34.7       7.3      7.6      8.2      5.7      5.9
Sub-Total                     40.4       8.5      9.3      9.6      6.4       6.6
Expected Price Increases      13.8       o.8      2.0      3.4      3.3       4.3
Sub-Total                     54.2       9.3     11.3     13.0      9.7      10.9
Total Project Cost                 297.0    57.4      58.8     63.0      56.1     61.7
113



ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Loan
Proposed Allocation       % of Expenditures
Category                            of the Loan               to be Financed
(US$ Million equiv.)
(l) Civil Works
(a) NSP Canal Network                   95.0                      60%
(b) NSP Gauging Stations                 1.3                      60%
(c) NSP Road Program                    11.0                      60%
(d) CAD                                 10.0                      66%
(2) Equipment, Vehicles and
Materials 1/
(a) NSP Operation and                                )    100% of foreign ex-
Maintenance                          7.9         )    penditure for direct-
)    ly imported goods
)
(b) Monitoring Equipment                 1.2         )    100% of exfactory
)    cost for locally
(c) NSP Road Program                     0.1         j   manufactured goods
)
(d) CAD Program                          o.4         )    70% of cost for
)    imported goods
procured locally
(3) Consultancy Services                     0.1         )    100% of foreign
(4) GOI, Project Prep. & Evaluation Group   0.05        )    expenditures
(5) Unallocated                              17.95
Total                  1.0
/ Excluding materials financed under Category 1.
*114



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                        US $ Million Equivalent
an'd Semester                          Semester    Cumulative
1977
1st
2nd                                  15           15
1978
lst                                  15           30
2nd                                  15           45
1979
lst                                  15           60
2nd                                  15           75
1980
1st                                  15           90
2nd                                  15          105
1981
1st                                  15          120
2nd                                  12          132
1982
1st                                   8          140
2nd                                   5          145
115



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Organization and Management of NSP Irrigation
and Road Infrastructure Works
Organization
1.        Jurisdiction for the Nagarjunasagar Irrigation Project (NSP) rests
with the Irrigation Department of the State of Andhra Pradesh, under the
direction of the Minister of Irrigation. The GOAP and GOI allocate funds for
irrigation development on a yearly basis in accordance with State and national
priorities. The project is high on the priority list for early completion, in
line with the Government's plan for accelerated development of the irrigated
agricultural potential of the country. The NSP engineering office was or-
ganized and staffed in the early 1950s and construction of the project was
initiated in 1955.
Management
2.        Overall responsibility for design and construction of the NSP rests
with the Chief Engineer, NSP, under the Secretary for Irrigation and Power.
Day-to-day responsibility for project completion is delegated to Superintend-
ing Engineers supervising design or construction Circles located in the vari-
ous regional offices throughout the project area. The present NSP organiza-
tion for design and construction consists of one design and one mechanical
Circle located at Hill Colony (Nagarjunasagar Dam), two construction Circles
on the Right Bank located at Karempudi and Pellur, and two construction
Circles located on the Left Bank at Tekulapally and Jaggayyapeta. Two addi-
tional Circles are being established in the lower parts of the command area,
one at Kurichedu on the Right Bank and one at Madhira on the Left Bank. Each
Circle is comprised of from three to five divisions, each headed by an Execu-
tive Engineer, and each division is staffed by from three to six Assistant
Engineers and 10 to 27 Junior Engineers (Chart No. 15673).
Construction Implementation
3.        Stage I of the NSP is scheduled for completion by 1981.  The area
under irrigation command at the completion of Stage I would total 2,150,000 ac
-- 1,170,000 ac on the Right Bank and 980,000 ac on the Left Bank. Irrigation
distribution and drainage facilities for 347,000 ac on the Right Bank and
471,000 ac on the Left Bank included in the Bank project would be completed by
Irrigation Blocks as shown on the implementation schedule (Chart 15671).
Stage II of the NSP, to expand the irrigation and drainage facilities to serve
land lying below the Stage I area, is not scheduled for implementation before
year 2000.
116



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        Surveys, designs, specifications and tender documents for the Bank
project would be prepared by the NSP engineering staff for sections of the
main canals, structures, and Irrigation Block distribution systems in accord-
ance with schedules established by the Chief Engineer. All construction work
would be accomplished by contract in accordance with Bank approved procedures
for LCB or ICB practices. Construction inspection would be provided under
supervision of representatives of the Chief Engineer in the respective
construction Circles.
Operation and Maintenance
5.        Operation and maintenance of the entire NSP irrigation and drainage
system would be controlled by three Circles under the direction of the Chief
Engineer (Chart 15672). One Circle would be responsible for operation of the dam,
with separate divisions for regulation of water flows, maintenance of equip-
ment, and maintenance of services including the camp. Operation and maintenance
of the Right Canal irrigation and drainage network would be performed by one
Circle located at Narasaraopet, with five divisions (one yet to be established)
in various parts of the Right Bank command area. Operation and maintenance of
the Left Canal network would be the responsibility of a Circle located at Kham-
mam, with water regulation and maintenance duties delegated to four divisions
(two yet to be established) in specific areas throughout the command area.
6.        Water delivery requirements would be determined at the divisional
level and correlated with the Superintending Engineers for the Right and Left
Bank command areas. The allocation of available water supplies to the sep-
arate command areas would be the responsibility of the Chief Engineer. Close
coordination between extension service personnel and project operation and
maintenance of the dam, main canals, distributary irrigation system and proj-
ect drainage facilities to the pipe (or chak) level would be the responsibility
of the Irrigation Department through the project operation and maintenance or-
ganization. Water distribution and maintenance of on-farm works below the
pipe turnouts would be the responsibility of the Pipe Committees under the
instruction and supervision of the Irrigation Officers. Each division would
be responsible for operating and maintaining irrigation facilities serving
about 97,000 ha (240,000 ac), subdivided at the Junior Engineering respons-
ibility level into units of 4,000 to 6,000 ha (10,000 to 15,000 ac).
Operation and Maintenance Equipment
7.        Although construction of the NSP canals, distributaries and drains
would be accomplished principally by labor-intensive methods, proper opera-
tion, maintenance and repair of the extensive irrigation and drainage system
complex would require a full range of modern equipment. Motor vehicles,
motor bikes and telecommunication or a radio control system would be required
for effective control and delivery of project water supplies, and heavy duty
equipment would be required to maintain the project drainage system and effect
emergency canal repairs. Construction equipment remaining in good (usable)
condition after completion of project facilities would be retained for 0 & M
use. Existing equipment and the new 0 & M equipment to be provided with the
project (Annex 7, Table 1) would be located at the various 0 & M Divisional
offices and workshops.
117



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Monitoring Project Performance
8.        An independent Circle would be set up to conduct the NSP monitoring
and project modernization studies. The Circle would have responsibility for
setting up an extensive digital recorder monitoring system to determine irri-
gation efficiencies and losses of the NSP irrigation network and would determine
possible modifications or additions to the existing system that could be made
to improve system operation effiencies significantly.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
9.        The operation and maintenance costs for the NSP are estimated to be
about Rs 85 per ha or about US$ 9 50 per ha (Table 1).
Roads
10.       The GOAP has appointed t:he R & B Division (PWD) to act as sole
executing agency for the construction and maintenance of project roads.
Selection of the roads to be included in the project was made jointly by the
CAD Department and R & B. Funds i-or the program would be controlled by the
CAD Department. Strengthening of the existing R & B organization would be
necessary to deal with the prograni effectively. As Andhra Pradesh has a
surplus of qualified engineers, recruitment of suitable staff would pose
no problem. The existing materials laboratory at Guntur, which is well
equipped and staffed by qualified engineers, is capable of handling all
materials selection and quality control work necessary for the project.
II.       The R & B Circle to be set up under the project would have its
headquarters within the command area and would compromise up to six divisions,
each of which would control three or four Sub-Divisions. The Circle would be
headed by a Superintending Engineer, reporting to the Chief Engineer R & B
who, in turn, would be responsible to the Secretary, CAD, for the execution of
the road program. The Chief Engir,eer would have a small coordinating unit for
the project within his headquarters which would be supervised by an Assistant
Engineer. Each division would be run by an Executive Engineer and each
subdivision by an Assistant Engineer supported by juniors, supervisors and
all necessary other grades of staff. All engineers would be professionally
qualified. The Circle would have the task of all survey, design, preparation
and supervision of contracts and of quality control. For necessary assistance
with pavement design and quality control, the Circle would have direct access
to the existing materials laboratcry at Guntur, which is capable of undertak-
ing the required materials selection and works acceptability testing. The
proposed organization of the CAD road Circle is shown in Chart 15669.
April 1976
118



ANNEX 9
Table 1
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NSP Operation and Maintenance Cost Estimate
Annual Cost
(Rs '000)
A. NSP Irrigation and Drainage System
1. Administrative and Operating Personnel
a. Salaries (3,500 personnel)                                   18,000
b. Traveling expenses                                              800
c. Benefits                                                      2,700
d. Casual labor                                                  ?2500
Subtotal Personnel Costs                                 24,000
2. Materials and Supplies                                           3,000
3. Building Maintenance                                             2,000
4. Equipment                                                       10.000
Subtotal Irrigation and Drainage System                  39,000
Cost/ha   Rs 45         or     US$5.00
B. Below Pipe Turnouts (Paid by Farmers)                        Cost/ha (Rs)
1. Neereddi/Neergunti (wages/season)                             30
2. Additicnal labor (2 man-days)                                 10
Subtotal                                                  70
Total operation and maintenance cost/ha Rs 85 or US$9.50
119



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Proposed Organization for Operation & Maintenance - Nagarjunasagar Project
|    CHIEF ENGINEER
872,000 H ECTAR ES
12.154.000I ACRESI
SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER                                       SUPERINTENDING ENG INEER
SUPERINTENDIN G ENGI                         ~~~~~~LINUGAMGUNTLA AEGIO0N                                     MIRYALGUDA REGION
D A M                                                RRIGHT CANAL NETWOHK                                           LEFT CANAL NETWORK
475,000 HECTARES                                              397.000 HECTARES
(1,174,000 ACRES)                                             (980,000 ACRES)
FXF~~~~~_44,~C~~4 I\FFIIIFFFIVI
_ DAM DIVISION     nWITH 1JN[FC!! ENGINEERS               MACHERLA DSTRVCT        VWITH 17 JUNIOR ENGINE'ERS           MIRYALAGUDA DISTRI`CT     WITH 17JUNIOR ENGINEERS
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER        4 ASSISTATENNEERS                  EXECUTIVE ENGINEER    L 4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS         l       EXECUTIVE ENGINEER    | 4   ASSISTANT ENGINEERS
S  & R (SERVICESI DIVISION  |    WITH 17JUNIGH ENGINFERS |     jLNGAMGUNTLA DISTRICT   nWITH1 17 JUNIOR ENGINEERS |           HUZURNAGAR DISTRICT        WITH 17JUNIGR ENGINEERS|
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER    L4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS                   EXECUTIVE ENGINEER        4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS         _    EXECUTIVE ENGINEER    |   4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS 
MECHANICAL LGIVISIGN    nWITH 1 7 JUNIOR ENGINEERS |         SATTENAPAIlIY DISTRICT   nWITH 17 JUNIOR ENGINEERS |           TEKULAPALLY DISTRICT   -|WITH 17 JUNIOR ENGINEERS|
71 EXECUTIVE ENGINEER     4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS                EXECUTIVE ENGINEER        4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS
AODANKI DISTRICT            WITH 17 JUNIOR ENGINEERS |       JAGGAYYAPETA DISTRICT   nWITH 17 JUNIOR ENGINEERS
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER      _  4 ASSISTANT ENGINEERS 
]   ONGOLE DISTRICT  |                                      - WITH 17 JUNIOR ENGINEERS |
~~~~~E  T' V ECE N 1,  "  "(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F S
World Sank-1 5672
VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Nl\c



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1976           1977             1 978          1979             1980             1981
ITEM- -- -
QUARTER   1 st 2nd 3rd 4th 1 st 2nd 3rd 4th 1 st 2nd 3rd 4th 1 st 2nd 3rd 4th 1 st 2nd 3rd 4th 1 st 2nd 3rd 4th
Board Presentation
Project Effective
NSP Right Main Canal (Under Construction)            .......
NSP Right Bank Command Area:                         .            - _   _   _  _   _  _               - _  _   _   _  _   _
Block 15 (29,300 ac)- -----                                                                    - - -
Block 16 & 17 (18,400 ac)                                                          _  _  _         _  _   _   _
Block 18 (20,000 ac)                                                                           - _ _ _ _ _
Block 1 9 (66,200 ac)                                                                      _               - _  _   _   _ .
Block 20 & 21 (29,800 ac)                                                                                       - _   _   _   _   _
Block 22 (183,300 ac)                                                                                       -  I          _   _    _    _   -
NSP Left Main Canal (Under Construction)
NSP Left Bank Command Area:                   ... . _ _ _                                                                              - _
Block 20 (98,280 ac)                             _ _                                   -   - _
Block 21/1 - 21/3 (10,000 adc                                                                  - -         
Block 21/4   21/5 (17,420 ac)                                                              _   _   _            -
Block 21/6 - 21/9 (121,000 ac)                                                                      -   - _  _   _   _      - _
Block 21/10 (188,000 ac)                                                                                            -  -  - _ _ _
Block 21/11 (37,000 ac)                                                                                             - _ _ _ _ _
NSP Road Improvement & Construction Program                      I   I  I _ 
Kilometers Completed (Cumulative)                             .            145                607  _  _   ..384 -   _         1311      -     1576
Monitoring Project Performance                _ _                      -   - _ _       - _ T T I
CAD Program  - Area Completed (Cumulative ha)
NSP Right Bank                                             _        _   -                       1,I 6   _ 6,40( _   _   16,000
NSP Left Bank                                              -       -1,600              -    6,400             1 A  6,000
Pochampad Project                                                            4,800           14,400           33,600
Tungabhadra High Level Canal                               -               - ---                &0             6,400
Extension Service Program                   _    _ L 1                                          j   J _                            -   - I
NOTE:
Wet season months June through September
World Bank-1 5671



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Orqanization Chr.t: Na.gr1uoasagar Pronect Construction                                                                                                       AE  9
Fig.
L I H O t r M `N IT 
l                        l   ~~~~~~~~DEPUTY CHIEF ENGINEER
|  SIJPERIN ENDINC   l  l  SUMERINIENUING   | ~~~~~~~~~~SUENINTENDINGUERNENIG                                               SUPERINTENDING       l             OEITNIG             l     l      SOPERINTENDING                      UERINTENDING
PERINTENDG EG N                                                            IEI> CAU DAG KRP  EGE                                         'EG NEt  INEE                  s  ENGINEER                           ENG    GA9                    MA--RR REG ON- 0 0  n
F, n   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                               n                                      
~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=                                                  8                                                                                                             a
-H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
z- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~oi Fak tw7(I 23
0  n    n   . 0      0 >0               0>n                         0                >            >0     n   .0>0 



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Organization and Management, Command Area Development
Organization of Command Area Development at the State Level
1.        The GOAP established a CAD Department in August 1974.  The designated
functions of the department are:
(a) construction of field channels and field drains within the
command of each outlet (pipe);
(b) land leveling of holdings;
(c) consolidation of holdings and re-drawing of field boundaries
where necessary;
(d) enforcement of warabandi to enable an equitable distribution
of water;
(e) development of groundwater to supplement surface water
irrigation;
(f) selection and introduction of cropping patterns;
(g) supply of inputs and services;
(h) development of marketing and processing facilities;
(i) diversification of agriculture (animal husbandry,
forestry, poultry, etc.);
(j) soil conservation and afforestation, and
(k) construction of village roads.
2.        The department is headed by a Secretary, who coordinates two steering
committees. The first committee is headed by the Chief Minister. Members are
ministers and secretaries of departments connected with the working of command
area development, the Chief Secretary to the Government, the First Member
of the Board of Revenue and the Agricultural Production Commissioner. The
Secre tary, CAD, is its secretary member. The second committee is headed by
the Agricultural Production Commissioner and members include the secretaries
and heads of departments connected with CAD activities, and administrators
working in different command areas.
123



ANNEX 10
Page 2
3.        The Secretary, CAD, has also been nominated Commissioner of CAD
for the following four command areas (Chart 15670):
--   Nagarjunasagar Left Bank Project
--   Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Project
--   Tungabhadra Project
--   Pochampad Project
4.        The Commissioner is assisted by three Technical Cells advising him
in planning and implementation of command area development programs:
--   an Agricultural Cell, headed by a Senior Joint Director;
--   a Cooperative and Credit Cell, headed by a Joint Registrar
of Cooperative Societies, and
--   an Engineering Cell, headed by a Superintending Engineer.
5.        The Secretary chairs a Research and Extension Committee and a
Credit Coordination Committee. Cormmittee members of the first committee are
the directors of research, and agricultural Specialists from agricultural
universities, the State government departments and experts from GOI. The
Credit Coordination Committee deals with problems of credit. Representatives
from the Reserve Bank of India, the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC),
the land mortgage banks (LMBs), Cooperative banks and other commercial banks
(CBs) are members of this committee.
Project Level
6.        At the project level, the Administrator, CAD, is the chief executive
for planning and implementation of the program. He has three operational
units under his control:
The Extension Unit      --  (for agricultural extension services)
The Engineering Unit   --  (survey/planning & design of irrigation
networks and supervision of construction)
The Credit Unit         --  (to assist the flow of credit)
The Administrator is normally a Generalist Officer of the Indian Administra-
tive Service. All units working under him are headed by technical officers
and specialists.
7.        The Director of Agriculture and the Registrar of Cooperative Soci-
eties at the State government leve: exercise technical control over the ag-
ricultural and credit staff in the project working through the Administrator.
The Superintending Engineer, CAD, similarly exercises technical control
124



ANNEX 10
Page 3
over the engineering staff working in the field. The heads of the units act
as deputies to the Administrator. This administrative set-up is similar to
the general administrative pattern of the District where the Collectors
function as department heads of all development units in the District, while
at the State level the heads of departments exercise technical control through
the Collector.
8.        At the project level, a CAD Authority Board will supervise opera-
tions. The Board is headed by a minister with concerned members of parliament
and of the State Legislature, the chairmen of Zilla Parishads and the Col-
lectors as members. The Agricultural Production Commissioner is the vice-
chairman of this board while the Administrator of the project is its Secretary.
This board normally meets once in three months to approve development programs
and review progress.
9.        The Secretary, CAD, presides monthly over the project working com-
mittees in each of the four projects. The Administrators of the projects are
the vice-chairmen of the committees and the Collectors and District level
officers are members.
Financing of On-Farm Development Works
10.       On-farm development works would be compulsory and the cost of works
would be recovered from the beneficiaries. The necessary legislation empower-
ing the Secretary, CAD, to carry out on-farm development works has been
drafted and is satisfactory.
11.       The proposed financing plan is aimed at keeping GOAP's budgetary li-
abilities to a minimum. Financing would be provided to farmers from CBs and
LDBs (LMBs). Long-term loans secured by mortgages on the land, scheduled for
development, would cover approximately 80% of the cost of development and
would be provided for 12 years at an interest rate of about 11% and a grace
period of two years.  Some 20% of the farmers are estimated to be ineligible
for ordinary commercial loans because of defective land titles or because of
overdues on debts to local authorities, cooperatives or commercial financing
institutions. These farmers would be provided with unsecured special loans.
12.       The Land Revenue Service in the project areas would ensure that as
many farmers as possible become eligible for commercial loans through a cam-
paign to update land records and to recover debt arrears. This would be de-
sirable as unsecured loans would evolve higher interest rates (14%) to the
farmers and budgetary liabilities for GOAP and GOI for guaranteeing the un-
secured loans provide to these farmers.
13.       Ordinary land development loans given by LMBs and CBs would be
refinanced at the rate of 75% and 80%, respectively, by the ARDC. Unsecured
land development loans will be fully refinanced by    the CAD Special Loans
Fund (CSLF) administered by ARDC. Financial responsibility for CSLF loans
will be shared by GOI, GOAP and ARDC, with a 50% contribution by GOI, and
25% contributions each by GOAP and ARDC. The fund would be set up initially
to ensure the refinancing of at least 20% of the farmers in a CAD program
125



ANNEX 10
Page 4
area who are estimated to be ineligible for ordinarv land development loans.
The conditions of the fund are being negotiated between ARDC, GOI and GOAP and
would be broadly as follows:
(1) The fund mav be calLed "The CAD Special Loans Fund."
(2)  The fund shoulA  be utilized for financing the exoendi-
ture in connecticn with on-tar- development irn respect
of ineligible farmers under the CAD Program , that is,
farmers who are not ablE to get funds from banks for
on-farm development for one reason or the other.
(3)  The contribution by GOI, GOAP and ARDC should be increased, b-
mutual agreement, in the proportions mentioned in para 13 above,
where the number of ineligible farmers exceeds 20% of the total
farmers covered by the CAD Program.
(4) The requirements of finances for on-farm development works
in respect of ineligible farmers will be estimated at the
commencement of every financial year and will be contributed
in two stages; 50% of the estimated requirements will be
contributed in advance by the three agencies, namely GOI,
GOAP and ARDC in the proportions indicated in para 13 above;
the remaining 50% would be contributed by all the three agencies
in the same proportion as soon as 80% of the contributions made
in advance are fully utilized.
(5)  The fund would be maintained by ARDC.
(6) The fund would be administered by a committee consisting of
one representative each of GOI, ARDC and the GOAP.
(7) The accounts of the fund will be maintained by ARDC.
(8) The fund shall be a revolving fund and all capital recoveries
in respect of lendings out of this fund shall be credited to
the fund.
(9) The GOAP shall not withdraw its contributions from the
fund until the project is completed and until the loans from
ineligible farmers are f-ully repaid.
(10) The contribution from GOI shall not be withdrawn so long
as contributions from ARDC are not withdrawn.
(ll) The GOAP shall guarantee the loans given by the fund.
126



ANNEX 10
Page 5
14.       Land development loans to ineligible farmers would be channelled
through the LDBs and the CBs with the same processing procedure used for
ordinary mortgage secured, loan operations, except that these loans would
be fully refinanced and recoveries, collected by the LDBs or CBs, credited to
the fund.
15.       Loan applications would be prepared jointly by the engineering
unit and the credit unit operating in the project area, and would be based on
the estimated cost for land leveling works on the farmer's holding and a
proportional share of the construction cost of the field channels, field
drains and related structures in the command of an outlet.
16.       The GOAP and ARDC would draw up a banking plan, dividing the proj-
ect area into zones of operation for the LDBs and CBs. The financing position
of the participating banks is satisfactory and, with ARDC refinancing no
shortage of funds is anticipated.
Proposed Implementation Program
17.       Ideally, the CAD program should cover the full irrigation potential
created by the distribution network in the four project areas. However, as
no large scale development has been attempted in the past in the project
areas, the targets for the first three-year period have been scaled down to
allow for the gradual build-up of the CAD organizWtion and the training of
manpower. The targets set out in Table 1 are based on present planning, design
and implementation procedures, which over time, can be improved considerably.
The figures shown in Table I irrigated wet (IW) and irrigated dry (ID) areas
only. For the IW areas, no outside inputs and little guidance is required at
present as farmers use traditional methods. In subsequent stages of the CAD
program, more efficient methods would be introduced for these areas as well.
18.       For the purpose of analyzing the work load of the CAD Authorities
and estimated manpower requirements, the average cost of the full package
of on-farm development works (construction of an irrigation and drainage
network for a pipe and land leveling of the holdings) is taken as Rs 2,000/ha
-- half of the cost for the network and half for land leveling. A further
assumption has been made that only one half of the area, on the average,
would require land leveling, i.e., the cost of the CAD would average
Rs 1,500/ha over the area included in the first three years (first stage) of
the CAD Program.
19.       According to standards fixed by GOAP in 1967, a PWD division,
(with four sub-divisions) is expected to implement works worth about Rs 2.4
million per year, if the works are of a minor nature.
20.       Compared to a PWD division, Land Development Divisions of the
CAD Authority would carry out works spread out even more. On the average,
the length of the network and the number of structures in a 20 ha pipe would
be as follows:
127



ANNEX 10
Page 6
(i)  Primary & Secondary field channels;          4,000 Meters
(ii)  Primary & Secondary fielcd drains;           4,000 Meters
(iii) Check drops, turnouts distribution,
and boxes                                      300 Nos.
(iv)  Lining of primary channels.                    300 Meters.
21.       Using these estimates, a CAD division (four construction sub-
divisions) would implement works for some Rs 2.4 million per year, equivalent
to an area of about 1,600 ha (80 pipes of 20 ha each). About 40 to 50 small
contractors would be employed by each division for 35 to 40 weeks to com-
plete the infrastructural work on ],600 ha. Land shaping and leveling on
800 ha will require some 20 tractors in the working season. The same division
would be able to survey and design 1,600 ha in the four month-long rainy
season. Normally survey work does not form part of the duties of a PWD con-
struction division. However, in order to reduce engineering overhead costs,
the two functions will be combined in the proposed CAD divisions.
22.       Some five CAD divisions would be required during the first year, 13
divisions during the second year and 27 divisions during the third year for an
area of 8,000 ha, 20,800 ha., and 43,200 ha, respectively.
23.       Capital cost and establishment cost for the CAD divisions would be
as follows:
(in 100,000 Rupees)
1976-77     1977-78      1978-79      Total
Establishment       67.30       132.90       250.50      450.70
Capital             34.27        50.88        91.50      176.66
Total         101.57       183.78       342.01     627.36
The establishment cost for implementing the CAD program, per ha developed,
will be about Rs 626. Of this, Rs 176/ha is survey and design and Rs 450/ha
for construction supervision.
24.       In drawing up the implementation program, it was assumed that
preselection of pipes (for defining the number of ineligible farmers) would
be done by the credit staff of CAD and the LDBs and CBs. Allowance has
been made for the time required for issuing notices, and hearing objections,
etc., as prescribed under the proposed legislation for comprehensive CAD.
128



ANNEX 10
Page 7
25.       With an average survey, design and supervision cost of Rs 626/ha
the engineering overhead for CAD works is slightly over 40%. Undoubtedly
these percentages can be reduced with more efficient work procedures. More
experience in land leveling by contractors would also reduce the cost of
supervision. However, in view of the type of work involved, the engineer-
ing overhead is bound to remain high, probably in excess of 25%. At present,
the GOAP together with GOI is paying for this engineering overhead. Under
the project, farmers would pay a 15% surcharge on the contract cost for
the civil works to cover a part of the engineering cost.
April 1976
129



ANNEX 10
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
On-Farm Development Works
Program of On-Farm Development in the four Sub-Projects
First Stage                  Second State                           Hectares
Command r-ea           1Q76/77   77-78    78-79      79-8n   80-81   81-82      82-83   83-81   84-85        Total
1. Nagarjunasagar
(Left)     1,600     4,800    9,600      19,200  30,400  30,400    40,000  40,000  40,000    216,000
2. Nagarjunasagar
(Right)    1,600     4,800    9,600      14,400  30,400  30,400    30,400  30,400  20,000    172,000
3. Tungabhadra Project
(HLC Stage II)       --       1,600    4,800      11,200   9,600   9,600       --       --      --        36,800
4. Pochampad Project   4,800      9,600   19,200      14,400    --       --         --      --       --       48,ooo
Total        8,000    20,800   43,200       59,200  70,400  70,400    70,400  70,400  60,000    472,800
* Pochampad program includes development of 6,000 ha from irrigation potential
created up to 6/75 while the other programns include only the potential that will
be oreated beyond 6/75.



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Organization Chart: Command Area Development Department                                       ANNEX 10
Fig. 1
SECRETARYl
_                                                    >_ Q4ER) CAD1MMISIOER)/ D
|  D I R ECTO R    |    /                                                                    |  REGISTRAR
AGRICULTURE                                                                                      CO-OCIERTIV
SUPERINTEDiN                                     AMNSRTRADMINISTRATIVEJ
ENGINER                                   COMMAND AREA AUTHORITY                 ................---  UNIT---
ENGINEERING UNIT                    EXTENSION UNIT                      CREDIT UNIT
EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                  DEPUTY DIRECTOR                  DEPUTY REGISTRAR OF
ASSISTANT ENGINEER               ASST. DIRECTOR AGRI.                CO-OP SUB-REGISTRAR
SUPERVISOR                    ASST. AGRI. OFFICER
INSPECTORS                VILLAGE EXTENSION WORKERS
.t 1
1 /  The Secretary CAD acts also as the Commissioner for CAD in the four project areas. As Commissioner
w                he has additional executive powers.
World Bank-15670



ANNEX 11
Page   1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGiATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
I.   A&2jcultural Extension
A.   The Present Situation
1.        In the project areas, agricultural extension is the joint responsi-
bility of the Secretary, CAD, and t:he State Director of Agriculture. A pro-
fessional agriculturist nominated by the Director of Agriculture, is attached
to the Secretary, CAD and has overall charge of extension activities in the
project areas. Staff in the field report to three different departments: CAD,
the Department of Agriculture and to the Panchayat Samithies. The Panchayat
Samithies have direct control of the Village Level Workers (VLW) who, conse-
quently, spend a large amount of time on non-agricultural activities. Fur-
ther, there are a number of special. schemes operating in the project areas,
like a maize scheme in the Pochampad Command, a cotton project in the Nagar-
junasagar Right Bank Command, a Multiple Cropping Project and a Water Manage-
ment Project. All have extension staff in the field covering their own
subjects. They overlap physically among themselves and with the regular
extension staff. Some of these schemes are "centrally sponsored," i.e.
partly financed and staffed by GOI personnel and therefore any alteration
in their pattern of work is not entirely within the discretion of GOAP.
B.   The Proposed Organization
The Staffing Pattern
2.        The proposed new extensicn crganization would follow closely the
well tried and successful Chambal Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan system. Ex-
tension work would be headed by senior officials of the Department of Agricul-
ture, who would be posted in the project areas,  They would act on behalf
of the Administrator of the Command Areas in agricultural matters. Technic-
ally, they would continue to report to their line department. Only the State
extension service would have contacts with farmers; experts from the special
projects would function as advisors.
3.        The cadre in contact with the farmers would continue to be the
VLW. The Panchayat Samithies would retain sufficient staff of this grade to
attend to non-agricultural duties. The balance, some 75% to 80% of the
establishment, would be known as Village Extension Workers (VEWs) and be part
of the Department of Agriculture. New entrants would be matriculates. They
would be trained at the VLW Training Center at Bapatla, which is situated
south of the Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Canal command area.                          132



ANNEX 11
Page   2
4.        The VEWs would report to Assistant Agricultural Officers (AAOs)
who would supervise not more than seven VEWs. The AAO would have a diploma in
agriculture from a farm institute and two years experience in the field in
general extension work and farmer contacts.
5.        An Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA) would be in charge of an
Extension Circle, consisting of the area controlled by up to seven AAOs. He
would be assisted by Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) whose discipline
and number depends on the area as well as the crops and problems that may
be faced. The ADAs and SMSs would be agricultural graduates with general or
specialized experience and interests. The ADA would, in addition, have
administrative experience commensurate with the number of line staff that he
would have to control. He would report to a Deputy Director of Agriculture
(DDA). One DDA would be in charge of up to four extension Circles.
6.        In the case of large command areas, a Joint Director of Agriculture
(JDA) would be appointed to supervise and coordinate the activities of the
DDAs. Senior SMSs would be based at his headquarters. But, irrespective of
rank, the most senior agriculturist would have access to the Administrator
and act as his fully authorized deputy in agricultural matters.
Staff Buildup
7.        The number of VEWs depends on the area farmed, the number of farm-
ers and what is considered to be the desirable farmer-to-VEW ratio in light
of farmer development and responsiveness. The following figures have been
used for planning purposes:
No. of     Farmed       Area per   VEW/Farmer   Approx.
Farmers     Area         Farmer      Ratio       No. of
( ,000)  ( ,000 ha)       (ha)                    VEWs
Nagarjunasagar
Left Bank           113        397           3.5      1:800          145
Right Bank          158        475           3.0       1:1,000       158
Pochampad              47        103           2.2       1:550          85
Tungabhadra            16         95           6.0       1:550          30
It is intended that when an area first receives irrigation water, the
farmer-to-VEW ratio would be one-third of the ultimate, rising to two-thirds
after one or two years.
8.        Farming standards are already high and the farmers are considered
responsive. Therefore, only a well-trained, properly supervised and back-
stopped extension service would inspire farmer confidence and generate the
133



ANNEX 11
Page 3
momentum that was largely responsible for the achievements in other areas
where the system was introduced. Consequently, initial buildup must be
commensurate with available high-quality staff and the expected initial
training output. It is proposed to start with one Extension Circle in each
area and to build up gradually. It is further proposed to establish the
DDA's office at the same time, thereby adding strength to field supervision
during the first crucial year and obtaining the spare capacity of a Senior
Officer--the DDA--for the vital staff selection, planning and training
functions.
Method of Operation
9.        Contact with and advice to the farmers would be extended in units
of the outlets. The outlet (pipe, commands 40 to 45 ha and is farmed by 7
to 22 farmers. There would be an elected Pipe Committee, which would nomi-
nate four or five contact farmers. The contact farmers would be visited
by the VEW once a fortnight, always on the same day, morning or afternoon
and he would spend four or five hours in the general area. The contact
farmers would arrange for several other farmers to be present. The VEW would
discuss and, if appropriate, demonstrate the topical matters for the visit,
which had already been defined in his fortnightly training session and would
then attend to these same problems on other farmers' lands, upon request.
Between his visits, follow-up would devolve on the contact farmers. The VEW
would spend eight days each fortnight visiting 16 farmer groups; one day, at
the end of the period, on briefing and training for the next fortnight's
assignment and the rest of his time on ad hoc visits in response to special
problems, as well as planning and updating his records.
10.       The AAO would spend eight days every fortnight with his VEWs, so
arranging the days of his visits that he sees his entire area in sequence.
He would participate in the fortnightly training session, accompany, upon
request, the VEW on his special visits, take charge of demonstration plots and
farmers' days held on them. He wculd also maintain contact with the SMSs and,
as need arises, request their presence during field trips.
11.       The ADA would also spend several days a week in the field, visit-
ing his AAOs and arranging to cover the whole Extension Circle in a systematic
manner. He would also keep track of the work of the SMSs, contact the various
extension committees (para 13), and prepare for his part of the training
programs.
12.       Where applicable, the DEAs and JDAs would follow a similar work
pattern but their representational, administrative and policy-making tasks
would take a greater time.
13.       An integral part of the operating procedure would be to ensure
farmer participation and interest through the establishment of advisory
-134



ANNEX 11
Page 4
and consultative committees. In each project area, there would be a
Project Extension Council that would meet twice a year with the DDA or
JDA and the Adr-inistrator to discuss past results and advise on campaigns
planned for the comming season. There would be similar committees con-
cerned with the major crops, advising the SMSs and Circle ADAs. The Pipe
Committees (para 9) would have the most frequent contact with extension
officers and would exercise the greatest influence in ensuring the success
of the project.
Training
14.       Staff Training and Development.  The Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
University in Hyderabad has one of the three Extension Education Institutes in
India, which serves the southern States. They organize courses for extension
officers above the VEW level on specific subjects (credit, crop production
training, etc.) as well as on extension methods and techniques. There are
courses for the instructional staff of agricultural schools of all levels,
Government training centers and also for the compilers of agricultural programs
on All-India Radio. The Institute has all the facilities for its participants;
classrooms, teaching aids and a dedicated professional staff. It would be a
major component of the training program of extension staff above the VEW
level. Yearly refresher courses would be organized for SMSs in which selected
other staff would also participate. The courses would be run as workshops in
which opportunities would be given to relate, exchange and analyze past field
experiences. The generalist field staff would attend suitably designed
courses on extension methods, the principles and practice of supervision and
on general management training and development matters, thus preparing them
for promotion.
15.       The present VLWs clearly lose motivation when they have reached
the top of their salary scale and see no avenues for promotion. Therefore,
VEWs whose technical knowledge is adequate would participate in courses
held at the Extension Training Institute and if they give evidence of having
absorbed and being able to apply the course material, would become eligible
for promotion to AAO and eventually, higher grades.
16.       The syllabus for all courses in which project extension staff
participate would be prepared jointly by the project SMSs and the Institute's
staff and would be approved by the Director of Agriculture and Secretary, CAD
Department.
17.       The more frequently recurring staff training would take place
within the Extension Circles and the project units. One of the SMSs in each
Extension Circle is an Extension Specialist, one of whose tasks it is to
organize staff training. This consists of a fortnightly training course for
the VEWs during which the salient points, never more than two or three at a
time of the next period's tasks would be imparted to ensure that the farmers'
attention and sense of importance would not be dissipated. The VEWs would
attend a workshop type training program before each season, to review past
achievements and difficulties and plan the next season's work. During these
135



ANNEX 11
Page 5
seasons, a concensus would be reached in which points of crop husbandry,
additional to the ones from the previous year, could be introduced without
de-emphasizing previous ones and changes in methods and points of emphasis,
suggested by technical developments reviewed. Both courses would have to
have a practical base, including inspection and work in farmers' fields.
The speakers may be AAOs and even VEWs, and not exclusively the more senior
officers. Work planning and the detailed analysis of sample work plans
would be a major part of the seasonal training sessions.
18.       The training of the management level staff (AAO and above) would
take place at wider intervals, perhaps every two months. However, in advance
of the two seasonal VEW training sessions, there must be a suitable course for
all management grade staff, in association with a research station, to bring
them up-to-date on recent investigational work in all aspects of the crops to
be grown and on the practical implications of recent advances.
19.       Farmer Training would be directed to members of the Project Ex-
tension Council, the Branch Committees for various crops, the Pipe Committees,
and the contact farmers. These sessions would necessarily be discursive, and
be used for imparting and discussing matters of policy and administration such
as timings of water releases, crop area targets and specific problems of crop
husbandry. The sessions directed at the Extension Council and the Branch
Committees would be a series of talLks and discussions lasting one day and
conducted by the DDA or ADA and having SMSs, other officials and leading
farmers as speakers. The training sessions for the Pipe Committees would be
held by the AAO, with SMSs, VEWs and perhaps ADAs as speakers. The contact
farmers must be trained every season for two days at a training institute
where facilities exist for proper demonstrations and objective-oriented slide
and film shows. The rank-and-file farmers would be approached during field
days on demonstration plots. Farmers' meetings would also be held in villages
where colored slides or films of topical interest would shown.
Subject Matter Specialists
20.       The disciplines required by all are:
--  extension methods and training
-- agronomy
-- water use and management
plant protection
-- farm machinery
The Tungabhadra area would need an expert in citrus culture. Other areas may
well show up similar specialized needs.
136



ANNEX 11
Page 6
21.       At all times, the desirable arrangement is to have SMSs at the
Extension Circle (ADA) level. Exceptions to this are acceptable only if:
(a) a sufficient number of adequately trained SMSs
is not available;
(b) the discipline they represent is such that the nature
of its application is much the same throughout the
season and the non-specialist staff can follow-up
between the less frequent supporting visits.
It would also be desirable to have senior, widely experienced SMSs attached
to the DDAs and JDAs office (when established) to give backstopping to the
SMSs attached to the ADA.
Implementation Procedure
22.       Table 1 shows the expected implementation which would be operating
from July 1, 1976. The AAOs, SMSs, ADAs and DDAs for the first year would be
appointed before that date. These officers would receive preliminary training
to have already been completed March 31, 1976. The training would have
included a one month secondment to an operational extension project in Rajastan,
Madhya Pradesh or West Bengal. The AAOs would have spent a full fortnight in
the field with their opposite numbers and have attended at least two VEW
training sessions normally conducted by the AAOs. The selection of the first
batch of 21 SMSs would have been done in consultation with an IBRD consultant.
23.       The area from which the staff for the extension project including
VEWs would have been chosen is the maximum range of their transferability in
accordance with the prevailing rules and practices of the State of Andhra
Pradesh Civil Service Commission.
24.       The newly-developed Chelgal farm in the Pochampad area would serve
the needs of the Pochampad Project. Therefore, the program would be under
the auspices of CAD authorities who would consider the advice and interests
of other parties. It is expected that similar arrangements would be made
for all Project Demonstration and Development Farms.
Extension Equipment
25.       Mobility of staff is of prime importance.  It is therefore proposed
that VEWs all have bicycles, the AAOs motorcycles and other staff four-
wheel drive vehicles. Bicycles would be owned by VEWs who may dray an ad-
vance for their purchase and receive an appropriate upkeep allowance. A
similar arrangement would operate in the case of motorcycles, where the
allowance would be so structured as to give maximum incentive to proper
preventive maintenance. The four-wheel drive vehicles would be Government-
owned but facilities should exist to encourage the officers to purchase and
operate their own vehicles.
*137



ANNEX 11
Page 7
26.       Other equipment like cameras, projectors, etc. would be needed
at Extension Circle level to ensure more effective demonstrations and instruc-
tion. Housing and office space must be available and in places where it is
not possible to rent, construction would be undertaken. Study trips by
selected staff, within and outside India may become necessary.
II. Agricultural Research
27.       Agricultural research findings applicable to the project areas
are generated from three sources: the State universities, the All-India
Coordinated Programs operating in Andhra Pradesh and the International Crops
Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT).
28.       The State Universities.  State Universities operate from two main
sites. One is near Hyderabad in RELjendranagar and the other, an agricultural
college, is in the Krishna Delta, in Bapatla. They have plant breeding,
agronomy and soil survey, soil fertility and soil classification programs.
Their agro-economic surveys and socio-economic studies, undertaken by ad-
vanced degree candidates or as on-going departmental research programs,
are of great value in extrapolating possible impacts of development projects
and in identifying other-than-agronomically-based motivations for farmer
reactions to change. The Extension Education Institute (para 13) is inte-
grated with Rajendranagar University and has its own research program.
29.       The All-India Coordinated Programs.  The final testing of new
crop varieties or hybrids, and of new agronomic practices, devolves on trials
conducted under the All-India Coordinated programs. The ones pertaining to
rice, maize and sorghum are located in Rajendranagar. Development work on
maize is also carried on in Karimnagar, near the Pochampad Project area.
Cotton research development is centered in Guntur District (NSP Right Bank
command) which is the State's main cotton-producing area. A research station
working on groundnuts, chillies andi millets is near Lam, also in the Guntur
area. These establishments all do basic genetic research as well.
30.       ICRISAT is one of the research institutes set up under the Con-
sultative Group of International Agricultural Research financed by FAO,
UNDP and the World Bank Group. It has many international contacts, of which
the most important, for the present project, is the one with the International
Institute of Tropical Agriculture in Nigeria on tropical legume research.
The Institute is also studying the agro-economic problems of the Andhra
Pradesh farmers and is making a continuing contribution to the socio-economic
analysis of their production and marketing problems.
31.       The State, and therefore the project areas are well provided with
basic and adaptive research facilities which are effectively and competently
backstopped by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the Indian
Agricultural Research Institute; ICRISAT, with its internationally-recruited,
highly competent staff, and top-quality management and organization complete
138



ANNEX 11
Page   8
the setting. The only point of weakness is a communication gap between them
and the State extension services, which the reorganization was expected to
overcome.
III. Monitoring Project Impact
32.       The following information would be collected and analyzed  in the
course of the monitoring studies. In the two Nagarjunasagar sub-areas:
a.   effect of irrigation on areas not at present irrigated;
b.   effect of prohibiting rice growing in areas already
irrigated in the rabi; and
c.   field irrigation efficiencies below the pipe outlet.
In all four sub-areas:
a.   the effects of CAD on land already irrigated;
b.   the impact of the extension service;
c.   effects on employment of non-family members on the
farm and their wage levels; and
d.   effects on off-farm employment.
33.       Monitoring would start in June/July, 1977 and continue for four
years. Observations would be collected on a 1% scatter of carefully selec-
ted outlet commands in NSP and on a 2% sample in Pochampad and on a 4% sample
in Tungabhadra in locations where CAD would be implemented. Land ownership,
occupancy, cropping patterns and intensities, and yields of all fields would
be recorded on the sample areas; the farm labor situation records would cover
all farmers who have land on the recorded area, including their nearby fields
and farms. The off-farm employment survey would be an independent operation,
taking place in the first and final year of the monitoring program.
34.       Over succeeding years, information on the farmers under observation
as well as from the Panchayat Samithies would be available. Changes brought
about by the project would thus be measurable and could be related to surround-
ing non-project areas.
35.       The records and diaries of the extension effort would be analyzed,
and the number of responding farmers and their yield changes noted.
139



ANNEX 11
Page   9
36.       Water use and efficiencies between the outlet and the farmers'
fields would be recorded, in close cooperation with, and under the guidance
of, the engineering monitoring and wqater loss recording service (Annex 9).
37.       The operation would be contracted out to one or more institutions
selected by GOAP and approved by the Bank. An officer not below the rank of
DDA reporting to the Secretary, CAA, would have charge of the operation and
coordinate the work. Total cost is estimated at about Rs 7 M (US$800,000).
IV. Input Services
38.       Seeds.  There is relativeLy little trade in the seeds of the
non-hybrid crops: farmers tend to keep their own or, if they change the
variety, buy or exchange grain for seeds with their neighbors and thereafter
revert to maintaining their own planting stock. Planting material is being
obtained from merchants and differs little from consumption-grade grain.
There is, however, a well-developed producing and marketing organization
for hybrid seeds (maize, sorghum, pearl millet) for all vegetable seeds
including chillies; for cotton and for the small amount of wheat that is grown
in the State. The National Seeds Corporation (NSC) and the Maharashtra
Hybrid Seeds Corporation have the major share of such market for certified
seeds that exists. At least one private fertilizer producing and marketing
organization sells rice seeds, with little more than a nominal volume of
business. The establishment of a State Seeds Corporation is under consider-
ation by an IDA appraisal team, principally for rice seed production,
primarily meant for export to other States.
39.       It would appear that existing supplies, and their expected develop-
ment in line with increasing demand, will meet anticipated needs. Quality
would be ensured by the State seed certification and testing organization
that is expected to be set up within the framework of the IDA seeds project.
40.       Fertilizers.  Farmers are highly fertilizer conscious and it seems
certain that the expected extension organization will be able to induce them
to use economical doses as irrigation water becomes available or better yields
become potentially possible with land shaping under CAD. The marketing and
distribution organization is reasonably efficient: the retail trade is
handled by private dealers, the State Cooperative Marketing Federation and,
mainly for credit sales, by depots operated by the Department of Agriculture.
While there is some disproportionate concentration of sales outlets along the
major lines of communication, the price structure allows for at least part
of the transport costs to the more remote areas to be recovered. More use
is likely to be made of this as the demand increases and supply shortages
ease. The trade, on a State-wide basis, expects and plans for a sizeable
increase in sales volume, especially for the mixed blends and complex
fertilizers.
140



ANNEX 11
Page  10
41.       Pesticides are handled by private enterprise and by cooperatives.
Several small concerns do their own mixing and packing in conveniently -
sized small containers. The regulations covering container specifications
and (for metal containers) the type of inner lining required are not de-
fined and only the larger firms attempt to indicate any expiry date. Some
dissatisfaction has been expressed both by farmers and by retailers.
42.       Sprayers are available on loan from the extension service and
are on sale by most of the sellers of pesticides. Designs of the hand-
operated sprayer are old and could be improved by better engineering
application and by the use of better materials. The motorized knapsacks are
of modern design and usually manufactured under foreign licenses.
43.       There is no doubt that with treatment of crops most at risk (cotton,
chillies and, under project conditions, sorghum, groundnuts and sugarcane)
not only a rational and properly monitored application timing (Annex 12,
para 19) but also better application, resulting from more efficient machines,
and the ensuring of full efficiency claimed for the chemicals by proper
quality control, would have good effect.
V. Agricultural Credit
44.       The cooperative banks which extend short- and medium-term loans to
farmers are organized on a three-tier basis: one State Cooperative Bank, 25
central cooperative banks (with 48 loan branches and 94 deposit branches) and
some 15,000 primary agricultural credit societies at the village level.
The number of central cooperative bank branches would eventually be increased
to 195, or one branch per taluk and they would all become loan branches
capable of giving full services to the Agricultural Credit Societies. The
number of primary societies would be reduced to 7,000 which is considered the
optimum number.
45.       The agricultural credit societies borrow from the central coopera-
tive banks; the latter borrow from the State Cooperative Bank, and the State
Cooperative Bank borrows from the Reserve Bank of India. The State Coope-
rative Bank's borrowings from outside sources have amounted to only Rs 97
million. Compared with some other States, the dependence of Andhra Pradesh
cooperative banks on outside sources is small.
46.       The Central Cooperative Bank controls the operations of its branches
through regular inspections and audits. It sets District-wide targets for
the mobilization of deposits and the collection of overdues and sanctions
credit limits for all Agricultural Credit Societies. Branches of the Central
Cooperative Bank authorize disbursements to the Credit Societies, advise and
assist them in carrying out and reporting on their activities as well as in
charting their development.
-141-



ANNEX 11
Page 11
47.       The Agricultural Credit: Societies are the dispensers of agricul-
tural credit at farm level. Short-term advances, about 80% to 85% of the
total, are largely crop production loans. Medium-term advances finance mainly
for well construction or improvenment and the purchase of milch animals, pump
sets and small agricultural implements. Typical seasonal loans are Rs 480 per
ac (1,200 per ha) for local varieties of rice, Rs 675 per ac (1,700 per ha)
for HYV and Rs 675 per ac (1,700 per ha) for groundnuts.
48.       Agricultural credit society members of good standing may borrow
up to ten times the value of their shares in the society. The maximum short-
term credit granted to any indivi.dual is Rs 10,000 in irrigated areas and
Rs 6,000 in other areas; medium-term loans are limited to Rs 5,000 per farmer.
In the case of borrowings without: mortgage of land, a 15% contribution is
required in addition to the 10% share capital contribution. Up to Rs 2,000
short-term loans to tenants as well as land holders are secured only by two
personal guarantees. Farmers then get the full amount of the loan contracted;
no insurance is required.
49.       Overdues have appeared to be a diminishing problem for cooperative
banks. At the State cooperative bank level, overdues are negligible. At the
District level, central bank loans overdue represent about 25% of total loans
outstanding, a drop from the 49% which prevailed in 1972.
50.       After some years of relative stagnation, during which overdues
reached a very high level, both short- and medium-term lending have picked
up considerably during the past two years. This is attributable to the re-
moval of some rigidities in loan criteria and procedures and the rapidly
increasing demand for credit in the Pochampad Project area as well as an
improving repayment record.
51.       It would thus appear that the credit institutions are in a position
to continue to meet project area farmers short- and medium-term credit needs
and no special steps need to be taken under the project at present.
April 1976
.142



ATNEX 11
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Tentative Build-UJp of Extension Services
Year
1         2          3
Area Covered (ha)
NSP LBC                       67,000    198,000   224,000    281,000    357,000
NSP RBC                     151,000    311,000   320,000    06,000    475,000
Pochampad                     30,000     61,000   103,000    103,000    103,000
Tungabhadra                     -        65,000    70,000       80,000      95,000
Total                    248,000    635,000   717,000    870,000  1,030,000
Cultivators (No)
NSP LBC                       19,100     56,60o    64,000       80,300    101,700
NSP RBC                      50,000    103,700   206,700    135,300    158,300
Pochampad                     13,600     27,700    46,800       46,800      h6,800
Tungabhadra                     -        10,800    11.700       13,300      15.800
Total                     82,700    198,800   229,200    275,700    322,600
Village Extension Workers (No)
NSP LBC                           24         113       113         127         1h5
NSP RBC                           50         109        llb        158         158
Pochampad                         25          50        85          85          85
Tungabhadra                        -         2z9        29          29          30
Total                          99        301        341         399         399
Capital Costs (Rs '000)
NSP LBC                          957         310       160         94h         370
NSP RBC                          753         235        10         921         420
Pochampad                        934         169        77           -         370
Tungabhadra                        -      1.176           -          -           -
Total                      2b          190                    18          1,160
Operating Costs (Rs '000)
NSP LBC                          700      1,125      1,316       2,039       2,039
NSP RBC                          492         659       913       1,407       1,469
Pochampad                        435         592       783         783         783
Tungabhadra                        -         525       548         566         578
Total                      1,627       2,901      3,560       4,795       4,860
143-



ANNEX 12
Page  1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Agricultural Production and Marketing
1. Production
A.   The Project Areas
1.        The four sub-project areas are:  Nagarjunasagar Left and Right
Banks, the Pochanpad Command, and the Tungabhadra High Level Canal Command.
The two Nagarjunasagar commands are divided into areas irrigated prior to June
1976, and those that will come under irrigation as a result of the project.
B.   Topography and Soils
2.        Topography. The Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad project areas extend
over a number of sub-catchments within the main river system. The topography
is uneven with slopes ranging from 1% to 4%. Several minor seasonal streams
cross the area, which has enabled the development of an extensive system of
storage "tanks"; small earth embankments across the streams where water is
stored for supplementary irrigation of rice in the kharif. In the larger
tanks, some of the water is used for rabi irrigation as well. Most of the
tanks are located in the Nagarjunasagar area. In Pochampad, the slopes along
the creeks are steeper and less suited for tank development, but the ground-
water potential is good and a large number of wells, many of which have
engine-driven pumps, have been developed. Tungabhadra topography is also
uneven but because of low rainfall, it has only a limited potential for
tank and.well development.
3.        Soils. The soils in all four areas are similar.  They are of two
types: lateritic red soils, derived from granites, and black soils derived
from basalt rocks. Most of the soils have developed in situ; however, some
part of the Pochampad area are covered by alluvial deposits. In general, the
red soils are coarser but contain a sufficiently high clay fraction to enable
some puddling; with appropriate cultural practices percolation could be
reduced but would still remain high. They are underlain by weathered murrum
rock which permits a gradual increase in plough depth. The red soils require
considerably larger water quantit es than the black soils.  The latter are
deeper with higher clay content suitable for rice growing. The same
characteristics make groundnut cultivation more difficult, due to drainage
problems. In the past, some salinization of black soils has occured, due
to poor irrigation practices. The distribution of the two soil types is
approximately:
144



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Nagarjunasagar
Left Bank   Right Bank    Pochampad    Tungabhadra
Red           70%         50%          67%             20%
Black         30%         50%          33%             80%
4.        Soil fertility tests indicate the need for phosphates, especially on
red soils. A well defined "threshold effect" has been observed. Small doses
(30 kg/ha of P205) have a proportionately smaller effect on yields than
higher rates of applications, because of an initial requirement to saturate
the colloidal complex. The potash status is satisfactory for the present
lower yield levels but will have to be augmented to create a high yield
potential.
C.   The Present Agronomic Situation
5.        Present cropping patterns have been derived from the land  revenue
records and from information gathered during field visits. They are sum-
marized in Table 1. The present yield levels are shown in Table 2.
6.        With the exception of a number of small areas in the already irri-
gated portions of the Pochampad Command, no systematic command area develop-
ment has taken place. The strong tradition of rice growing in Andhra Pradesh,
however, is making farmers level any land they plant to rice. Within two or
at most three years of irrigation water becoming available, farmers can attain
zero slopes and subdivide their holding into small enough fields to ensure
a high degree of water control. This development seems slower and less
competently executed in Tungabhadra than in the three other areas. For crops
other than rice, leveling is generally unsatisfactory and slow. Inadequate
on-farm development has resulted in considerable field water losses, and poor
performance of high-yielding varieties of non-rice crops, which, therefore,
are only slowly becoming accepted. Owing to an uneven water supply, yields of
traditional varieties are also low.
D.   Major Crops
7.        Rice is the farmers' first choice whenever irrigation water is
available, be it from tanks, wells or canals. The most common variety in
the kharif is Mashuri, It takes about 120 days from transplanting to harvest,
is a fairly good yielder and fetches a sizeable premium over the more recently
developed, shorter term and higher yielding varieties HYV. Unlike the latter,
it is also weakly photosensitive which enables it to be planted over a
longer span of time and still ripen after the cessation of the monsoon rains.
At present, irrigation is available from July to April in NSP. As a result,
considerable areas of rabi rice are grown. Most of the rabi varieties are the
recently developed short-term HYVs.
145



ANNEX 12
Page 3
8.        The All-India Coordinated Rice Improvement Program (AICRIP) aims
at developing high yielding varieties that will have the flavor and milling
quality of Mashuri but will have a shorter growing season, thus saving on
irrigation requirements. For the kharif season considerable farmer resistance
can be expected to any change to high yielding varieties unless the water
supply regime forces them to plant later.
9.        Sorghum is at present grown primarily for fodder in the irrigated
areas of the Nagarjunasagar sub-projects. In the areas not yet receiving
water, it is grown as a dual-purpose grain/fodder crop. The variety in
common use is a tall-growing, fodder type, that is able to give acceptable
yields, especially of stover, even when water is in short supply.
10.       India has a good record in developing sorghum hybrids and more
recently synthetic grain sorghums that give a much higher grain yield than the
indigenous varieties, without significantly lowering the yield of leaf, only
that of stems. A more recent and promising development is the introduction of
straight varieties with a grain yield comparable to that of the hybrids. The
more progressive farmers are exploiting these advances. There is sufficient
evidence that in the Nagarjunasagar area, and possibly also in Pochampad,
properly leveled land can be planted to hybrid or other high yielding sorghum
varieties with only minimal supplementary irrigation in the kharif, provided
water can be made available after germination to aid establishment. With an
improved extension service, coupled with the progress of CAD, the crop will
regain, or continue to maintain, its importance. This is important for
livestock and particularly for the working oxen, because rice straw, the
alternative fodder after irrigation is introduced, is nutritionally less
valuable. Farmers recognize that rice straw feed is inadequate for animals
expected to meet peak land preparation requirements in July and August. The
hybrid sorghums recently released ratoon well under irrigation and many
farmers are already taking advantage of this. The trend is expected to
continue.
11.       Groundnuts are both of the bunch and the spreading type. The latter,
because of dormancy after maturing, is the first choice for the kharif season.
The main agronomic problems encountered are waterlogging on the black soils
and some minor element deficiencies. Both are being overcome by the more
progressive farmers through suitable cultural practices and foliar application
of trace elements. At least three new varieties are under advanced trials and
a yield expectation of two tons/ha should soon be within reach of good far-
mers. An interesting new development in Andhra Pradesh is the growing of
groundnuts in rice stubbles where they require only small quantities of water
for reasonable yields.
12.       Pulse crops grown are green and black gram, red gram or pigeon
peas, horse gram, and, to a lesser extent, chickpea. They are almost
invariably grown either without irrigation in the kharif or after rice
on residual moisture in the rabi. According to the International Crops
Research Institute of the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), which collaborates
with the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture in Nigeria on
* 14'6



ANNEX 12
Page 4
legume research, prospects for increasing yields of pigeon peas are good;
short-term strains have been identified which could be easily incorporated
into the cropping patterns of the project areas.
13.       Oilseeds, suitable for the project areas are castor and sesamum.
Dwarf, quicker-maturing varieties of castor are being introduced. They take
120 to 150 days to mature instead of the previous 240 to 270 days. Yields,
too, are increasing and two tons/ha under controlled conditions are easily
obtainable. Some of the newer varieties can be grown in rabi.
14.       Sesamum is a light yielder and, in some ways, a difficult crop
to grow. However, it is also a low water user and the newly developed,
non-shattering varieties are said to be suitable for planting in rice stub-
bles where they will produce a worthwhile crop if irrigated only at the
establishment stage.
15.       Sunflowers have been tried repeatedly but have made little head-
way. Under the climatic conditions of Andhra Pradesh there are problems
in heading and the crop is also subject to bird damage. Many difficulties
will have to be overcome before planting on a significant scale is possible.
16.       Pearl millet (bajra) is becoming an important foodgrain following
the development of hybrids that are not subject to green-ear disease which
affected the earlier releases. Yields and, in contrast to hybrid sorghum,
also cooking quality, have been satisfactory and no market resistance has
been encountered. The future of the crop would appear to depend on con-
tinuing green-ear resistance and the availability of irrigation. The syn-
thetic strains and straight varieties of pearl millet do not, at present,
show the same promise as sorghum.
17.       Cereal and minor millets, are wheat, finger millet (Eleusine
indica), Italian millet (Setaria italica) and Panicum millet (Panicum
miliaceum). Wheat is of minor importance. Under controlled conditions,
yields are only about 800 kg/ha. Finger millet is grown where a good water
supply is available. It has a place in the cropping pattern since it is
resistant to saline and alkaline conditions and requires less water than
rice. The other two millets are prima facie dryland crops, or are only
likely to be grown on poor, very sandy and gravelly soils where no other
cereal is likely to succeed.
18.       Chillies are an important cash crop in Andhra Pradesh.  Its culti-
vation has reached a high standard. It is grown either under irrigation or
under rainfed conditions. Several small farmers have changed to specialized
chilli growing as the best way to maximize the cash return for their labor.
Depending on the increasing export markets in the Persian Gulf and the suc-
cessful further development of the already existing marketing organization,
the future of the crop seems assured.
147



ANNEX 12
Page 5
19.       Irrigated Cotton is grown mostly in the Nagarjunasagar Right Bank
area. Rainfed cotton is grown in the Tungabhadra area. In Tungabhadra
it is invariably a mixed crop, mostly with minor millets and gram. In Nagar-
junasagar, hirsutum and barbadense varieties and hybrids are grown; in Tunga-
bhadra, "desi" (indigenous) i.e. mainly the arboreum and herbaceum species.
Spraying in the Nagarjunasagar areas is excessive at present: many farmers
spray up to 30 times in the growing season and do so on a routine basis,
without reference to actual pest attacks. Conversely, spraying is minimal in
Tungabhadra and in the rainfed cotton areas of Nagarjunasagar.
20.       The cotton breeding program pursued by India has been the subject of
much discussion, the most recent of which is set out in the Integrated Cotton
Development Project. 1/ It is applicable to Andhra Pradesh and the release of
new, higher yielding and shorter term varieties of hirsutum and barbadense, as
well as specific and interspecific hybrids is expected, after a few years, as
a regular feature. The growing of the lower yielding and lower value arboreum
varieties has declined with the advent of irrigation and is likely to do so
also in the future. Pest control based on a careful measuring of infestation
has already been introduced in the Guntur area. First results are sufficiently
encouraging to assume that the system will be practiced wherever irrigated
cotton is grown.
21.       Maize is a major crop only in the Pochampad area, although there
seems to be no agronomic reason why it should not be grown in the other
project areas. Following land shaping and careful attention to correct plant
population before the plants become too big, timely weed control and fertili-
zation, good yields have been achieved by progressive farmers. A hybrid,
released over ten years ago, occupies most of the area under irrigation.
Recently a synthetic, Pioneer 1, has given good results. As it is fairly easy
to produce seed, its spread in the Pochampad area is likely to be rapid.
E.   Irrigation Development in Nagarjunasagar
22.       Cropping patterns and irrigation intensities would be constrained
by the water available in the reservoir and by the capacity of the convey-
ance system at the time of peak water demand for paddy: August September
and October. Taking Bank assumptions for water demand and field conveyance
efficiencies (Annex 5), the total area under kharif paddy is limited to about
315,000 ha. Possible irrigation intensities in the kharif for upland crops
depend on the amount of paddy grown; irrigation intensities in rabi are
constrained by the water availability in the reservoir.
23.       As long as upstream water use remains below the water allocations
set by the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal (Annex 5), additional quantities
of water will flow into the NSP reservoir over and above the Tribunal's
allocation to NSP and to Krishna Delta projects. In kharif, NSP main canals
will run full, with the excess inflows stored in the reservoir or spilled if
the reservoir is full. In rabi, water stored in the reservoir would be
available for additional irrigation in the NSP and in the Krishna Delta.
148



ANNEX 12
Page 6
24.       Because overall water use efficiencies at present are considerably
lower than the design values taken by the Tribunal when allocating water to
the command areas, excess water is required to meet irrigation demand. A
design cropping pattern for the two NSP sub-project areas has been drawn up
which is expected to produce an acceptable rate of return for the investments.
The water demand of this cropping pattern has been calculated based on present
conveyance efficiencies but assuming field efficiencies after full CAD (Annex
5). For the next two decades, because of the excess water available, irriga-
tion intensities in rabi will probably be higher than assumed. However,
because of the lower field irrigation efficiencies, at present, and the
limited capacity of the two main canals, the kharif irrigation intensity is
likely to be lower than the design value.
25.       Figures 1 and 2, and Table 3 illustrate the design cropping pat-
terns for the LB and RB commands. They envisage only supplementary irri-
gation for groundnuts, sorghum, pulses, oilseeds and minor millets in August-
October because of conveyance constraints. By October of each year, water
levels in the reservoir would enable fairly accurate forecasts of the water
available for irrigation in rabi and of the area that can be irrigated in
excess of the design cropping plan. Farmers would be able to plant addi-
tional areas of rabi groundnuts, pearl millet and sorghum. Table 2 shows
the expected yields.
26.       Without the project, the areas not presently irrigated will continue
to be farmed on much the same cropping patterns as at present. Yields would
increase at about 2% per annum, compounded. In the already irrigated areas
the ones that received water more recently would attain the level of de-
velopment reached by the tracts that have received the water earlier. As
Figures 3 and 4 show, there is little scope for further intensification. On
the contrary, as the "without project" cropping pattern on the already irri-
gated areas uses just as much water as the "with project" design cropping
pattern over the total command and, as without the project water use effi-
ciencies are unlikely to increase significantly, upstream developments will
make it increasingly difficult to sustain present yields and cropping inten-
sities.
Command Area Development
27.       Command area development will take place on 72,000 ha.  It is
expected to show benefits over irrigation without CAD, in two ways.
(a) Water use efficiencies below the pipe, i.e. in the field
channels and within the fields themselves, will increase
from about 45% to 65%. The CAD itself will have only a
marginal effect on the cropping pattern but will enable
it to be implemented on the entire command.
149



ANNEX 12
Page 7
(b) The stage will be set for the individual farmer to in-
crease his yields and production, hitherto constrained
by his irrigation practices, provided he is able, at the
same time, to upgrade his farming practices and, where
necessary, increase and intensify his inputs applications.
28.       A major function of the reorganized and strengthened extension
service (Annex 11) is the backstopping and support of the farmers coming under
CAD, thereby ensuring continuing accelerated growth of the farm production
made possible by CAD.
29.       Table 4 shows the situation expressed in units of 100 ha.  In
the Nagarjunasagar project areas, it shows the expected effects of irriga-
tion only (paras 22-26) and irrigation plus CAD. In Pochampad, where the
area is already irrigated, without CAD, only moderate yield increases are
expected. In Tungabhadra, irrigation will be available in the proposed
CAD project area outside the framework of the present composite project.
Therefore, the table shows only the expected effects of CAD over the expected
irrigation only situation.
II. Marketing and Storage
Marketing
30.       Andhra Pradesh is producing rice in excess of its internal require-
ments; is the major castor bean producer of India and one of its major cotton-
growing states. There is usually a surplus of other foodgrains, with the
exception of wheat.
31.       Farmers sell their produce to private merchants and some of their
rice, (the assessed levy) to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) who normally
buy in the form of husked rice from the mills. The FCI now plans to buy also
from farmers, to arrange for custom husking and to build their own mills.
It is making attempts to control the quality of milling, however with invest-
ment constraints and a shortage of spare parts, progress in this field is
slow.
32.       The Cooperatives, through the State Cooperative Marketing Federa-
tion are also buyers of farm products and act, within the State, as a paral-
lel organization to the FCI. The State Cooperative Marketing Federation will
buy irrespective of whether they can sell immediately. As they have suffi-
cient funds, they are able to give advances on purchases.
33.       The major influence on the market is the fact that rice may not
be traded to another State without GOI's permission and often the State
puts restrictions on inter-District, or inter-regional foodgrain movements.
Private buyers, and FCI over and above its mandatory buying obligation,
restrict purchases until restrictions on grain movements are lifted. Once
production increases from the project materialize, it will become essential
150



ANNEX 12
Page 8
for FCI to become a buyer of last resort for rice, sorghum, groundnuts and
pearl millets; also they will have to ensure that the farmer is paid without
delay.
Storage
34.       The State Cooperative Marketing Federation owns some storage but
for most of their needs, and the FCI for all its needs, rely on GOI's Central
Warehousing Corproation and GOAP's State Warehousing Corporation. The two
corporations operate own and rent premises and they have long-standing plans
to expand their own facilities, most of which, at present, is flat storage.
The State Warehousing Corporation receives a grant from GOI which GOAP is
obligated to match. Within the last year,the funds for both organizations
were severely restricted, thereby delaying the construction of new facilities.
In the past, turnover and disposal of grain from storage was rapid, storage
space rented cheaply and became an unattractive investment for private enter-
prise. Unless GOI and GOAP are able to implement their proposed warehouse
development program, production increases from the project could result in a
severe shortage of storage space in the project areas.
35.       Both corporations will store for all customers and their documents
are negotiable with the cooperative banks. However, in practice, they do
most of their business with FCI, the State Cooperative Marketing Federation,
private grain merchants and processors. Very little business is done with
farmers and the small producer cooperatives.
36.       Training in storage technologies are given by the Central and State
Warehousing Corporations to merchants and traders and by GOI's Save Grain
Campaign staff to farmers. The latter train farmers selected by the Block
Development Officers and expect trainees to impart their knowledge to others.
They also carry out fumigation and vermin poisoning of farmers' stores. A
one ton grain storage bin has been designed, costing Rs 330 and is being
produced against firm orders by the Agro-Industries Corporation. Its market-
ing channels have not been decided and consequently demonstration and distri-
bution is slow. There would appear to be a scope for coordination with the
Extension Service, possibly by Save Grain Campaign Experts acting as SMSs
(Annex 11).
April 1976
151



ANNEX 12
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Present Cropping Pattern in the Project Areas
Nagariunasagar Left Bank   Nagarjunasagar R1ght Bank   Pochampad   Tungabhadra
Irrigated  Not irrigated   Irrigated  Not irrigated    % area                % area
(% of area) -----   -----  (% of area) -----
Rice                  Kharif                      76             15              39              5              44              4
Rabi                        66              -              12             -
Sorghum               Kharif                       16            30              12             12              24             10
Rabi                         8             10               6             5
Groundnuts            Kharif                        8            20               5              8               2             16
Rabi                         8              -               9              -
Pulses & oilseeds   Kharif                          -            15              12             39               7              3
Rabi                         -              -              26              -
Pearl millet          Kharif                        5             _               -              1               -              7
Rabi                         -              -               5             -
Minor millets                                       -             5               -             30               2            58
Chillies                                            -             5              12              -               2             1
Cotton                                              -             -              17              -               -             1(+)
Maize                                               -             -               -              -             29
Total                                       187           100             155            100             110            100
l/  Irrigated from tanks                                                      @                                   8



ANNEX 12
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADE5H IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Nagarjunasagar Sub-project Areas
Present and Expected Future Yields (tons/ha)
Future
Present       Without              With CAD
CAD        Full irri.  Partial irri.
Rice:                  kharif        2.2            2.7            4.0
rabi          2.L            2.9           4.5
Sugarcane                           60.0           72.0           85.0
Groundnuts:            kharif        0.8            1.0            1.5
rabi          1.0            1.2           1.7
Cotton                               0.9            1.1            2.0
Chillies                             0.7            0.9            1.2
Sorghum:               plant         0.5            o.6            4.0          3.0
ratoon        0.3           0.4            3.0
Minor millets:         kharif        0.5            0.6            1.0            .75
rabi         0.3            0.35           1.0
Pulses and Oilseeds:  kharif         0.6            0.7            1.5          1.3
rabi                        1.0             1.5
on residual moisture        0.3            0.35           0.5
Pearl millet:          kharif        0.5            0.6            3.5
rabi          1.5            1.8            3.5
Sugarcane                           60.0           72.0           85.0
Note:  In the Tungabhadra area present and future yields are expected to be 80%
of those in the other three project areas.
153



ANNEX 12
Table 3
INDIA
ANDHFA PRAL5BI IRRIGATION AND CAD OOIPCOITR PROJECT
Design Cropping Pattern, Nagariunasagar Commands
LEFT BANK            RIGHT BANK              TOTAL
(357,085 ha)          (428,340 ha)          (785.X25 ha)
area (000 ha)%    area (000 ha              area (000 ha)
Rice:               black soils    50.0        1          98.5        23       148.5        19
red soils      110.7        31        55.7        13        166.4        21
Groundnuts:             kharif      60.7        17         38.6         9        99.3        13
rabi       53.6        15         42.8        10         96.4       12
Chillies                            17.9         5         47.1        11        65.0         8
Cotton                              L4.3         a         51.4       12         65.7         8
Minor millets                        3.5         1          4.3         1          7.8        1
Sorghum:                plant       42.8        12         90.0       21        132.8        17
ratoon     23.6         8         90.0        21        118.6        15
Pulses and Oilseeds:   kharif       53.6        15         38.6         9        92.2        12
rabi       17.9         5            -         -         17.9        2
residual moisture    42.8         12         72.8        17       115.6        15
Pearl millet                        42.6        12         38.6         9         81.4       10
Sugarcane                            3.6         1          4.3         1         7.9         1
Total                        542.8      152        672.7       157      1,227.8       154
IF3 M;
* X
154



INDIA
ANDhRA PRADESH IRRICATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Present and Etpected Yields and Production
(far 1cn ha units)
PRESENT SITUATION                                                           EXPECTED FLTURE DEVELOPMENT
Area Ne                                   Acea Pat Yet Creiated                      With-nt CAD Project                        With CAD Praiert
Area        Yil1d    Pradu .tion          Area        yield    P         .aduettan  Area        yiald    ProdPntio             Area        Yield    Praduction
(percent)  (tans/ha)      (tans)          (pet) (t)  (tans/ha)    (tans)            (nernent)  (tons/ha)       (tons)          (vereent)  (tons/ha)      (tans)
Nagarionasagar
Left Bnas
Ries         Kh    76           22          117.2             13 7        2.          28.6              45          2.7         121.5             45           4.0         180.0
66I             .           1)8.4              2          2.4          4.8              --           .           --               --          45--
SorghuB      Kh    16           0.5           8.0             34          0.5         17.0              12          0.6            7.2            12           3.5          36.0
R      8           0.3           2.4              6          0.3          1.8               8          0.4            3.2             8           3,0          24.0
Greundnsts  Kh       8          0.8           6.4             20          0.8         16.0              17          1.0           17.0             17          1.2 1        I 20.4
R      8           1.0           8.0             --          1.0         --                15          1.2            6.0            15           1.7          25.5
Pearl Millet
Kh     5          0.5            2.5             -           0.                            -           0.6          --               --           --           --
R     --          1.5           --               --          1.5         --                12          1.8          21.6             12          3.5           42.0
Polees and Oil-
sends     Kh    __           0.6            _               15          0.6          9.0              15          0.7          10.5             15           1.3          19.5
R      -          --            --              --            --         --                5           1.0           5.0              5          1.5            7.5
RM 2/ __          0.3            _                2          0.3          0.6              12          0.35          4.2             12          0.5            6.0
Chillies            __          0.7          --                3          0.7          2.1           ,  5           0.9            4.5              5          1.2           6.0
Cotton              --          0.9          --                           0.9                            4          1.1            4.4              4          2             80
Minor MItlets      --           0.5           -               I5           C.5         7.5               1          0.6            0.6              1          0.75          8 75
Sugarcana          _-          60.0          --               --         60.0         --                 1         72.0          72.0               1         85.8          85.0
Total Cropping
Intensity         087           --          --               110           --           -              152          --                           1 052         --           --
Natarjonnasgar
Ripht BaPk
Rica         Kh    39           2.2          85.8              4          2.2          8.8              36          2.7           97.2            36           4.0         144.0
R     12           2.4          28.8              1          2.4          2.4             _-           2.9          --               --          4.5          ---
Sorgh-s      Kh    12           0.)           6.0             17          0.5          8.5              21          0.6           12.6            21           3.8 1/       63.0
R      6          0.3            1.8              2          0.3          0.6              21          0.4            8.4            21          3.0           63.0
Gro-od-ots  Rh       5          0.8           4.0              6          1.8          4.8               9          1.0            9.0              9          1.2 ]J       10.8
R      9           1.0           9.0              1          1.0          1.0              10          1.2          12.0             10          1.7           17.0
Peerl Millnt
Kh    --          0.5            --              --          0.5          --               --          0.6          --               --          --            --
R      5           1.5           7.5              2          1.5          3.0               9          1.8          16.2              9          3.5           31.5
Poises and Oil-
seeds     Kh    12           0.6            7.2            40           0.6         24.0               9          0.7           6.3              9          1.3           11.7
R     --            --           --              --                      -                 -           1.0          --                -          1.5           --
RM-  26          0.3            7.8             --           --         --                17          0.35          6.0             17          0.5            8.5
Chilli..            12          0.7           8.4              3          0.7          2.1              11          0.9            9.9            11           1.2          13.2
Cotten              17          0.9          15.3             --          0.9         --                12          1.1          13.2             12           2.0   /      24.0
Miner Millets       --          0.5           --              30          0.5         15                 1          0.6            0.6              1          0.75 -        0.75
Soasrcsne          --          60.0           --              --         60.0         --                 1         72.0          72.0               1        85.0           85.0
Total Cropping
Intensity         I55           --            --             106           --         --               157          --           --              157           --           --
Rire               44           2.2          96.8                                                       44          2.7         118.8             44          4.0          176.0
Sorghun      Kh    17           0.5           8.5                                                       17          0.6           10.2            17          4.0           68.0
R      7           0.3           2.1                                                       7           0.4           2.8              7          3.0           21.0
Groundnuts           2          0.8           1.6                                                        2          1.0           2.0              2           1.0           3.0
Pilses and Oil-
s.ads     Kh 2/  4           0.6            2.4                                                       4           0.7           2.8              4          1.5            6.0
10i    3           0.3           0.9                                                        3          0.35          1.1              3          0.5            1.5
Minor Muinlto        2          0.5           1.0                                                        2          0.6            1.2             2           1.0           2.0
Chillies             2          0.7           1.4                                                        2          0.9            1.8             2           1.2           2.4
Maize              29           1.5          43.5                                                       29          1.8          52.2             28          4.2          121.8
Total Cropping
Intensity         110           --                                                                                               --              110           --           --
toneabhadra
Rice                                                                                                    30          2.3          69.0             30           3.4         102.0
S.rghan5                                                                                                            0.5            2.5             5           3.4          17.0
Crenadneta                                                                                              IS          8 8           12              15           t.3          20.0
P.lses and Oil-                                                                                                                                                                                          a
seeds     Kh                                                                                           3          0.9           2.7              3          1.3            3.9 9                         M
ed   RM g10                                                                                            0.6           6.0             10          1.3           13.0
Pearl Millet                                                                                            15          0.3           4.5             15           0.4           6.0                         Pr,
Mi.nr Millets                                                                                            2          0.5            1.0             2           0.9           1.8
Chillis                                                                                                  5          0.8           4.0              5           1.0           5.0
CPtton                                                                                                  25          0.9          22.5             25           1.7          42.5
Tntsl Cropping
IntensttY                                                                                              110           --          --              110            --          --
Notes:  1/ With partial irrigation  Js August-Ontober
( -                                  2! RI.Residual Moisture
In                                   Rh-kh-rif (sunnr)  R-bsbi (winter)



INDIA
ANDHRA ?RADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CONPOSITE PROJECT                                  AWEX 12
Figure 1
Design Cropping Pattern, NagarjunasaKa.r  .aft Bank Command
(Cropped Area: 882,000 ac)
Sugarc ne 1%
100          A     S      O      N      D     J    F      M      A     M      J    100
/ \ pk ssS S  4 1Ss \  V   /  groundinuts/
90  /\ \i\ X \  X       >  \  S        /            15%             /              90
80                           Sor   um  ratoon                                      80
t \ \ \ \ \ \ \  \  \ /   /  pulses 5%  /           Legend:
70                                                                                 70
otX  '4, ---               ,F,                                                         : fully irrigated
60                illies 5\ \ \ \                    pe60                                              : pertly irrigated
50 |              d                                  pearl mllet 127 /                                   not irrigated
r-,4     112%
140            red soils 31%                                                      140
30              Rice 45%                                                           30
20                                                                                 20
10                                                                                 10
black soils 114%
s  0~~~~ 
J A       SO          N     D      J     F      M     A      m     J
- --
LI
ON ~   ~        ~      ~H               e/ X                                                                       '



INDIA                                                     ANNEX 12
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CONPOSITE PROJECT                               F      2
Design Cropping Pattern, Nagar,junasagar Right Bank Commanti
(Cropped Area: 1,05!,000 ac)
minor millets 1%                                     c  e 1%
100   J     A      S     0  ,N        D  ,J  ,F       M _ A7, M            J
90  X e S   S      f ee    &<d        groundnuts       10%/
A \\ \ \\ \ \ \ \ +NW um    21%  /              Legend:
80                                                                                      D /   fully irrigated
ratoon
70-
70   -Ipartly irrigated
60/                  cotton 12%
/ __/  : not irrigated
50-       /chillies 11%
40-     S riui hui \9i \ \ \  g                /pearl millet 9%
30/               red 13%
20-
Rice 36%
10_                                    uls   7
black 23%
J     A     S     0     N      D     J     F     M      A     M     J
ul
-J



INDIA
ANNEX 12
ANDHR& PRALESHI IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT                              Figure 3
Present Cropping Pattern
Nagarjunasagar Left Bank
Composite Cropping Pattern of Areas Already Developed
J     A     S  , 0  , N         D  , J      F      M  , A      M  __J
Groundnuts  8%
90                                          Ries 8%
Sorghum 16%
80    /                     /   Sorghum  8%
70
60
40       |         Rice  76%                        Rice  58%
30
20
10                                              Groundmits  8%
Pearl ail1. 
J     A     S     0      N     D      J     F     M      A            J4  J
0,



INDIA
ANDHRA PRA1ESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT                                 ANNEX 12
Present Cropping Pattern                                             Figure 4
Nagarjunasagar Right Bank
Composite Cropping Pattern of Areas Already Developed
J     A     S     0      N     D      J     F     M      A     M      J
100-
Rice  12%
90        Pulses  12%
80          Sorghum  12%   7                             iet%
Sorghum  6%
70              Groundnuts  5%
60                 Chillies  12%
50        /               Cotton  17%
30
Pulses on RM
Rice  39%                26%
20/
10 -AI-
Groundnuts 9%
CDI
J     A     S      0     N     D      J     F     M      A     M      J                           Jl1 N
Note:  RM    residual moisture
kD



ANNEX 13
Page  1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
(NSP Command Area)
General
1.        Present agricultural practices in the project areas, and the expec-
ted changes in cropping patterns, yields and production are described in
Annex 12. This annex discusses impact on the individual farm. The purpose
of this analysis is:
(a) to estimate effects of prcject components on farm
incomes for representative farm sizes and cropping
patterns in order to determine their distributional
impact;
(b) to compare income levels of project farmers with
those of farmers in other areas;
(c) to determine the capacity of project beneficiaries to
repay part of the project cost;
(d) to analyze effects of different Government policies
regarding water charges; and
(e) to estimate economic returns to water for different
crops in order to guide the Government in its water
allocation decisions.
Crop Input Requirements
2.        Present and projected unit input requirements under the project
are given in Tables 1 and 2. The estimated current levels of inputs are
derived from an agricultural survey carried out in the Pochampad and NSP,
LBC command areas in 1974. These results have been adjusted and updated
information supplied by the Department of Agriculture. Future requirements
are based on recommendations by the Department of Agriculture and on ob-
served cultural practices of progressive farmers in the area.
Crop Budgets
3.        Projected financial crop budgets after full development are pre-
sented in Table 3. The prices usedl for this analysis are discussed in
Annex 14, Appendix 1. Both family and hired labor have been costed at
160



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Rs 4.00 per man-day, which is approximately equal to the average market
wage. The imputed cost of a pair of bullocks to the owner is roughly
equal to the daily rental charge (Rs 8.00 excluding driver). This cost
has consequently been applied to all crops.
Economic Returns to Irrigation
4.        Water is more scarce than the other main factors of production
(i.e., land and labor). Consequently, preference should be given to those
crops that give the highest economic return per unit of water. Table 4
gives both the net economic return per ha and per cubic meter of water (at
the pipe outlet). The results show:
(a) ID crops in general give higher returns per unit
of water than IW crops;
(b) supplementary irrigation of ID crops during kharif
typically give higher returns than rabi irrigation, and
(c) rice should not be grown on red soils.
5.        These findings are important for the water allocation within the
command areas. The ID localization should be strictly enforced. In prin-
ciple, farmers are allowed to grow any crop on IW lands, but in many cases
the irrigation system is operated in such a way that long duration ID crops
such as cotton and chillies cannot be grown. Since these crops give sub-
stantially higher returns to water than rice, the operation of the irrigation
system should be such that ID crops are encouraged rather than discouraged.
In the long run, the IW areas on red soils should be relocalized to ID.
Model Sizes for the Farm Budget Analysis 1/
6.        Households in the project area can, somewhat arbitrarily, be
classified into four groups according to their economic situation:
Landless workers most of whom earn their living as daily
workers in the fields, in construction or distribution,
make up about 60% of the households in project areas.
Sub-marginal farmers cultivate less than 2.0 ha of land,
which is the minimum area of unirrigated land that is
required to support an average famly. Frequently, half
of the household income is from work outside the family
farm. In the farm budget analysis, a 1.0 ha farm has
1/   Farm size distributions for NSP Left Bank, NSP Right Bank,
Pochampad and Tungabhadra Command Areas are shown in Table 9.
161



ANNEX 13
Page 3
been chosen to represent those 20% of the households
that operate less than 2.0 ha.
Small farmers cultivate an area of 2.0 to 4.0 ha and under
unirrigated condition they typically have a per capita
income that is well below the national average. About 10%
of the housholds belong to this category, which is represented
in the farm budget analysis by a 3.0 ha farm.
Medium farmers cultivate 4.0 to 6.0 ha that under unirri-
gated conditions give them an income fairly close to the
national average. With irrigation, their incomes are more
than double the average. About 5% of the households belong
to this catgeory, which is represented by a 5.0 ha farm.
Large farmers own more than 6 ha and constitute the rural
elite. In the Nagarjunasagar command areas, they constitute
about 6% of the households but own roughly half of the
land. It is expected that many of these holdings will be
split up when the land ceiling legislation is strictly enforced.
However, a large number are joint family holdings within the
limits of the law. 1/. The average holding size for "large"
farmers is roughly 10.0 ha and this size has been chosen
to represent this group in the farm budget analysis.
Farm Budget Analyses
7.        Farm budgets have only been calculated for the two Nagarjunasagar
command areas. These budgets, however, give a fairly close picture also
of the effects of the CAD and agricultural extension program in the Pochampad
and Tungabhadra areas. Since the already developed areas of NSP will ex-
perience a gradual decrease of their water allocation, eight farm models have
been chosen for the budget analyses: 1.0, 3.0, 5.0 and 10.0 ha farms, pre-
sently with irrigation and without irrigation.
8.        Budgets on an annual cash flow basis for the eight representative
farm models are given in Tables 3 to 5. The following assumptions have been
made in the analyses:
1/   The land ceiling in Andhra Pradesh depends on the soil classification
and is, for a family of five, 35 to 54 ac (approximately 14 to 22 ha)
of unirrigated or 10 to 27 ac (approximately 4 to 11 ha) of irrigated
land.
162



ANNEX 13
Page 4
(a) Crop Yields and Total Input Requirements
Projected yields used in the analyses are given in Annex 12.
Crop inputs have been estimated based on the input requirements
given in Tables 1 and 2 1/.
(b) Hired Farm Labor
The monthly labor requirements (based on Table 2) have been
calculated for each farm size. Since the number of family
members varies with the farm size, the total labor availability
for each farm model has been calculated. The size of hired
labor thus depends on availability of family labor. However,
most "marginal" farmers hire labor during the harvest season.
The family members of "large" farmers rarely work in the fields,
and consequently, it is assumed that they use only hired labor.
At full development, it is assumed that about 30, 60, 75 and 100%
of the field labor requirements of a 1.0, 3.0, 5.0 and 10.0 ha
farm, respectively, are supplied by hired labor.
(c) Non-Farm Incomes
These have not been included in the analysis due to lack of data.
In general, however, they constitute about one-third to one half
of the total income of "marginal" farmers, and their relative
importance declines, with larger farm sizes. Consequently,
the farm budgets underestimate the income levels and give an
exaggerated picture of relative income differences.
(d) Prices
Present and future production and inputs are valued using the
projected financial prices (in 1976 Rupees) which are discussed
in Annex 14, Appendix 1.
(e) Subsidies
Compared to current world market prices, the prices that Indian
farmers pay for nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers are heavily
subsidized. However, the projected 1985 world market prices
(in constant 1976 terms) are fairly close to present Indian
prices. Consequently, for the farm budget analysis, it is
assumed that the present controlled prices will remain unchanged. 2/
1/   Only fertilizer, manpower and animal power requirements are shown
in Tables 1 and 2. Although seed and pesticide requirements have not
been shown, they have been taken into account in both financial and
economic analyses.
2/   Alternatively, it might be assumed that the rates of subsidy remain
unchanged. This assumption would lead to a minor increase in the
estimated net farm incomes.                                                 163



ANNEX 13
Page 5
(f)  Cropping Patterns
Reflect the average for the project area, but give a somewhat
higher intensity for the small farms and somewhat lower for
the large farms (Table 8).
(g)  Irrigation Costs
Based on the analysis in paras. 13 to 31, it has been assumed
that water rates, commercial crop rates and land cesses would
be kept at their present levels (approximately Rs 100/ha)
and that the betterment levy would be increased and give
an annual cost of Rs 500 per ha. The annual repayment of
the on-farm development loan would amount to Rs 250 per ha.
(h)  Family Sizes
Based on the 1974 agro-economic survey, the following family
sizes have been assumed:
Hloldings       Number of Persons    Number of Workers
1.0 ha               6.2                  2.6
3.0 ha               6.8                  2.5
5.0 ha               7.3                   2.4
10.0 ha               8.0                   2.3
The decline in the number of workers per holding in spite of
increasing family sizes is due to a declining labor force
participation ratio for women. For the "submarginal" farmers,
the female participation ratio is roughly equal to the average
for the whole population. None of the women on the "large"
farms would normally take part in agricultural work.
Distributional Effects of the Project
9.        For farms that would be provided with irrigation under the project,
the income levels would change as fo:Llows:
164



ANNEX 13
Page 6
/a
Net Farm Income (Rs)          Relative Increase
Farm Model    Area        P        W       WI      W       due to Project % /b
1.0 ha       LBC      1,380    1,690   2,800   5,620             230
RBC     1,190    1,560   2,660   5,870             280
3.0 ha       LBC      3,870    4,830   8,150  15,530             220
RBC     3,710    5,280   7,650  16,870             220
5.0 ha       LBC      6,050    7,700  12,850  24,700             220
RBC     5,880    8,220  12,050  27,750             240
10.0 ha       LBC    11,210   14,090  23,260  46,770              230
RBC    10,680   15,910  24,300  54,690             240
/a   P = Present, W = Future without Project, WI = Future with irrigation
infrastructure but no CAD, W = Future with Project (irrigation
infrastructure, CAD and agricultural extension services).
/b   Relative increase = (W - W)/W.
10.       Net farm incomes would more than triple due to the full project
(irrigation infrastructure, CAD and extension services). However, the in-
crease before water charges is substantially higher. The proposed water
charges would collect approximately one-seventh of the incremental farm income.
11.       The increase in net farm incomes due to the irrigation infrastruc-
ture is relatively low because of the proposed high water charges. These
charges are approximately equal to 23% of the net incremental farm income
before water charges.
12.       Few data exist on non-farm activities in the project area but
it is estimated that the average per capita income in the project area is
about Rs 800 (US$90) at present. After full development has been reached
in the 1990s, the average income would be about Rs 1,600 (US$180) after
allowing for expected population increase. The distribution of land is such
that about three-quarters of the families have a per capita income less than
the average for the project areas.
Recovery of Project Costs
13.       The cost of NSP irrigation infrastructure under the project is
approximately Rs 1,800 per ac (Rs 4,500 per ha). The average cost for the
irrigation system in the already developed parts of NSP is Rs 2,000 per ac(Rs
5,000 per ha), since the main canals through these areas have been designed
165



ANNEX 13
Page  7
to serve also the new areas. The average cost for canal and drainage infra-
structure is thus about 1,900 per ac (4,700 per ha). The total sunk costs
in the dam, expressed in 1976 currency values, are approximately Rs 2 billion.
Some of the costs for the dam should, however, be allocatd to the hydroelec-
tric power station presently under construction. Since there are no esta-
blished figures on the projected power output three quarters of the dam costs
have, for the purpose of this analvsis, been allocated to the irrigation
component. Total cost for the dam and the canals are on order of Rs 2,600
per ac (6,500 per ha). The annual capital recovery cost (at 10% interest
and discounted over 30 years) would amount to about Rs 275 per ac (Rs 680
per ha).
14.       In principle, the betterment levy is the prime vehicle for recover-
ing the capital costs of irrigation projects in Andhra Pradesh. The 1969 act
provides for a levy of up to half the increase in land values due to the
project 1/ paid in 20 annual installments that include interest on the outstand-
ing amount. Land values in the already developed parts of NSP increased from
about Rs 500 per ac (Rs 1,250 per ha) to more than Rs 5,000 per ac (12,500 per
ha). This would permit a levy on the order of Rs 2,000 to 2,500 per ac
or Rs 230 ( Rs 570 per ha) to 290 per ac (Rs 720 per ha) p.a. inclusive of
interest. At present, however, the levy is purely nominal: Rs 5 and Rs 10
per ac Rs (13 and 25 per ha) per year for ID and IW lands, respectively.
15.       Of greater practical importance at present are the water rates
that form a part of the land revenue.  Their level depends on both the type
of irrigation provided and the soil classification. They typically amount to
Rs 20 and Rs 30 per ac (Rs 50 and 75 per ha) for ID and IW lands, respectively.
The land cess, a local tax, is calculated as a 37% addition to the land revenue,
which brings the water charges up to about Rs 27 and Rs 41 per ac (Rs 68 and
103 per ha) for ID and IW lands, respectively.
16.       Certain commercial crops, such as cotton and sugarcane, are assessed
special taxes when irrigated. These taxes typically range from Rs 15 to Rs 25
per ac (Rs 38 to 63 per ha). The total water related charges are roughly Rs
50 per ac (Rs 125 per ha) for single irrigated ID and IW lands. Since the
design cropping pattern assumes some double irrigation, the average charge
would amount to about Rs 62 per ac (Rs 150 per ha).
17.       A bill is now pending before the AP legislature which would substitute
the betterment levy with a special tax on certain irrigated lands. This tax,
which would be paid over a 10 year period, would raise the total water
changes to about Rs 110 per ac (Rs 270 per ha).
18.       The arrangements for recovery of the costs for on-farm development
are discussed in Annex 10. The average cost for CAD would be about Rs 2,100
per ha (Annex 10). Under the project, the farmers would pay the full costs
for civil works and a 15% surcharge on the civil works costs to cover a part
of GOAP's engineering overhead. Based on surveys in the project area, it
1/   In the law the increase is defined on a "before and after" basis.
166



ANNEX 13
Page 8
has been estimated that about 20% of the farmers would be ineligible for
ordinary bank loans and would have to take special loans at 14% interest.
Thus, the average repayment would amount to about Rs 300 per ha in nominal
terms. Taking into account the expected rate of inflation, this gives a
cost of about Rs 250 per ha (in 1976 currency value) after the two-year
grace period. This figure has been used in the farm budget analysis.
Farmers' Ability to Pay Water Charges
19.       For the estimation of the farmers' ability and willingness to pay
water charges, the concept of project rent had to be introduced. In simple
terms, project rent can be defined as the incremental net income when all
factors of production, except water and related services supplied by the pro-
ject, are given the rewards that are required for their cooperation. Project
rent is equal to the net incremental farm income minus the necessary rewards
to family labor and management for their extra input of labor and entrepre-
neurship.
20.       This calculation is complicated by the uncertainty about the yields
and the crop prices that the farmer can expect. One way of handling this
problem is by introducing explicit probability distributions and a function
that shows the "utility" or "value" of different income levels. (The theory
behind the utility function is that the value of an additional dollar is
less if the income already is US$100 than if it is only US$50.) Unfortun-
ately, this would lead to severe estimation problems. Some studies of far-
mers' behavior, however, show that simpler approach is feasible. The risk
aversion of the farmer can be taken into account by using a certainty
equivalent (CE) instead of the expected value (EV). 1/ If the yields have
a normal distribution which is known, CE can be expressed as a function of
EV:
CE = EV - n x s
Where s = the standard deviation
n = a factor that expresses the farmers' risk aversion.
21.       Some empirical studies 2/ indicate that the farmers' choice of
cropping patterns and production techniques can be accurately predicted for
values of n in the interval I to 2. The value of n typically decreases when
the farm size increases. For this analysis, it is assumed that n = 2 for
"submarginal" farmers (1.0 ha) and n = 1.5 for "large" farmers.
22.      Historic yield figures from the NSP area show that yields in two
years out of three are within roughly 20% from their average values.
This gives s = 0.2 x EV. The project would make the yields more stable, but
1/   For a fuller but still non-technical description of these concepts,
see for example, H. Raiffa: Decision Analysis, Addison-Wesley, 1968.
2/   These studies, which have been carried out by the Development Research
Center and the South Asia Projects Department, have not yet been published.
167



ANNEX 13
Page 9
the farmers are projected to shift to commercial crops, such as cotton and
chillies that show large price variations from year to year. With the
project, it is thus estimated that s = 0.15 x EV.
23.        The next problem that arises in the calculation of project rent is
the value of family labor. Studies in India indicate that the market wage
rate is slightly less than the marginal productivity of labor. This implies
that family members typically get a somewhat higher "return" to their labor
than the wage rate. Consequently, a 20% premium has been put on family labor.
24.        The reward for management and entrepreneurship can, in part, be
related to the capital employed in the production if this is not included in
the crop production cost. But it is primarily a premium for the special
skills that farm management requires. Furthermore, many activities are not
included in the crop labor requiremients, for example, applying for seasonal
credit, listening to extension workers, hiring and directing daily laborers, etc.
Relatively more of this is required on the "large" farms than on the "sub-
marginal" farms. Consequently, it has been assumed that the "management fee"
is equal to 10% and 20% of the net returns on the 1.0 and 10.0 ha farms,
respectively.
25.        The project rent has been calculated for one 1.0 ha farm and one
10.0 ha farm in both the Left Bank and the Right Bank (Tables 7a and 7b).
The resulting project rents are in the same magnitude for all four farm
models:
Project Rent
(Rs/ha)
Irrigation Infrastructure, only         600-720
CAD, only                               490-570
Whole project, at full
development               2,200-2,500
26.       There is an important time element in the project rent.  Full
development will not be reached until the mid-1990s. The project rent
resulting from the irrigation infrastructure is based on projected yields
a couple of years after the completion of construction. This is also the
case for the CAD component. The farmers' willingness to participate in the
CAD Program depends only on his anticipated income increase due to land
leveling and not the potential benefits he will reap due to extension at a
later stage. Thus the project rents for the irrigation infrastructure and
CAD above set the limit for what is feasible in the short- and medium-term.
27.       At present, only the costs for civil works under the CAD Program are,
nominally, recovered and this results in an annual cost of about Rs 250 per
ha. However, the analysis shows that its is feasible to charge the farmers for
GOAP's costs for planning, design and supervision. A full recovery in nominal
terms, of these costs would increase the loan repayments by about Rs 100 per
ha.
168



ANNEX 13
Page 10
28.       The betterment levy is set when the project is completed or near
completion. It is not feasible to change it with time. Consequently, it
is recommended that the betterment levy is set at a level corresponding to
the project rent calculated above. Future increases in project rent could be
collected through increases in the water rates.
Level of Cost Recovery
29.       Four basic alternative levels of water charges can thus be
identified.
Cost /1     Benefit/l   Rent /1
Annual   Recovery    Recovery    Recovery
Charge   Index        Index        Index
Alternative                              (Rs/ac)    %             %            %
I   Present Policy:  The betterment
levy is limited to Rs 100 and
Rs 200 per ac for ID and IW lands,
respectively. Water rates,
land cesses and commercial
crop rates kept at their
present levels. Rs 40 per ac
(Rs 100 per ha))                     62         21             13        26
II. Proposed Legislation: The
betterment levy is replaced with
the special tax on irrigated lands.
Other water related charges remain
unchanged.                           110         37           23          46
III. Nominal Cost Recovery: The
betterment levy is set at
Rs 2,600 per ac but following pre-
sent practice no interest would be
charged on the outstanding
amounts. Other water related
charges kept at their present
level                                170         58            35         71
IV. Full Recovery of Canal Infra-
structure Costs: Rs 1,900 per ac
is paid over a 30 year period with
a 10% interest. Rs 20 per
ac is collected for 0 & M costs.  220            75            46         92
V. Full Recovery of 0&M and
Capital Costs: Rs 2,600
is paid over a 30 year period
with a 10% interest. Rs 20 per
ac is collected for O&M costs.    295           100            61        123
/1   Cost Recovery Index:       Ratio of water charges to annual O&M and capital
recovery costs (at 10% interest, repaid over 30 years).
Benefit Recovery Index:  Ratio of water charges to net incremental farm income.
Rent Recovery Index:       Ratio of water charges to project rent.
169



ANNEX 13
Page 11
30.       The analysis clearly shows that full cost recovery (Alternative
V) doubtless would stretch the farmers' ability to pay too far and their
incentive to use irrigation water would be greatly impaired. A cost
recovery in line with Alternative IV(Rs 240 per ac or Rs 600 per ha)
should, however, be feasible. This is especially the case since the
combined effects of subsequent CAD and extension input would result in
considerable income increases. Because of the highly concentrated land
ownership in the NSP area, a progressive charge structure would be
desirable. However, this is not deemed feasible for collection reasons.
31.       The loans for on-farm development would be repayed in nominal
terms (para. 18). Thus, the real level of cost recovery would depend on
the future rate of inflation:
Rate of Inflation                 Cost Recovery Index
0%                                89%
5%                                69%
10%                                54%
32.       Before the exceptional price increases in 1973/74 and 1974/75,
India has experienced a long period of very modest inflation. There are
also clear indications that the domestic price situation again has
stabilized. Thus, for this analysis, it has been assumed that the rate
of inflation during the repayment period for CAD loans would be the same
as during the twelve year period ending in 1972, or 6% annually. This
would give a cost recovery index of 66% for the CAD component.
April 1976
.170



INDIA                                   ANNEX 13
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT             Table 1
Present & Expected Fertilizer Application Rates. NagarJunasagar Area
(kg nutrient/ha)
Yield      N        P         K        T
(tons/ha)
Rice             Kharif    P                   2.2       80       50         -      130
W                  2.7      100        50        -      150
W                 4.0       120       60        30      210
Rabi      P                  2.4       80        50        -      130
v                  2.9      100       50         -      150
W                  4.5      140       60        40      240
Sugarcane                   P                60.0       120       60       40       220
w                 72.0      150       60        40      250
w                 85.0      175       70        50      295
Groundnuts       Kharif    P                    .8       10       30         -       40
W-                 1.0       10       30        10       50
W                  1.5       15       40        30       85
Rabi      P                  1.0       10        30        -       40
IV                 1.2       10       30        10       50
W                  1.7       15       45        35       95
Cotton                      p                   .9       50        -         -       50
iW                 1.1       50       25         -       75
w                  2.0      100       30        20      150
Chillies                    P                   .7      150       50        20      220
V                   .9      175       50        20      245
w                  1.2      190       60        30      280
Sorghum          Plant      p                   .5       10        -         -       10
w                   .6       10        -         -       10
W                 4.0       120       50        30      200
Ratoon    p                   .3       10         -        -        10
iW                           10         -        -       10
W                  3.0      100       40        30      170
Minor millets    Kharif    p                    .5        -         -        -        -
W                   .6        -        -         -        -
w                  1.0       50         -        -      . 50
Rabi      p                   .3        -         -        -        -
W                   .35       -        _         _        _
W                  1.0       50         -        -        -
Pulses & Oilseeds Kharif   p                    .6        -        _         _        _
iW                  .7        -        _         _        _
W                  1.5       10        30        -       40
Rabi      P                        -         -         -             -
W                  1.5       10       30         -       40
Rabi      p                   .3        -         -                 -
(w/o irrigation)W                   .35       -         -        -        -
w                   .5        _        _         _        _
Pearl millet     Kharif    P                    .5
W                   .6        -        -         -
W                  3.5      100       50        20      170
Rabi      p                  1.5       80        20        -      100
IW                 1.8       90       30         -      120
W                  3.5      100       50        20      170
Note:  1.  P = (in vertical column) present fertilizer use; W = future without project
situation; W = future with project situation.
2. P (in horizontal column) = P205;K = K20
3. For sorghum (plant & ratoon) and kharif pearl millet the W figures refer to
new area brought under irrigation under the project. In areas already irrigated
the W values would be about midway between those shown for P & W, due to a
partial change to hybrid sorghum and pearl millet under the influence of the
present extension service.                                                         *171



4    -           0                                                    4                                    00,         0,1.4
4.                                                                    4.
0.4                                                                   00                               400             0,                       0
-,                                              .4              .                                    0           0     4
01    2
0   -          0                             0              .0                               .4  0  -        0    0                00

0-   0   0   0  0   0                               0         -       .4                             4  0  0  0   0    0            .4      00
.0       .0                                                          .4         0       0
.0             0         0   0  0        0                             0              0
0    0000                                             0   4 0                                                               -   '0
0:     0   4  0  0  .4  .4  0                       0                 0      0   -  .4  0  .4                             0
0       0         0   0  4   0                                 0            o0          0  .4  0        0                            0
0          0                                                                  0       40
4  00000.40.40                                               0                 .4  .4 0 0 0 0                                       0    0
-0      .4  0  4   0                                  0               0         0  0  -        0                            0
.4  .4 000000                                       0                 .4  .4 0 0 0 0
.4       0   .4  .4                 0                 0               .4                                       0            -
-                                                                                                                          0       00
*  4.                                                                  0       00
0       '0       .4                      0  0,
00000                      00                                                             0                        0,               0':
*0      .4                                      0            0         0
10!   .4..4     0   2       0  .4          0
.4           0  0,                  0,                2           o                                                                 o      o.o
.4     0   0   0  0  0   .4  .4  0,                 0       -*       .4                      0  0  0         0                      2
0                        0   0  0               4    0                4                    '0  0               -            2
0                                                                 00  4.                                                                  0       00
0     2                                   -000               0             .4    0   00
0        0                       0  0  .4               '0    0       0       0
0   0                                                          0      '0
0.        .40                                                                   "00'
0   0  .4  0  0  .4    0          '0    0.4
2         2                                   .40.40             .4  0           0
.41
.4                 0                        0  0  0                .4   .4      '        0
0    0       0-                                                                                                                                        4        000
.4                     00000000   ,  .4
0    0   .4  0               0                        0               0    0   0,              0                            0               0 0 0
2    0       1002           -.
0   0  0  0   0,                                                      0,  0,      0                            0         0       00 0
.0    0   0   4              4                                                 0               0                            0               040
.0       .4   '0
0   0  0  0   .4                        0         0       .4  -  .4  0   0   '  .4                             0         0  0   000
2         0      00.4.40                                                                                                                                    0  0.0..
0    0   0   .4              4                                                 0               0                            0       0  0  .4  0
0-   .4  .4  0  0  .4  0                            0                 .4  0  0  0   0,       0                                          o
4  0 0 00000400   0                                   0               .0                           0 0,    .4 0  0'   0 0 0 0
000                            .4.40.4                      0
000  0.4  0 0' 0 0, 0 0 0 .4 0   0,                                    .4                          00,0000    0                       4 0 00
-0  .4 0 00400000, 0    0                                                                            0 0,           - 0  0   0 0  00
0                         .4    .4    .4  -             .4                                                                            0   0   0   4
.400                                                                                                                                           0  00
0000000, 0,                                                               0.0,0.4.40.4    0
2.4.400.40  0,0,000                                   .4                                                          .4 0  .4    0   00.4
4                                                                                                                                      0  'I  .400
00    0   0   .4  0  .4  0  0  0,  0  0,  0             .4             .0                            0   0,         0  0    .4        0       0   0
0                         .4  .4  .4  0                 0                                                                             .4  4   00.0
000                                                                 00                                                                    0   00
0,  0       .4      0       .0   .4  0,              0                             .4      0  0  400
.4  0              0         0       0  0                                                          .4       0   0   000
4                                                                 .0  0                                                                  0   0   0 0 0
0,4                      0  0  0  0  0  0             0                 0  '-  0  0  0          .4                           0         .4  0       0
0,000.4                  0                                                                     .4             0 000
4                        0  0           0  0          0             0.0     0  0               0                             0               000
0'                           .4  .4             0         .4         .4                                                                      0  040
.4.4                     0 2222                                      0, 40000O                         1.                                     24.4
0                        .4  .4         0   0,        0               4    0  0                .4                            o
.4                     0 0 0 .4 .4 .4    0                            .4.         .           0                                          0 -00
0    0  0                0  0                         .4             .0                        4   0  0  0,                 0        0   0  00
0        .4  0                   -                        0           .4                                                                 0       00 00
22,2
0              0  4                         0        0      .4                       .4  0  .4  .4                 0,           0   0.40
.4                 0                        4        0   0'                                                        -            0   000
040  0  0 0 0 0, 0                                    0         0   00                          0,0,0.4                      0
.4  0  0  0,                            0         4    .4                                 0  0                 0                    0
0    -                                                                         00.4
.0    0  .4              0  0,                        0       .4      0                        .4  0  0   .4                 0       0.  0   000
.4                 0                        .4          0,                                                                      o   000
.400.40                                 0                 .4                      0,  0  2  2                   o         0  0.  0   0
0.0  004004000440040004040400 00                                      0    00000.                   .4.00000.4040.40.40 04
0.400,                                                                                                                           4.40
0230                 0                                      0         000                   0                                      0
0       0   0      0.                  0         000                   0      0  0        0                                  0,
4   0  0   00.0                        0         000                   .j  00    0   0  0
2  20.:    o4oi2I4o
0   0  0   0   0  0  .4  0  0  0                     004              .4  0  .4  0  0   0  .4  0
00000            0  0  0   0   0  0  0           0  S                 .400          0  0  0   0  0  0   0  0
0.4   00  00  4   0  0   0   0  00  0   .4  4  .4                     004    00  00  .4  0   0   .4  .0  00  0.  0  'C                             172



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Financial Crop Budgets at Full Development
(Nagarjunasagar Command Areas)
Yield    Gross    Cash                    Animal       Net
Crop           Season 1/    (ton/ha)   Value    Inputs 2/  Labor 3/   power  v   Value          Comments
7--------------- R-s7a ------------------7
Rice             kh            4.0      5,600     1,020         830       450         3,300
Rice             ra            h.5      6,300     1,120         850       450         3,880
Sugarcane         -           85       14,880     3,040         890       560        10,390
Sorghum          kh            4.0      7,200        940        260       130         5,870     Full irrigation
Sorghum          kh            3.0      5,400        940        260       130         4,070     Partial irrigation
Sorghum          ra            3 0      5,400       670         190       120         4,420
Pearl Millet     kh            3.5      5,500        730        260       130         4,380
Pearl Millet     ra            3.5      5,500        730        260       130         4,380
Minor Millets    kh            0.8      1,370        210        220        80           860
Minor Millets    ra            1.0      1,830        210        220        70         1,330
Pulses           kh            1.3      4,230        270        220        80         3,660
Pulses           ra            1.5      4,880       270         220        80         4,310     Irrigated
Pulses           ra            0.5      1,630        100        120        10         1,400     Residual soil moisture
Cotton           kh            2.0      5,900     1,730         580       200         3,390
Chillies         kh            1.2     10,580     1,520         580       210         8,270
Groundnuts       kh            1.2       4,100       910        650       240         2,300
Groundnuts       ra            1.7      5,810        940        660       240         3,970
/ kh = kharif (sorghum   plant), ra = rabi (sorghum t ratoon)
,  Seeds, fertilizers and pesticides
2   Evaluated at the average market wage rate (Rs 4.00) for both family and lined labor
2 Rs 8.00 per pair of oxen
. 
rJ)



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Economic Returns to Irrigation at Full Development
(Nagarjunasagar Command Areas)
Net Economic    Water             Net Return
Value 2         Requirement 3/   to IrrigAtion I
Crop                      Season 1/    (RsAa-               (mm)             (Rs/mrn)            Comments
Rice, black soil             kh           3,730              890             0.31
Rice, red soil               kh           3,730            1,350             0.20
Rice, black soil             ra           4,330            1,300              0.33
Rice, red soil               ra           4,330            1,720             0.25
Sugarcane                     -           3,850            2,740             0.10
Sorghum                      kh           6,130              280             1.83                Full Irrigation
Sorghum                      kh           4,300              130            (2.54) W             Partial Irrigation
Sorghum                     ra            4,600              360             1.28
Pearl Millet                 kh           1,590              230             1.56
Pearl Millet                 ra           4,590              880             0.52
Minor Millets                kh             940              190                _
Minor Millets                ra           1,410              650             0.22
Pulses                       kh           2,970              310            (3.28) 5/
Pulses                       ra           3,490              590             0.59                Irrigated
Pulses                       ra           1,140                -                 -               Residual soil moisture
Cotton                       kh           4,990              700             0.56
Chillies                     kh           8,660              500             1.53
Groundnuts                   kh           1,900              360            (0.60) I/
Groundnuts                   ra           3,260            1,160             0.28
/ kh = kharif (sorghum = plant), ra   rabi (sorghum: ratoon)
2/ Calculated following the methods discussed in Annex 14
See Annex
The average value for unirrigated kharif crops is Rs 1,000/ha. The net return to irrigation for kharif crops is
thus calculated as:  (Net Economic Value - l,900)/(Water Rtquirement).  The net return to irrigation for rabi crops
is calculated as: (Net Economic Value)/(Water Requirement)
/ The relative error in the water requirement is high and the calculated net return to irrigation, consequently,
contains a very large margin of error
-.1



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATICON AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Financial Budget for 1.0 ha Farm
(Nagarjunasagar Left Bank Command Area)
Presently not Irrigated                                 Presentlv Irrigated
P       W         Wi        W2         W3           P         i        WI         W2         W3
Gross Production Value   1,920   2,360    4,340        5,210      7,960        5,850    6,480    4,340       5,210      7,960
Farm Production Costs
Crop inputs              300      410      800        800     1,210        1,070    1,300        800        800     1,210
Animal power             140      150       280       280        370          510      540       280        280        370
Hired labor              100      110      180        200        210           00                180        200
Total                  5       670    1,260       1,280     1,810         ,980    2,070    1,260             1,     810
Net Production Value      1,380   1,690    3,080       3,930      6,150        3,870    4,410    3,080       3,930     6,150
Irrigation Costs
Water rates                -        -      140        14o        i4o         180       180       14o        i4o    i4o
Betterment levy            -        -      140        14         i4o           20      140       140        140       140
Loan repayment                                -       250        250
Total                    -        -      280        530       530          200       320       280       530        530
Net Farm Income           1,380   1,690    2,800       3,400     5,620        3,670    4,090    2,800        3,400     5,620
P = Present
WJ = Future without Project
Wl = Future with Project, no CAD or Extension Services
W2 = Future with Project, CAD but no ERtension Services
3 - Future with Project, including CAD and Extension Services
vz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-.1
%ft~



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Financial Budget for 3.0 ha Farm
(Nagarjunasagar Left Bank Command Area)
Presently not Irrigated                                    Presently Irrigated
P        Vw        WI         W2         W3            P                   W2                    W3
Gross Production Value   5,620    7,040    13,390    16,070    23,220             17,010   18,860   13,390    16,070    23,220
Farm Production Costs
Crop inputs               850    1,250       2,480      2,480      3,640        3,090    3,770    2,480        2,480       3,640
Animal power              420       460        840        840      1,080        1,480    1,570         840        840     1,080
Hired labor                480  530          1,100      1.140      1,400        1,840    1,950    1,100           .        1,400
Total                 1,750                4,420      14,460     6,120        6,4410    7,290     4,42O      460        6,120
Net Production Value       3,870    4,830       8,970    11,610    17,100         lo,600   11,570    8,970    11,610    17,100
Irrigation Costs
Water rates                 -         -        41o        410        41o          400       45o       410         41o        41o
Betterment levy             -         -        41o        410        410           60       410       41o         4io        410
Loan repayment              _         -          -__            75   70             - -                 -                   750
Total                     -         -        820      1,570      1,570          510       860       820      1,570      1,570
Net Farm Income            3,870    4,830       8,150    io,o4o    15,530         10,090    10,710   8,150    io,o4o    15,530
P = Present
W = Future without Project
Wl = Future with Project, no CAD or Extension Services
WR = Future with Project, CAD but no Extension Services
W3 = Future with Project, including CAD and Extension Services
I.-'~~~~~~~~



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESII IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Financial Budget for 5.0 ha Farm
(Nagarjunasagar Left Bank Command Area)
Presently not Irrigated                                 Present Irrigated
P        v         Wi         W2        W3           P         v         W1        W2        W3
Gross Production Value   9,490    11,840   22,470    26,960    38,560           28,350   31,140   22,470   26,960    38,560
Farm Production Costs
Crop inputs            1,550      2,120    4,400      4,400      6,390        5,230    6,280    4,40o    4,400        6,390
Animal power              700       750    1,400      1,400      1,790        2,460    2,590    1,400    1,400        1,790
Hired labor            1,180      1 270    2,40        2,510     3,050        4,080    4,290   .2,40    2.510         3,050
Total                3,430  m tt          8,240     8,310    11,230        11,770   13,160    8,240    8,310    11,230
Net Production Value      6,050      7,700   14,230    18,650    27,330         16,580   17,980   14,230   18,650    27,330
Irrigation Costs
Water rates                 -         -       690        690        690         700       750       690       690        690
Betterment levy             -         -       690        690       690          100       690       690       690        690
Loan repayment              --                        1,250      1,250             -                       1.250      1.250
Total                    -          -    1,380      2,630      2,630          800    1,M       1,380    2,630      2,630
Net Farm Income           6,050      7,700   12,850    16,020    24,700         15,780   16,54o   12,850   16,020    24,700
P = Present
W = Future without Project
WI = Future with Project, no CAD or Extension Services
W2 = Future with Project, CAD but no Extension Services
W3 = Future with Project, including CAD and Extension Services



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Financial Budget for 10.0 ha Farm
(Nagarjunasagar Left Bank Command Area)
Presently not Irrigated.                            Presently Irrigated
P           W   W1         W2        W3          P        W         WI        W2        W3
Gross Production Value   18,860  23,620   44,930    53,920    76,280       55,320   61,650   44,930    53,920    76,280
Farm Production Costs
Crop inputs            3,220   4,390    9,620     9,620    12,900       10,200   12,470    9,620     9,620    12,900
Animal power           1,020   1,480    2,800     2,800      3,540       4,830    5,120    2,800     2,800      3,540
Hired labor            3,410   3.660    6,490     6,800      7 810       9 710   10a 00    6.490     6.800      7.810
Total                7,650   9,530   18,910    19,220    24,250      24,740             18,910    19,220    24,250
Net Production VeJuie    11,21n  11,090  26,020    34,700    52,030        30,580   33,760   26,020    34,700    52,030
Irrigation Costs
Water rates                -       -   1,380      1,380     1,380        1,400    1,500    1,380     1,380      1,380
Betterment levy            -       -   1,380      1,380     1,380          200   1,380    1,380      1,380     1,380
Loans repayment            --                      .        2.500            -                 -     250000
Total                    -       -   2,760      5,260     5,260        1,600    2,880              5,260     5,260
Net Farm Income          11,210  14,090  23,260    29,440    46,770        28,980   30,880   23,260    29,440    46,770
P = Present
W = Future without Project
Wl = Future with Project, no CAD or Extension Services
W2 = Future with Project, CAD but no Extension Services
W3 = Future with Project, including CAD and ktension Services
04



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COIPOSITE PROJECT
Financial Budget for 1.0 ha Farm
(Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Command Area)
Presently not Irrigated                                Presently Irrigated
P       Jr        Wl         W2        W3           P        1[        WI         W2        W3
Gross Production Value   1,570    2,090    4,160       4,990      8,240       3,710    4,540    4,160       4,990      8,240
Farm Production Costs
Crop inputs              200      310      780        780     1,290          810       940      780        780     1,290
Animal power             120      140       270       270        340         260       280      270        270        340
Hired labor               60       80      170        190        210         170       180      170        190        210
Total                  380      530    1,220      1,240     1,840        1,240    1,400    1,220       1,240
Net Production Value      1,190    1,560    2,940      3,750     6,400        2,470    3,140    2,940       3,750     6,400
Irrigation Costs
Water rates                -        -       140       140        140         120       150      140        140        140
Betterment levy            -        -       140       14o        140          20       140       140       140        140
Loan repayment             -        -         -       250       250                                        250        250
Total                    _        _       280       530       530          140       290      280        530        530
Net Farm Income           1,190    1,560    2,660      3,220      5,870       2,330    2,850    2,660       3,220      5,870
P - Present
5W Future with Project
WI = Future with Project, no CAD or Extension Services
W2 = Future with Project, CAD but no Extension Services
W3 = Future with Project, including CAD and Extension Services
POi
"4,-



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Financial Budget for 3.0 ha Farm
(Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Command Area)
Presently not Irrigated                                 Presently Irrigated
P       V-        Wi        W2         W3           P        1w          W1        W2         W3
Gross Production Value   4,780   6,640    12,810    15,370    24,630           11,010   13,510    12,810    12,810    24,630
Farm Production Costs
Crop inputs              470      720     2,520      2,520      3,940        2,530    2,840      2,520      2,520      3,940
Animal power             290      310        800        800     1,010          770       820        800        800     1,010
Hired labor               310       0     1 010      1 060      1,240        1 010    1 080      1 020      1 060      1.240
Total                1,070   1,3+0      t4,3078               6,190              4',Tj740 mo                         6,190
Net Production Value      3,710   5,280       8,470    10,990    18,440         6,700    8,770       8,470    10,990    18,440
Irrigation Costs
Water rates                 -       -       410        4io        410          360       450       410         410       41o
Betterment levy             -       -       410        410        41o           60       41o      410          410       41o
Loan repayment              -                          7 5 7 075               _              -              750       75
Total                    -        _      820       1,570      1,570          420       860      820       1,570      1,570
Net Farm Income            3,710   5,280    7,650       9,420    16,870         6,280    7,910    7,650        9,420    16,870
P = Present
1T= Future with Project
W1l  Future with Project, no CAD or Extension Services
W2   Future with Project, CAD but no Extension Services
W3 = Future with Project, including CAD and Extension Services
co
0



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Financial Budget for 5.0 ha Farm
(Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Command Area)
Priesently not Irrigated                                Presently Irrigated
P Fg               WI         W2        W3           P                   Wi         W2        W3
Gross Production Value   7,980    10,750   21,760    26,110    41,850           18,770   23,440   21,760    26,110    41,850
Farm Production Costs
Crop inputs              860      1,150    4,710      4,710      7,030        4,830    5,320    4,710       4,710      7,030
Animal power             480        510    1,330       1,330     1,680        1,310    1,410    1,330       1,330      1,680
HIired labor             760        870    2,290      226 2.750               2,250        90    2.290          60     2.760
Total                2,100      2,530    8,330      8,h00    11, 770        8,390    9,220    8,330       8,400    11,470
Net Production Value      5,880      8,220   13,430    17,710    30,380         10,380   1h,220   13,430    17,710    30,380
Irrigation Costs
Water rates                 -         -      690        690        690          600       750      690         690        690
Betterment levy             -         -      690        690        690          100       690      690         690        690
Loan repayment              -         -         -           1,250 1                                         1.250      1.250
Total          _                    -   1,380       2            630          700    1,44o   1,380        2,630      2,630
Net Farm Income           5,880      8,220  12,050       15,080    27,750        9,680   12,780  12,050        15,080    27,750
P = Present
W = Future with Project
Wl = Future with Project, no CAD or Extension Services
W2 = Future with Project, CAD but no Extension Services
W3 = Future with Project, including CAD and Extension Services
(Dco
C, 
CO



INDIA
ANIHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Financial Budget for 10.0 ha Farm
(Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Command Area)
Presently not Irrigated                                 Presently Irrigated
P        v         Wl        W2         W3           P        V         W1         W2        W3
Gross Production Value   16,150   22,490   46,110    55,330    84,940          39,050   49,120   46,110    55,330    84,940
Farm Production Costs
Crop inputs             1,940    2,770   10,250    10,250    14,400         10,760   11,480   10,250    10,250    14,400
Animal power              980    1,040    2,610       2,620     3,290        2,700    2,890    2,620       2,620      3,290
Hired labor             2.550    2.770    6,190       6.300     7.300        6.400    6 870    6.190       6.300      7.300
Total                 5,470    6,580   19,050    19,170    24,990         19,860   21,240   19,060    19,170    24,990
Net Production Value      10,680   15,910   27,060    36,160    59,950         19,190   27,860   27,050    36,160    59,950
Irrigation Costs
Water rates                 -         -    1,380      1,380     1,380        1,200    1,500    1,380       1,380      1,380
Betterment levy             -         -    1,380      1,380     1,380          200    1,380    1,380       1,380      1,380
Loan repayment              _                  -      2,500     2.500            _-- _Lm _.50                          ,)
Total                     -         -    2,760     5,260      5,260        1,hoo    2,BBo    2,760       5,260      5,260
Net Farm Income           10,680   15,910   24,300    30,900    54,690         17,790   25,000   24,200    30,900    54,690
P = Present
W = Future with Project
Wl = Future with Project, no CAD or Extension Services
W2 = Future with Project, CAD but no Extension Services
W3 = Future with Project, including CAD and Extension Services
CIK



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PRW ECT
Calculation of Pro.ject Rent
(Nagarjunasagar Left Bank Command Area)
1.0 ha Farm                                             10.0 ha Farm
WI          W2           W3               V            Wi           W2           W3
1. Expected Gross Value of
Production (Rs              2,360      4,340        5,210        7,960            23,620      44,930       53,920       76,280
2. Certainty Equivalent
of (1) (Rs)                 1,420      3,040        3,650        5,570            16,530      34,870       41,790       59,120
3. Production Costs (Rs)          670     1,260        1,280        1,810             9,530      18,910       19,220       24,250
4. Family Labor (Rs)              370        650         690          790                  -           -            -            -
5. Management Fee (Rs)             40       110          170          300             1,400       3,180        4,510         6,970
6. Implicit Land Rent
(6) = (2)-(3)-(4)-(5)
(Rs/ha)                        340     1,020        1,510        2,670               560       1,280        1,810        2,790
7. Project Rent (Rs/ha)                      680       1,170        2,330                            720       1,250         2,230
- Irrigation Infrastructure              680                                                     720
- CAD                                                 490                                                     530
V= Future with Project
W = Future with Project, no CAD or Extension Services
W2 = Future with Project, CAD but no Extension Services
W3 = Future with Project, including CAD and Extension Services
5P0



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Calculation of Project Rent
(Nagarjunasagar Right Bank Command Area)
1.0 ha Farm                                          10.0 ha Farm
-w          wi          W2           W3             IV           Wi           W2          W3
1. Expected Gross Value of
Production (Rs)             2,090       4,160        4,990        8,240          22,490      46,110       55,330       84,940
2. Certainty Equivalent of
(1) (Rs)                    1,250       2,910        3,490       5,770           15,730      35,740       42,880       65,830
3. Production Costs (Rs)         530       1,220        1,240       1,840            6,580      19,060       19j170       24,990
4. Family Labor (Rs)              320        620          640          740                            -            -           -
5. Management Fee (Rs)            40         110          160          320           1,840       3,340        4,740        8,170
6. Implicit Land Rent
(6) = (2)-(3)-(a)-(5)
(RsAha)                       360         960        1,450       2,870              730       1,330        1,900        3,270
7. Project Rent (Rs/ha)             -        600        1,090       2,510                 -        600        1,170        2,540
- Irrigation Infrastructure               600                                                   600
- CAD                                                  490                                                   570
7W= Future with Project
Wl = Future with Project, no CAD or Extension Services
W2 = Future with Project, CAD but no Extension Services
W3 = Future with Project, including CAD and Extension Services
00



INDIA
ANDHRTA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD CCMPOSITE PROJECT
NAGARJUNASAGAR PROJECT AREA
Cropoing Pattern PerFr  Si.. (in 7% of far. area)
FarmSize                                      I ha                                      3 ha                                     Sha                                       loha
Timeperapective                       p          w           N                 P           N                            P           N           N                 P           N 
Season                       Kh   R    Kh    R    WCh   R                   5h Vg             y                Kh   R      Kh   R    Rh   R-             Rh R    Rh   R    Kh   R
Left Bank
1.   Areas already irrigated
Rice                         77   65   75   67   50                   77   65   75   67   47   -                79   63   80    62   44    --            80   62    80   62   42        -
Sorghum I/                   16   14   16   12   13   11              17   10   17    7   11    7               10     3    9      4   13      5          7    3      6    3   12       5
Croundonte                    7    8      8    8   14   13              4    4    5    5   17   15               7     5    7      5   18   15             5    3    7    3   20    15
Pearl millet                                               14           2   --     2                13           4           3               12            6   --     2                12
Pulses and oilseeds                                  19     6                                 17     6                                 11-- -- I  4          --3
P.lses 2/                           3           3          13                 5          5          14                 5           5          12                3           4          10
Chillies                                  1           4                             1          4                --1                      6                            2           7
Cotton                                                                                         3                                         6                                        7
Others   3/- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                         _ _ _  1                                        2                                        2
Total     100   90  100   90  100   60              100   84  100   84  100   55             100   76  100   76  100    48              98   71   97- 72    99   45
190        190         160              18          184         155              176         176         1416                          19          14
2.   Areas not yet irrigated
Rice                         14    2   14       2   50                 13    2   13      2   47   --            12     2   12      2   44                10    2   10       2   42
Sorgh-mI/                    33    5   33       5   13   11           35    4   36    4   11         7         38      3   39      3   13      5         41     2   42      2   12      5
Gro-dndots                   20          20          14   13          20          22         .17   15           21         22          18   15           23          24          20   15
Pearl millet                  2           5                14           2          3                13           1           2                12           1          2                12
Pulses and olseeds           20          18          19    6           20         17          17    6           18          16          11    4           14         12           9    3
P.1ses 2/                           3           3          15                 3          3          14                 3           3         12                 3           3          10
Chillies                      3           3           4                 3          3           4                 4          4            6                5           5           7
Cotton                                                                                         3                                         6                                        7
Others 3/                     8           7                             7          6           1                 6           5           2                 6          5           2
Total           100   10 100    10 100    60             100    9 100        9100    55            100     8 100       8 100    48          100      7 100      7   99   45
110        110         160               109         109         155              108         108         148               107         107        344
Right Bank
1.   Areas already irrigated
Rice                         40  13  40    13  43                      38  12  38    12  40                     38   12  38    12   37    --             38   12   38  12    34   -
Sorghum I/                   20    7   18       7   23   23           21    7   20    7   22   22               19     6   18      6   20   19           14     6   14      5   19   19
Groudnduts                    7    5    8    5   10   10                8    6    8    7   10    9               8    7    9    7        9   10            9    7      9    8    7   11
Pearl Millet                        9           9          12                 7          6          11                 4           4          10                 2           -          8
Pulsesand oilseeds           16          16          14                13         14          12                 a           7           8                 5           5          8
Pulses 2/                          26          26          17               26          26          17                26          26          16               26          26          14
Chillies                      7           7           6                 8          8           8                10          11          11                14         14          14
Cotton                       10          11           3                12         12           7                17          17          13               20          20          16
Others 3/                    --          --           1                -          --           1                --          --           2                --         --            2    1
Total           100   60  100   60  100    62             100   58  100   58  100   59             100   55  100   55  100   55              100   53  100   53  100   53
160        160        -162               158         158         159              155         155         155               153         153         153
2    Areas not yet irrigated
Rice                           3    2    3    2  43                     4    1    4    1  40                     4     1    4      1   37   --             5           5          34
Sorghu. I/                   18    2   19       2   23   23            17    2   16    2   22   22              1s    2   15       2   20    19           15         14          19   19
Groundnuts                    3    1    4       1   10   10             6    1    7    1   10        9           7     1    7      1    9   10            10          11           7   11
Pearl Millet                        2           2          12                 2          2          11                 I           1          10            I    1           1          8
Pulses and oilseeds          40          38          14                40         40          12                3.          37           8                35          34           8
Pulses 2/                                                  17                                       17                                        16                                       14
Chillies                      3           3           6                 3          4           8                 4           4          11                 5           6         14
Cotton                                                3                                        7                                        13                                       16
Others 3/                    33          33           1                30         29           1                32          33           2                30         30            2     1
Total           100    7       100  7      100    62      100     6      100  6     100    59       99    5       100  5 100    55           100    I1100        1      100    53
107        107         162               106         106         159              ICA         105         155               101         101         153
Notes:  1/ intluding ratoon.
1-1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 2  on residual smisture, after rice.
00                   ~~~~~3/ sugarcane, minor millets, vegetables, etc.                                                                                                                                                                
Lri                  ~~~~P=present situation;  W=-future without project situation;  W=ftrure with project situation                  Rh=kharif(susamr)         R=rabi (winter)                                                   m.



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Distribution of Farm Sizes in the Project Areas
Nagarj unasagar
Pochampad          Right Bank            Left Bank           Tungabhadra
% of      %  o    f   of%   %            oof      % of        % of      % of
Farm Size (ha)       Farms     Land      Fars         nd      Fams       Land      Farms      Land
0-2                 74       39         58       22          53       18          27         5
2-h                 16       19         19       17          23       18          2h        12
h-6                  3        7         10       16           8       12          16        13
over 6                  7       35         13       45          16        52         33        70
Average Size (ha)       2.2                 3.2                  3.6                  6.0
Median Size (ha)        1.0                 1.6                  2.0                   3.9
0a



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPONENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
General
1.        The major components of the project -- irrigation infrastructure,
on-farm development and agricultural extension services -- are interdependent.
The benefits from one component depend on whether the others are implemented.
Irrigation infrastructure, CAD and extension will thus be evaluated as a
package. However, in order to justify the composition of the package, bene-
fits and costs associated with each of the components will also be analyzed
separately.
2.        The normal approach for analyzing irrigation projects assumes that
water is freely available, i.e., its opportunity cost is zero. This assump-
tion cannot be made in the estimation of the benefits resulting from the CAD
Program, which would lead to substantial water savings, and for the estima-
tion of economic costs associated with the NSP canal extensions. A major ele-
ment in the economic analysis is, therefore, the estimation of the opportunity
cost of water.
3.        The economic analysis of the project basically follows standard
Bank methodology. However, instead of using a shadow exchange rate (SER) to
translate foreign exchange costs/earnings into local market prices, a standard
conversion factor (SCF) has been applied to domestic market prices in order to
translate them into border prices. This will not effect the economic rate of
return of the project since the SCF is directly related to the SER and the
official exchange rate (OER): OER/SER = SCF.
4.        The plans for the Nagarjunasagar Canal extensions are to a large
extent motivated by distributional considerations. Consequently, income dis-
tributional weights have been introduced in a systematic way into the analy-
sis. The intention is not, at this stage, to replace the economic rate of
return with a social rate of return but to give an extra dimension to the
economic analysis.
Basic Assumptions
5.        Standard conversion factor (SCF).  In order to make an allow7ance for
the level of protection provided by tariffs and trade restrictions, a SCF is
applied to the price of non-traded goods and to consumption. The SCF can be
approximately calculated through the formula:
187



ANNEX 14
Page 2
SCF =           X + M
X + Sx + M + Tm
where X = fob value of exports
M = cif value of imports
Sx = export subsidies
Tm = import duties
For 1973/74 this calculation gives SCF = 0.82.
The Planning Commission now recommends the use of conversion factors for for-
eign exchange and for untraded goods that implicitly give a SCF of about 0.75.
Because of the approximate nature of these estimates, an SCF of 0.8 has been
used in this report. This is equivalent to a shadow exchange rate of approxi-
mately US$1 = Rs 11.
6.        Savings.  Following Bank standard practice, no premium has been put
on public or private savings. Consequently, public income and private consump-
tion are assumed to be equally valuable.
7.        Income Distribution.  The income weights were chosen in such a way
that a 10% consumption increase has the same value for all groups. 1/ Since
no premium has been put on savings (para. 6) it is assumed that one rupee of
Government income/expenditure has the same value as one additional rupee to
someone at the average consumption level. Based on national account figures
for 1973/74 and inflation estimates for the period since 1973, it is assumed
that the average consumption level (C) in 1976 is Rs 1,000.
8.        The social benefits (B) are directly related to the traditional
economic benefits (E) and to the changes in consumption/income for different
groups (Ci):
B = E + SCF x > (di - 1) x Ci 2/
In this formula di is the weight given to a specific income group, and
SCF x   L  (di  - 1) x Ci is the net social benefit from increased private
consumption. For small incomes changes, di is inversely related to the income
or consumption level (Ci):
d = C
i Ci
1/   This implies an "elasticity of marginal utility" (n) of unity.  This
is conservative compared to the proposed (n_3) made in the Planning
Commission's "Study on Social Prices for Evaluating Public Invest-
ment Projects."
2/   This is a simplified version of the formula proposed by Squire & van der
Tak in "Economic Analysis of Projects," Bank Staff Working Paper No. 194,
IBRD, 1975. The modifications follow directly from the assumptions in
paragraphs 5 and 6.
188



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Thus, the lower the income level of the beneficiaries is, the higher is the
weight. If most beneficiaries are poor (di - 1) becomes larger than zero
and the social benefits are larger than the efficiency benefits. In most
parts of the analysis, the formula above has been broken down into its three
main components:
E = efficiency benefits
SCF x      di x Ci  = social benefits of increased consumption
-SCF x   E  Ci  =  social costs of increased consumption
9.        Agricultural Inputs and Outputs.  The economic prices for these goods
are discussed in Appendix 1.
10.       Construction Costs.  Traded goods, for which border prices are read-
ily available, are evaluated at these prices. The market price for untraded
goods, not separately identified traded goods, and labor are multiplied with
the SCF. This gives a conversion factor for construction costs of approximate-
ly 0.84.
11.       Shadow Wage Rates.  Wages of both skilled and unskilled construction
labor have been adjusted with the SCF. Farm labor is evaluated at a season-
ally adjusted opportunity cost. The method for this estimation is described
in Appendix 2. However, the opportunity cost of labor in Appendix 2 is ex-
pressed in domestic market prices, and has to be multiplied by the SCF for the
economic analysis.
Command Area Development
12.       On-farm development would result in both higher yields and increased
irrigation efficiencies below the pipe outlet. The higher yields are a direct
benefit to participating farmers. The higher irrigation efficiencies lead to
substantial external benefits. To which farmer or to which area these bene-
fits would accrue depends on water allocation decisions. If each area were
to be given a fixed water allocation, the higher irrigation efficiency would
result in either a higher cropping intensity or planting of more water con-
suming crops. The water saved could, alternatively, be used for extending the
command area, thereby benefiting a different group of farmers.
13.       On-farm Benefits.  The yields of ID crops typically increase 15-25%
due to careful on-farm development. The gross value of production at present
is in the range of Rs 2,500-3,000 per ha for most irrigated crops. This gives
annual benefits in the order of Rs 400-700 per ha. The thin layer of top soil
is easily disturbed by the land leveling and farmers in the area report de-
creased yields during the first two years. If no special measures (such as
application of additional fertilizers) are taken the yield decrease is about
.189



ANNEX 14
Page 4
30% and 10% in the first and second year, respectively. A summary of annual
costs and benefits is given in Table 1.
14.       External Benefits.  No measurements of irrigation efficiencies have
been done in the project areas. However, studies carried out in other parts
of India with similar soil types and topography show irrigation efficiencies
for ID lands of the following magnitudes:
Field application efficiency                0.65
Field conveyance efficiency                 0.70
Overall field irrigation efficiency         0.45
The overall water releases to NSP support these estimates. After implementa-
tion of the CAD Program, both the field application and field conveyance effi-
ciencies are projected to be about 0.80 giving an overall field efficiency of
about 0.65.
15.       The field water requiremens for ID crops vary from about five inches
for some kharif crops to about 30 inches for some rabi crops. For the NSP de-
sign cropping patterns, the average is about 15 inches. The CAD Program would
thus reduce the water requirements at the field outlet from 33 inches to 23
inches, giving a water saving of about 2,500 m3 per ha.
16.       The dual solution of the linear programming model, which was used to
analyze the optimum size of the two NSP command areas (para. 32), gives an
opportunity cost of water of Rs 0.2 per m3 at the field outlet 1/ if CAD has
not been completed over most of the area. However, if CAD covers most of the
area, the opportunity cost of water is about Rs 0.3 per m3.
17.       Analyses carried out by the Bank's resident mission in New Delhi,
indicate that each hectare that is brought under irrigation results in a food-
grain production increase of about 1.7 tons. The economic value of this pro-
duction increase, after allowing for increased input requirements, is about
Rs 2,200 per ha. Assuming an investment cost of about Rs 6,500 for irriga-
tion infrastructure, this gives an annual net benefit of about Rs 1,550 per
ha. With an average field water requirement of 33 inches (or about 8,200
m3/ha) for ID crops grown on land not covered by CAD, this gives an opportu-
nity cost of water of about Rs 0.19 per m3. This is consistent with the
results in paragraph 16. Consequently, the water saved through CAD has been
evaluated at Rs 0.2 per m3. This gives an annual production increase of
Rs 500.
1/   Rs 0.13 per m3 at the dam.
190



ANNEX 14
Page 5
18.       Investment Costs.  The financial costs for civil works are on the
average Rs 1,500 per ha and for planning, design and supervision about Rs 600
per ha. This gives an economic cost of Rs 1,740 per ha.
19.       Extension Services.  The combined effects of CAD and extension would
lead to a substantial increase of both on-farm and external benefits. It is
projected that yields on the leveled fields would increase by roughly 50%; a
shift from local to high yielding varieties would take place and a larger por-
tion of the area would be cropped under profitable commercial crops. This
would result in a doubling of the net value of production per ha. Without
extension inputs, the annual net benefits would be about Rs 1,050 per ha. The
joint effects of CAD and extension would give annual net benefits on the
order of Rs 2,800.
20.       Economic Rates of Return:
--   CAD without extension inputs              28%
--   CAD with extension inputs                 45%
Optimal Size of the NSP Command Area
21.       A linear programming model (AGINT) was developed by Bank staff 1/ to
analyze water allocation decisions. The Government cannot enforce a specific
cropping pattern but it can indirectly influence what crops are grown by regula-
ting the timing and the amount of irrigation that is supplied to a specific
area. The amount of water is determined through the capacity of the pipe out-
let in relation to the area irrigated under it and the time the water is made
available. For land localized IW, the supply per acre is high and for ID land
it is low. Furthermore, rice and sugarcane cannot legally be grown on ID
lands, while the farmers are free to grow any crop on IW lands.
22.       The period of water supply determines to a large extent what crops
are grown. If irrigation is provided only during the period July-November,
virtually no cotton would be grown. If the irrigation period is extended
three months, a large part of the area would probably be under cotton.
23.       The Government can also decide on the scope and operating efficiency
of the irrigation system through its investment program. Thus the model was
designed to handle the following decision variables:
(a) allocation of water to the command area;
(b) size of the command area;
(c) localization (IW or ID);
(d) period of irrigation;
1/   From the Development Research Center and the South Asia Projects Departmernt.
191



ANNEX 14
Page 6
(e) level of extension services;
(f) CAD investments, and
(g) investments to improve conveyance and operational
efficiencies of the system.
24.       The AGINT model requires the following information:
(a) For each of the 20 sub-areas:
size
soil type
--   conveyance and operational losses from the dam
to the sub-area
(b) For each of eight cropping plans:
--   monthly irrigation requirements per ha
--   economic net value of production per ha
--   financial net value of production per ha
labor requirements per ha
--   gross value of output (in financial terms) per ha
(c) Field irrigation efficiencies for ID and IW lands for black
and red soils
(d) Overall water allocation
(e) Capacity of the canal.
25.       The eight cropping plans were projected in accordance with the local-
ization (IW or ID) and the period of' irrigation. In most models of this type,
the program determines which crop should be grown where. However, as mentioned
above, the Government can not enforce a specific cropping pattern, but it can
decide about the amount and timing of the water supplied. The AGINT formula-
tion thus gives results that are more realistic, by focussing on GOAP's de-
cision variables and by the use of exogenously projected farmers' responses
to GOAP's water allocation decisions. 1/
1/   In this case, the cropping paterns have been projected by an experienced
agriculturalist. However, the Development Research Center has recently
designed and tested computer models that can be used for projecting
cropping patterns.
192



ANNEX 14
Page 7
26.       Given the overall water allocation to the command area and the
(monthly) capacity constraints of the main canal, AGINT determines the opti-
mal cropping plan for each sub-area. (The mathematical structure of the
model is described in Appendix 4.) Two different assumptions regarding field
irrigation requirements were used: one corresponding to the Bank's estimates
and one corresponding to GOI's estimates (Annex 5). Furthermore, two different
assumptions on the overall availability of water for each canal were tested:
180 TMC and 200 TMC. The analysis was based on estimated present convey-
ance and operational efficiencies and on projected field water requirements
after full CAD.
27.       Two different objective functions were used:
(a) maximize net economic value based on efficiency prices; and
(b) maximize net social value, which is achieved through an
adjustment of the efficiency benefits for increased farm
incomes and direct and indirect employment effects.
The calculations of economic and social benefits and costs are based on the
assumptions in paragraphs 5-11.
28.       By progressively excluding the tail parts of the command area and
repeating the optimization, the functional relationship between the size of
the command area and the objective function can be established.
29.       The computer analysis shows that total agricultural production
increases with the command area. However, the net benefits from additional
areas brought under irrigation become smaller and smaller. The point where
the marginal benefits of extending the system equals the marginal cost, marks
the optimum size of the command area. At efficiency prices, the marginal
cost 1/ is about Rs 300 per ac (Rs 756 per ha) and at social prices the
marginal cost 1/ is about Rs 270 per ac (Rs 680 per ha). 2/
30.       The results of the analysis are summarized in the table below and
illustrated in Figures 1-5. (Due to its larger size, the RBC command area
will experience more of a water shortage than the LBC command area. Many
of the results for the LBC are relatively trivial and have not been shown
in the Figures).
1/   Capital costs are recovered over 20 years at 10% interest.
2/   The social cost is less than the economic cost since the farmers pay
the costs for CAD civil works. Since these farmers have an income
weight of less than one, the social cost of their outlays is less
than if the public sector had borne the full cost.
*193



ANNEX 14
Page 8
Water      Field Water      Objective   Optimal Size of the Command Area
Allocation   Requirements    Function          LBC                        RBC
-----------million ac----------
180            IDA          Economic          0.95 /a                 1.03 /b
180            IDA          Social       over 1.0                over 1.2 /c
180            GOI          Economic    over 1.0                      1.2
200            IDA          Economic    over 1.0                      1.2 /b
200            IDA          Social       over 1.0                over 1.2
Proposed size of the Command Area:            0.98                    1.17
/a   See Figures 1 and 3.
/b   See Figures 2 and 4.
/c   See Figures 2 and 5.
31.       One interesting result emerges from the introduction of income dis-
tributional weights. The total benefits resulting from the whole command area
are less when expressed in social terms than in efficiency terms. However,
the marginal social benefits of extending the area are larger than the margn-
al economic benefits. Thus, the combination of efficiency and income distri-
butional objectives gives a larger size of the command area than pure effi-
ciency considerations. Taking income distributional objectives into consider-
ation, the extensions proposed by GOAP are justified.
32.       The dual solution to the linear programming model gives the oppor-
tunity cost of water at the dam. One additional cubic meter of water to RBC
and LBC at the dam would give a production increase of Rs 0.24 and Rs 0.20,
respectively, at an overall allocation of 180 TMC to each canal. Since the
losses in the two conveyance systems are about 35%, the value of water at
the pipe outlet is higher (Rs 0.30 - 0.35 per m3). These figures are based
on assumed field irrigation efficiencies that would result after CAD. Without
CAD, the opportunity cost of water at the pipe outlet is about Rs 0.2 per m3.
Economic Analysis of NSP Canal Extensions
33.       "With Project" Situations.  This is based on the design cropping
patterns, which seem likely to occur after full CAD and with effective agri-
cultural extension services and improved water management. The projected
yields with the project and the design cropping patterns are discussed in
Annex 12. Input requirements are shown in Annex 13.
34.       "Without Project" Situation.  The water that will be used in the
new areas could either have been used for a more intensive irrigation in the
already commanded areas or for other command areas in the Krishna Basin.
194



ANNEX 14
Page 9
Ideally, the marginal productivity of water in both the already developed
parts of NSP and other Krishna Basin projects should be known.
35.       The marginal productivity of water in NSP depends on the level of
water management. In order not to over estimate the benefits of the pro-
posed extensions, the same level of water management is assumed to exist
without the project as with the project. Thus, the "without project" situa-
tion assumes full CAD in the already irrigated areas.
36.       For this analysis, it has also been assumed that the allocation
of water to NSP would be the same without the extension of the command area
as with the proposed extension. This assumption gives a conservative esti-
mate of project benefits, since, for the next two decades, large amounts of
water, in excess of its allocation, would be available, to Andhra Pradesh,
and the opportunity cost of this water is low.
37.        The "without project" cropping patterns have been projected based
on the cropping patterns in the most developed parts of the already commanded
areas. This procedure has resulted in water requirements that are very close
to the water requirements of the design cropping patterns. Minor adjustments
were then made to make the "without" and "with" project water requirements
conform.
38.       Built-up rates.  Each command area has been divided into ten sub-
areas and a built-up rate has been defined for each, depending on the time
when it received or will receive irrigation the first time.  The implemen-
tation of CAD over the full command area would take about 15 years. Thus,
the build-up of overall benefits is assumed to take 20 years (Figure 7).
39.       Results.  The economic cost and benefit steams all based on the
assumptions discussed in paragraphs 5 to 11 and 34 to 40 are shown in Tables
2 to 4. The resulting economic rates of return are:
Left Bank Canal Extension        =  10-13%
Right Bank Canal Extension    =   9-12%
The results are highly sensitive to the assumed irrigation efficiencies and
the rate with which the irrigation intensity in the already developed areas
have to be reduced. The interval for the rate of return reflects this un-
certainty.
Social Evaluation of NSP Canal Extensions
40.       The mechanics of introducing income distributional weights is quite
simple and follows the method described in paragraph 8. The basic difficulty
is the identification and quantification of income effects. In this analysis
three income effects have been identified: increased farm incomes due to
increased land rent; increased direct farm employment, and indirect employment
effects. Since the calculation of efficiency prices for most agricultural
195



ANNEX 14
Page 10
products is based on the assumption that they are traded, no changes in local
market prices have been assumed. The calculation of economic prices for non-
traded products is based on the assumption that there is a high degree of sub-
stitution between traded and non-traded goods.  Thus., it is assumed that the
increased output of non-traded gcods will not result in any price changes.
41.       Increased Farm Incomes.  The total financial net return to farming
-- over the 20 year development period -- is calculated for the ten sub-areas
used in the economic analysis. Ihe average "with" and "without" project re-
turns per ha were calculated for each of the sub-areas. Income weights (as
calculated in Appendix 3) have been applied to the annual income increments
in each area.  The resulting social costs and benefits from increased farm
incomes are shown in Tables 3 to 4.
42.       Employment Effects.  The direct and indirect employment effects are
discussed in Appendix 2. Two alternative assumptions can be made regarding
the functioning of the labor market:
(a) substantial under-employment exists and the increased demand
for labor would thus directly result in increased labor in-
come. The total social value of this income increase is
SCF x W x A  L x (di - 1) where W is the market wage, A  L
incremental employment, d1 = distributional weight for laborers.
(b) No under-employment exists. The increased demand for labor
would thus result in a bidding up of the wage rate but with
no increases in employment.  The social value of this wage
charge is: SCF x W x A L/(ef + en) x (d1 - de) where ef
and en are the wage elasticities of demand for labor in the
farming and non-farming sectors and, de is the distributional
weight for employers.
43.       Most indications are that the labor market in Andhra Pradesh is
fairly efficient and there is no large scale underemployment on a yearly basis.
Consequently, the analysis is based on assumption (b). Typically, the elasticity
of demand for labor is slightly less than unity. Conservatively, it has been
assumed that both ef and en = 1. The estimates of d1 and de are discussed in
Appendix 3.
44.       Water Charges.  The net farm incomes discussed above have not taken
water charges into account. In crder to analyze the effects on the
social rate of return of different levels of water charges, these have been
treated separately. The social value of water charges is: W x (1 - df), where,
W is the total amount of water charges paid in a year and df is the average
.196



ANNEX 14
Page 11
distributional weight for farmers. The farmers will pay for the CAD civil
works and their economic cost has been multiplied with (1 - df), to get the
social cost.
45.       Social Rates of Return.  Given these assumptions, the social rates
of return are:
Left Bank Canal Extension  =   12-15%
Right Bank Canal Extension =   11-14%
If the water charges are kept at their present low levels, the social rates
of return are roughly 1% lower.
April 1976
-197



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Calculation of Costs and Benefits
Command Area Development Program
Year
1         2           3           4-13           14-20
(--    --------------- Rs per ha -----------------)
Financial Costs and Benefits
Public
Civil works                                           -1,500    0           0            0                0
Planning, design and supervision                        -600    0           0            0                0
Loan repayment                                          -       0           0         +250                o
-2,100    0           0                            025  
Direct beneficiary
Yield loss/gain                                            0   -825        -275       +550             +550
Loan repayment                                             O    O           0         -250                o
0   -825        -275       +300            +550
External beneficiaries
Increased production                                       0   +200        +400       +500             +500
Economic Costs and Benefits
Civil works                                           -1,260    0           0            0                0
Planning, design and supervision                        -480    0           0            0                0
Production increase                                        0   -625        +125    +1 ,050          +1 050
Production increase                        O   -6~~~~725   +125    +100+05
-1,740               +12 ,       050          +1050
Net Social Cost of Increased Consumption
Direct beneficiary (d = 0.55)                              0   +300        +100       -110            -200               3
External beneficiaries (d = 0.55)                          0   - 70        -140       -180            -180
00                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 +230         -290             30



ANNEX 14
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATIION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Economic Investment and O&M Costs:
NSP LBC & RBC Extensions
O&N
Irri gation                                                      and
Infrastmieture           Roads                 CAD          Agric. Extension
Year       LBC         RBC        LBC      RBC         LBC     RBC      LBC           RBC
---Rs million------------------------
1        152         120         4        3           3       2        1             1
2        152         105         5        h           5       4        2             2
3        143         106         6        5           9       7        3             3
4        137         107         7        5          1U       8        5             4
5        136         105         5        4          14      10        6             5
6         0           0          0        0          17      12        8             6
7         0           0          0        0          19      14        9             7
8         0           0          0        0          23      17        9             7
9-15      0           0          0        0          27      20        9             7
16         0           0          0        0           7        5       9             7
17-50      0           0          0        0           0        0       9             7
'199.



Table 3
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Economic and Social Benefits: NSP LBC Extension
Income Benefits
Labor         Water
Farm Incomes               Incomes        Charges
Net         Social Cost       Social          Social                        Net
Efficiency          of         Benefits of    Benefits of        Social       Social
Year     Benefits      Consumption    Consumption    Consumption    Benefits    Benefits
1         0                0              0                0              0            0
2        -3               +2             +1                0              0            0
3        -6               +5             +1                0             +1           +1
4       -12              +10             +1               -1             +2            0
5       -20              +16             +2               -1             +5           +2
6       -27              +22             +8               -1             +9          +11
7       -31              +25            +14               -2           +14           +20
8       -22              +18            +24               -1           +21           +40
9       -11               +9            +40               -1            +26          +63
10         +5              -4            +54                0            +31          +86
11       +25             -21             +71               +1            +33         +109
12       +59              -48            +90               +3            +25         +139
13       +95             -78            +108               +5            +29         +169
1)4     +144            -118            +125                +8          +)42         +201
15      +199            -163            +142              +11            +45         +234
16      +258            -212            +158               +14           +47         +265
17      +310            -254            +173              +17            +48         +294
18      +348             -285           +186               +19           +49         +317
19      +381            -312            +195              +21            +50         +335
20      +X404            -331           +202              +22            +50         +347
21      +41l5           -340            +205              +22            +50         +352
22      +415            -340            +205              +22            +41         +343
23      +415            -34o            +205              +22            +32         +334
24      +415            -3140           +205              +22            +23         +325
25      +415            -340            +205              +22            +14         +316
26-50   +415            -340            +205               +22           +5          +307
.200



ANNEX 14
Table 4
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Economic and Social Benefits: NSP RBC Ectension
Income Effects
Net                Farm Incomes                 Labor      Water        Net
Efficiency    Social Cost       Social Benefits   Incomes   Charges         Social
Year    Benefits   of Consumption    of Consumption         Social    Social      Benefits
Benefits Benefits
(--------------------------------- Rs million ---------------------------------)
1          0               0                   0             0         0             0
2       -2              +  1               +  1              0         0             0
3          4            +  3               +  1            -1        + 1              0
4       -8              +  6                +  1           -2        + 2              1
5       -13             + 10               +  2           -3         + 4             0
6       -17             + 14               +  5            -4        + 7          +  5
7       - 20            + 16               +  9           -5         +10          + 10
8       - 14            + 11               + 15            - 3       +15          + 24
9       -  7            +  6               + 25            - 2       +19          + 41
10       +  3            -  3               + 34              0       +23          + 57
11       + 16            - 13               + 45           + 2        +24          + 74
12       + 37            - 30               + 57           + 6        +26          + 96
13       + 60            - 49                + 68           +12       +29          +120
14       + 91            - 74               + 79            +18       +31          +145
15       +125            -103               + 89            +25       +33          +169
16       +163            -134               +100           +32        +35          +196
17       +195            -160               +109            +39       +35          +218
18       +219            -180                +117           +44       +36          +236
19       +240            -197               +123            +48       +37          +251
20       +254            -209                +127           +52       +37          +261
21       +261            -214                +129           +52       +37          +265
22       +261            -214                +129           +52       +29          +257
23       +261            -214                +129           +52       +22          +250
24       +261            -214                +129           +52        +15         +243
25       +261            -214                +129           +52       + 7          +235
26-50     +261             -214               +129           +52        + 0          +228
201



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NSP LBC: Relationship Between the Size of the Command Area and the Net Economic Benefits
Economic Net Benefits
(Rs billion)
2.0
Water allocation:
200 TMC
180 TMC
1.0
065
._________ __________ __________ __________ __________  Size   of   Com mand
0.2       0.4        0.6        0.8        1.0                Area (million ac)
r'.3
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NSP RBC: Relationship Between the Size of the Command Area and Net Economic/Social Benefits
Net Benefits
(Rs billion)
Water allocation:
200 TMC
2.0                                                                       180 THC
1 .5~
/ 180 TMC
1.0
065
C
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N r



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NSP LBC: Marginal Economic Costs and Benefits of Extending the Command Area
Marginal Cost and Benefits
(Rs per ac)
1,600
1,4;00
MB                                   MB  Marginal benefits of
1,200                         \                                           extending the command
1, 200                                                                  Area (180 TMC)
MC = Marginal cost of extend-
1,000                             \                                       ing the command area
800                                 X
600
MC -     ~     w_    . MC
200
0:E o.'~~ 0:8 * - ~.. Size of Command
d0.2 -   0'4      0 .16     0.8      1 .70     1. 2    Area (million ac)
CD 1 



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NSP RBC: Marginal Economic Costs and Benefits of Extending the Command Area
Marginal Costs and Benefits
(RS per ac)
2,000   *
1,800                               MB
1,600                       MB
1,200 
1,000
800
600
400
Mc               ~~~~Mc
200  HC   HB - 200 TMC
0:2200'   0.6                 :8   '   1          1:2  MB  -       180 TMC
|  0 2   *   0h   *   0'6        0 8   *   1 0   '  1'2 tbo Size o(f Command
o~~~~~~~~~:                              :  ~       .8v1.     .                                ra(ilo e
Ln~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O10



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NSP RBC: Marginal Social Costs and Benefits of Extending the Command Area
Marginal Costs and Benefits
(Rs per ac)
1,800
MB                                             MB   Marginal benefits of
1,600                                                                                     extending the command
area
121400                                                                              MC    Marginal costs of
extending the command
area
1,200
1,000
800
600
400                                                                              MB - 180 TMC
MC                           MC
200
Size of Command
0.2        0.14        0.6         0.8         1.0         1.2         Area (million ac)
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ii



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
(Rs million)        Build-Up of Project Benefits: NSP Canal Extensions
LBC: Economic Benefits
400
LEC3 Social Benefits
300
oRE: Economic Benefits
RBC: Social Benefits
200
100
j  5    ~~~ 10              15             20            25
N)
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
-'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



ANNEX 14
Appendix I
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
General
1.        The estimated future economic prices of internationally traded
agricultural inputs and outputs are derived from projected world market
prices expressed in 1976 currency values 1/ with appropriate adjustments
for freight, handling, processing and quality differences.
2.        The estimated future financial prices are based on projected
domestic prices. For a few years during the early 1970s, India experienced
a severe shortage of foodgrains which resulted in a rapid increase of
food prices. Consequently, it is assumed for the farm budget analysis that
the relative prices of most food crops will fall slightly up to 1985 and
return to their relative price level of 1970-72. The world market prices
for comparable commodities show a similar trend, but generally a sharper
fall is projected.
3.        The domestic prices of some commodities (chilles, for example)
fluctuate widely from year to year. If the ratios of their prices to the
price of rice have not shown any noticeable trend over the last decade,
the long-term averages of the ratios have been used for the projections.
Economic Prices for Traded Agricultural Outputs
4.        The economic prices for traded goods are based on their border
prices at the official exchange rate. The domestic cost components are
adjusted with a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8. (For a further
discussion of SCF see Annex 14, paragraph 5.)
Economic Prices for Non-Traded Agricultural Outputs
5.        Many of the agricultural products are not traded internationally
or only to a very limited degree. Especially the foodgrains are highly
supplementary and the increased output of a non-traded one tends to decrease
1/   "Price Forecasts for Major Primary Commodities" IBRD Report No. 814,
July 1975. The prices in this report are expressed in 1973 currency
values and have been adjusted by a factor of 1.42 in order to bring
the estimates up to January 1976 currency values.
208



ANNEX 14
Appendix 1
Page 2
the imports of a traded one. The domestic price for the non-traded food-
grains reflects this substitution effect but also taste differentials
and relative production costs. Consequently, the economic price for these
goods is based on the economic price for rice multiplied with the ratio
between the financial price for the non-traded good and the price for rice.
In the case of sorghum, this has resulted in an economic price that is
approximately 50% higher than the world market price. This is clearly
justified since Indian sorghum is a foodgrain while most of the sorghum
on the world market is used for cattle feed and the nutritional value of
sorghum is not significantly different from the nutritional value of rice.
Financial Prices for Fertilizers and Pesticides
6.        Fertilizers in India are sold at controlled prices.  Due to the
recent international shortage of fertilizers, the world market prices are
exceptionally high. Thus, at present, the prices that Indian farmers pay
for nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers are heavily subsidized. However,
the projected world market prices for 1985 are very close to the present
Indian prices. Consequently, for the farm budget analysis, it is assumed
that the present controlled prices will remain unchanged.
April 1976
209



ANNEX 14
Appendix 1
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Summary of Price Assumptions
Financial Prices               Economic Prices
Rupees per ton                 Rupees per ton
1976 5/ 19857 1985
Crops
Rice (paddy)                1,590            1,400         1,770           1,430
Sorghum                     1,940            1,800         1,970           1,830
Pearl millet                1,740            1,570         1,770           1,590
Minor millets               1,940            1,830         1,970           1,860
Pulses                      2,440            3,250         2,000           2,6h0
Cotton (kapas)              2,940            2,950         3,620           3,620
Groundnuts                   3,200           3,420          2,640          2,800
Chillies                    6,900            8,800         7,070           8,900
Sugarcane                     170              175           160              90
Agricultural Inputs
Nitrogen fertilizer  /      4,000            4,000         6,250           4,060
Phosphate fertilizer 1/     4,500            4,500         6,750           3,640
Potassium fertilizer 1/      2,000           2,000         2,050           1,830
Peak wage rate 2/                5               5              4              4
Animal power W                   4               4              4              4
1/ Per ton of nutrient
2/ Per man-day
3/ See Annex 14, Appendix 2
/ Per animal-day
Based on projections made in mid-1975.
*210



ANNEX 14
Appendix 2
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Labor Analysis
(Nagarjunasagar Command Areas)
A. General
1.        The population density in the Nagarjunasagar Right Bank and Left
Bank command areas is approximately 3.4 and 2.8 persons per cultivated
hectare, respectively; these densities correspond fairly closely to the
average density of 3.2 persons per cultivated hectare for Andhra Pradesh as
a whole. In spite of this relatively low man-to-land ratio, the ownership
of land is distributed unequally. Andhra Pradesh is one of only two
States 1/ in India in which the proportion of the agricultural population
classified as 'landless laborers' exceeds the proportion classified as
'cultivators'. The 1971 Census calculated that out of 12.62 M workers
engaged in the agricultural sector in the whole State, 5.79 M (45.9%) were
cultivators and 6.83 M (54.1%) landless laborers 2/. A breakdown of these
figures by District indicates a lower pecentage (37.2%) were classified
as cultivators in the project area and correspondingly a higher percentage
(62.8%) as landless laborers.
2.        Land ownership is also highly concentrated within the cultivator
group. Average farm sizes in the Right and Left Bank command areas are 3.2
and 3.6 ha, respectively, but the median sizes are 1.6 and 2.0 ha, respec-
tively, reflecting the high proportion of small farms. On the Right Bank,
58%, and on the Left Bank, 53% of farms are in the less than two hectares
category. Since, at present, an average sized family 3/ requires appioxi-
mately 2.0 ha of unirrigated or 1.0 ha of irrigated land to meet basic sub-
sistence needs, it can be concluded that approximately 50% of cultivators,
and 80% of all families in the project area engaged in agriculture, have
insufficient land for the production of subsistence requirements. Conse-
quently, the large majority of workers are dependent upon wage employment for
all or part of their income.
1/   The other is Kerala.
2/   Census of India 1971, Part II-A, Andhra Pradesh.
3/   The average sized family in the command areas is 4.8 persons.  Accord-
ing to the Agro-Economic Survey, the average size of a farm family in
the Left Bank command area is between six and eight persons. This
reflects the fact that family size is closely correlated with land
ownership. The results of the 25th round of the National Sample
Survey (1970-71) confirm these data.
211



ANNEX 14
Appendix 2
Page 2
3.        Thus, the impact of the project on the large majority of people
in the project area depends upon how much employment will be generated by
the project, both within agricultural and non-agricultural activities, and
upon the movement of wages. This Appendix sets out projections of the impact;
they should be regarded as orders of magnitude rather than precise estimates,
chiefly because there exists a relatively poor data base even on the present
employment situation. Most of the data in this Appendix are taken from the
1971 Census of India, the Andhra Pradesh Annual Statistics, the Annual
Season and Crop Report and an Agro-Economic Survey carried out in the Left
Bank command area during 1974.
Labor Supply
4.        Based on the results of the 1971 Census, it is estimated that the
Nagarjunasagar Right Bank command area has a population of about 1.6 million
and the Left Bank about 1.1 million. Using a growth rate of 1.7% per annum
(the average rate of growth for the rural population in Andhra Pradesh be-
tween 1961 and 1971), the population in the two command areas will have in-
creased to 2.40 million and 1.65 million, respectively, by the year 2000 (see
Table 1).
5.        The calculation of the size of the labor force and the annual
labor supply within the project area has been confronted by a number of
difficulties, notably the projection of female participation rates and the
existence of migration of seasonal labor into the command areas. In Andhra
Pradesh, it is common and economically necessary for women from low income
families to work in the fields; almost half of the daily agricultural laborers
are women, although very few are cultivators. The labor force participation
rate for females is approximately 29% 1/, the highest rate in India and more
than double the national average of 14%. The labor force participation rate
for males is at present approxiamtely 58%, and it is assumed that this will
continue over the next 25 years. Projections of female participation rates
are more difficult to make with confidence, since little time series data
exist for India. Such data as exist 2/ suggests that female participation
rates typically decline where the irrigated area increases and when the area
under rice increases; in other words, female participation rates decline with
higher incomes. The figures in the table below have been estimated on the
assumption that, by the year 2000, female participation will have fallen to
approximately 22%. This gives an overall labor force participation rate of
40%, compared to the present rate of 43%.
1/   1971 Census.
2/   See, in particular, L. Gulati in the Economic and Political Weekly,
January 11, 1975, and D. Narasumha Reddy in the EPW, June 7, 1975.
212



ANNEX 14
Appendix 2
Page 3
Population          Labor Force        Annual Labor Supply
Year           (millions)           (millions)       (millions of man-days)
RBC       LBC       RBC        LBC      RBC                LBC
1976         1.60       1.10     0.69       0.47      166                113
1980         1.71       1.18     0.73       0.50      175                120
1985         1.86       1.28     0.78       0.54      187                128
1990         2.03       1.39     0.84       0.57      202                138
2000         2.40       1.65      0.96      o.66      230                158
6.        Labor migration is a common feature of agricultural activity
thoughout Andhra Pradesh, reflecting the seasonal and regional concentration
of employment opportunities and the necessity for a large proportion of the
work force to seek employment outside their immediate surroundings in order
to avoid starvation. Its characteristics can be described but its dimensions
cannot be accurately assessed for there is practically no data on labor
movements.
7.        Most of the irrigation occurs over a short distance for a limited
period (usually during planting and harvesting seasons); typically workers
from one village (chiefly landless laborers but also cultivators with in-
sufficient land to provide for subsistence requirements) supplying a neigh-
boring village with labor. A considerable amount of migrant labor travels
longer distances and for longer periods; much comes from tribal areas and
appears to be organized by labor contractors. Most of the migration involves
workers living within the project area (thus, the size of the aggregate labor
force is not affected) but some are drawn from outside the project area. No
data exists to indicate even the approximate size of the flow and projections
of future-flows are exceedingly difficult to make with any confidence. It is
expected that migration to the project areas will increase slightly with the
increase in peak monthly labor requirements, but such increases depend upon
the scale of agricultural improvements in the areas from which the migrants
are drawn. However, due to the more even spread of employment opportunities
within the area, the internal migration will be substantially reduced. The
labor supply figures presented in para. 5 do not include an estimate of
migrant labor drawn from outside the project area. Thus, they should be seen
as a lower limit of the labor supply in the project area.
8.        The estimates of labor supply have been made using an average
of 240 days per annum per worker. This figure takes into account two
countervailing tendencies: firstly, the young and the old who are in-
cluded in the labor force estimates frequently can do only less than a
full days work. Secondly, during periods of peak agricultural activity,
213



ANNEX 14
Appendix 2    -
Page 4
people work long hours and practically all available labor is involved
in agriclture. Consequently, the peak monthly labor supply is higher
than the average for the year. Given the assumptions used, the labor
supply will increase by approximateLy 40% in both command areas by the
year 2000.
Labor Demand
9.        The sectoral breakdown of the rural labor force in NSP 1/ at the
time of the 1971 Census is shown in Table 1. In addition to a similar employ-
ment structure in both command areas, the figures indicate that all but 23%
of    labor force is engaged in agriculture, at least in terms of primary
occupation 2/. Although the figures do not take into account multiple occu-
pations, they can be regarded as sufficiently accurate to demonstrate that
most of the demand for labor derives from agriculture; furthermore approx-
imately two-thirds of the demand for labor outside agriculture are dependent
upon agricultural activity and incomes.
10.       Estimates of farm labor requirements are given in Tables 2 and 3.
These figures, calculated on the basis of the cropping patterns in Annex 12
and field labor requirements in Annex 13, and on the implicit assumption
that the project would be accompanied by insignificant mechanization, in-
dicate increased demand for farm labor whether the project is carried out
or not. However, in the Right Bank command area, the project would in-
crease farm employment from about 68 M man-days per annum without the
project to about 77 M man-days with the project. On the Left Bank command
area, the switch from paddy to less water-intensive and labor-using crops
would lead to a slight decrease in farm employment from 71 M to 70 M man-
days.
11.       The aggregate figures of annual farm labor demand conceal
important changes in seasonal and geographical distribution. The change
of geographical distribution is the most significant; without the extension
of the irrigated area envisaged in the project, most of the farm labor
would be required in those parts of the command areas already receiving
irrigation with the project, there would be a reduction of requirements
in these areas) and a compensating increase in the newly-irrigated areas.
Thus, on the Left Bank, the FWO and FW requirements in the presently-irrigated
areas would be 38 M and 21 M man-days, respectively; the corresponding figures
for the Right Bank would be 58 and 52 M man-days. The main impact of this
change will be to provide a more equitable distribution between population and
employment opportunities and thereby reduce migration.
1/   Excluding all towns with a population of more than 5,000.
2/   The NICD Agro-Economic Survey indicated that most cultivators worked
other than on their own farm and that approximately 45% had non-
agricultural employment, particularly 'business.
214



ANNEX 14
Appendix 2
Page 5
12.       Using as a basis the present level of non-farm employment in the
project areas, it is estimated that agricultural production valued at one
million rupees creates 19,000 man-days of non-farm employment. Assuming
that, in the future, an additional one million rupees creates 15,000 man-
days, significant changes in non-farm employment would resut in both FWO
and FW situations 1/. At present, non-farm employment is approximately 63 M
man-days; in FWO, it is estimated to increase to 114 M man-days and in FW to
129 M man-days. Of the additional 15 M man-days attributable to the project,
8 M would be created on the Left Bank and 7 M on the Right.
13.       The implication of these labor demand figures when compared with
projected labor supply is clear (see Table 2); with or without the project,
the percentage of underemployed will decrease, and it will decrease a
little more with the project than without. Between 1976 and 1995, the labor
supply will increase from 279 M to 364 M man-days. At present, total demand
for labor is 159 M man-days; given the assumptions used in the economic
analysis, it will rise to 253 M man-days in FWO and 277 M man-days in FW.
Thus the percentage of available man-days which are used will increase from
57% in the present, to 70% in FWO and 76% in FW. To the extent that the
supply of migrant labor has been omitted from the figures, they should be
regarded as upper bounds; nevertheless, it appears a reasonable conclusion
that the project will result in a decline in underemployment.
Wage Rates
14.       Wage rates in agriculture in Andhra Pradesh are differentiated by
season and a person's gender; the seasonal variation reflects the variations
in demand for labor and in arduousness of the work. Peak daily wages for
males are approximately Rs 5, although away from the larger towns such as
Guntur, they are little more than Rs 4, and the off-peak wage for males is
approximately Rs 3. For females, the corresponding figures are approximately
Rs 3.50 and Rs 2.
15.       Wages are paid in cash or kind; there appears to be no consistent
mode of payment within the project area and the payment in cash or kind rests
upon negotiation between cultivator and worker, the final arrangement being
determined by a number of factors which include the farmer's cash resources,
the type of grain available for payment and the availability of rice locally.
1/   Most regional economic models (especially the so called "economic base"
model) assume a constant relationship between the primary and the
secondary and tertiary sectors. If there are no economies of scale
in the secondary and tertiary sectors and no technological changes, the
employment generated in these sectors would be directly proportional
to the changes in agricultural production.
.215



ANNEX 14
Appendix 2
Page 6
In the case of labor performed by one small cultivator for another
cultivator, there may be no wage payment, but rather an exchange of
labor.
Economic Opportunity Cost of Farm Labor
16.       Scarcity of detailed data on farm income levels, off-farm employ-
ment opportunities, and the profile of the agricultural labor force makes
the evaluation of economic shadow rates for farm labor fairly subjective.
Economic farm labor costs were estiriated by using monthly shadow rates
reflecting different opportunity costs associated with various segments of
the labor force and slack and peak periods during the year.
17.       On the basis of available information about the project area and
experience from similar areas, it is postulated that the marginal opportun-
ity cost of farm labor can be represented by an "S-shaped" curve. The
marginal opportunity cost of farm labor is positive at all levels of demand
and increases when more labor is absorbed into field work. The increase in
opportunity cost is initially slow and reflects the scarcity of alternative
productive employment, but it is more rapid when the full labor supply is
utilized. At employment levels above the maximum available in the area,
the opportunity cost would again increase at a slower rate since a large
number of migrants would be attracted to the project area from neighboring
areas where there is substantial unceremployment. In practice, it is
reasonable to approximate this idealized "S-shaped" curve by three
straight segments.
18.       Figure 1 gives the curve of approximate shadow rates used in the
analysis. The curve shows the estimated marginal opportunity cost of labor
as a function of demand (expressed as a proportion of the supply). The
shape of the curve is based on the following assumptions:
(a)  at minimum employment levels, the marginal cost
would be the value of additional consumption
needed for family members to undertake field
work (Rs 0.70 per man-day 1/), plus the value
of foregone activities such as fishing, home
improvement, etc. (Rs 0.8C per man-day);
(b)  when the monthly employment just exceeds 60% of the
full supply, the marginal cost would be the minimum
market rate (Rs 3.00 man-day);
1/   Taken as 75% of the current average daily consumption of foodgrains
(16 oz per day).
216



ANNEX 14
Appendix 2
Page 7
(c) at a monthly labor demand corresponding to the present
peak level, the marginal cost would be equal to the
maximum market rate (Rs 5.00 man-day);
(d)  when the employment is equal to or larger than the
estimated supply of farm labor from the area, the labor
would be drawn from non-farm activities and opportunity
cost would increase to about Rs 5.50 per man-day, since
at this wage rate, a large number of migrants would be
attracted to the project area.
19.       The economic opportunity cost of farm labor is equal to the area
under the curve up to the employment level for each month. The monthly
farm labor requirements with the project are shown in Table 3.
April 1976
217



ANNEX 14-
Appendix 2
Table 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Sectoral Breakdown of the Proj,ect Area Labor Force
Sector              Right Bank (%)            Left Bank (%)         Total Area (%)
Cultivators             29.4                     29.0                   29.2
Laborers - Agriculture  49.7                     47.0                   47.9
Livestock and
Forestry                 2.7                      4.7                    3.7
Mining and
Quarrying                0.3                      0.5                    0.4
Household
Manufacture              2.9                      4.9                    3.9
Other manufacture        3.3                      1.4                    2.4
Construction             1.4                      3.1                    2.3
Trade and Commerce       3.5                      2.9                    3.2
Transport and Storage    0.7                      0.6                    0.6
Other Services           5.9                      5.9                    5 9
218.



ANNEX 1a
Aendixa 2
Table 2
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Labor Supply and Demand
Present         FWO        FW
(million man-days)
On-farm demand                          96           139       148
Non-farm demand                         63           114       129
Total demand                           159           253       277
Total supply                           279           364        364
Demand as % of supply                   57%           70%       76%
219



ANNEX 14
Appendix 2
Table 3
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Monthly Farm Labor Requirements
(NSP Command Areas)
NSP RBC                              NSP LBC
FWO               FW                 FWO                 FW
( -million man-days ---------------- T
January         5.2              6.1                  2.9               3.8
February        2.8              3.2                 2.3                2.2
March           2.L              2.6                 2.9                2.5
April           2.9              0.4                  6.1               0.5
May             3.2              3.6                 0.6                L.2
June            3.6              4.l                4.2                4.5
July           1O.4             13.0                11.6               12.5
August          5.9              8.2                 6.2                7.0
September      4.9               6.4                 4.8                5.3
October         3.2              4.3                  3.L               3.8
November       12.9             14.1                13.5               12.4
December      10.6              11.8                12.7               11.2
Total         68.0              77.8                71.2               69.9
220



INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Marginal Economic Cost of Farm Labor
Rupee s/Man-day
6.0
5.0
4.0
3.0
2.0
1.0
LaLbor Demand as
10    20~   3'0   Co0      0    60    70      b    90    10)0  11r0   120         % of' Local Supply
I-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dr



ANNEX 14
Appendix 3
Page 1
INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CA) CC4POSITE ROJECT
Calculation of Income Distribution Weights
Basic Formulas
For marginal income changes:
d        C
Ci
For non-marginal changes:
d   =   loge (02) - loge (C)        C
C2 -
'Where:
d   =   income distribution weight
=   average consumption level (Rs 1,000)
C1  =   original consumption level
C2  =   consumption level after increase
loge (x)  =   natural logarithm of  x
Since it has been assumed that savings and consumption is equally
valuable (Annex 14, para 6) "income" can be substituted for "consumption".
Average Distribution Weight for Farmers
The income of farmers come from t,wo sources: Net income from farming
(after deducting full cost for both family and hired labor) plus income
from off-farm employment or from work on the family farm, resulting in
lower expenditures for hired labor.
Approximately, the per capita income (Ci) for a family operating a farm
of size Zi can be written as:
Zi x NFP
Ci  =   CO  +    Si
Where CO = per capita income from work on-farm or off-farm.
*222



ANNEX 14
Appendix 3
Page 2
Si  =   family size for a family operating a farm of Z  ha
NFP = net financial value of farm production per ha
Family sizes are based on the 1974 agro-economic survey.
Based on farm budget analyses and the agro-economic survey CO has been
estimated at Rs 300 per capita.
The distributional weight for a marginal change in the value of output
per ha is:
di = C
Ci
The net value of production per ha is fairly constant for all farm sizes
(Annex 13). Thus the percentage of the land (Pi) belonging to farmers in
a specific size group also determines the percentage of the benefits that
goes to this group. Thus if the net value of production in an area
increases*Y rupees, the soical value (B) of this increase is:
B   =        d. x (Pi xA Y)
which can be rewritten as:
B   =   df  XL.YL=Y X Z  Pi  x  di
thus
df  =        pi x di
where  df  =   average distribution weight for farmers.
Since di is a direct function of NFP and NFP is more or less constant
over all farm sizes, df is a direct function of NFP.
For the calculation of the coefficients in the linear progravming model,
the distribution weights have been calculated with the formula for non-
marginal changes.
For the social analysis of NSP canal extensions, the marginal formula has
been used to express d as a function of NFP (Figure 1). For large changes
in NFP, the average between the "with" and "without project" situations
have been used. This results in a negligible underestimation of project
benefits.
Distribution Weight for Laborers
The average daily wage in the NSP area is about Rs 4. The average labor
force participation rate is 43% and the average number of days worked per
year is estimated at 240. This gives:
d,  =   1,000/ (4 x 240 x 0.43) = 2.42                          223



INDIA
ANIHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION AND CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
Income Distribution Weight as a Function of Net Farm Income per Hectare
Income Distribution Weight
dr   
1.2
1.0
o.8
o.6
0.14
0.2
1.0      2.0       3 .0     4. 0      5.0       6!. 0     7.0      8 .10   Net Farm Income
(Rs 1,000 per ha)



ANNEX li4
Appendix4
Page 1
Mathematical Formulation of the AGINT Model
Indices:
i    irrigation plan (cropping pattern)       i = 1 .... 98
j    subarea                  ;                  = 1 .....,10
s    soil type                                s = r or b (red or black)
t   month                                     t = 1,  .000 ,12
Variables:
111,s   proportion of cropland, subarea j, soil type s, under
irrigation plan i
aj s   acreage in subarea j, soil type s
ei     net objective function coefficient, per hectar, cropping
pattern i. (Some measure of annualized economic and social
benefits less annualized project costs)
ql9t  monthly net irrigation requirements, cropping pattern i,
month t
r      canal capacity
R      annual water release (from dam to the canal) constraint
lj     conveyance and operational losses, subarea j (per unit of
water released at dam)
eis    field irrigation efficiency, soil type s, irrigation plan i
5
Equations:
,             j i,s  X  aj,s  x  ci        (maximand)
s   j   i       's                                               2
.225



Aniendix 4
Page 2
ZI  1  iIx4    x  a          x (qit/e)   (1   lj)cr  (canalit)
is  x  aj s x (qi9t/ e4) / (1 - ltj)c  R (annual water
t   s   j                                                 release con-
straint)
~i  X' ,s   1for all J, s             (project combination constraints)
ObJective Functions
1. Efficiency Prices
c1 = NEV'
2. Income distribution weights
Ci =ANEVi   SuF x         C + SCF x df x A  NFVi + SCFx
(LARi + '          x AGFVi) xW  x (d  - d)
ef + en
Notations:
L NEVi  =    Incremental net economic value (at border prices) of providing
irrigation plan i
, GFVi  =    Incremental gross financial value of agricultural output
AnMVi  =    Incremental net financial value of agricultural production
SCF        Standard conversion factor
ALARi  =    Incremental farm employment
>, =    Number of mandays per rupee of agricultural production
df         Distribution   weight for farmers getting water under irrigation
plan i
di         Distribution   weight for laborers
de         Distribution weight for employers,                                   226



ANNEX 14
Append-iiX 1
Page 3
ef  =  Wage elasticity of demand for labor - farm sector
en  =  Wage elasticity of demand for labor - non-farm sector
w   =   Wage range
.227






so' (                     TO  NAGFVr d S > EOO ! aT / 2 s4/EVE \  887 dRD 11874
INDIA               8a8)PTAPP'
ANDHRA PRADESH                                                          ttC-
IRRIGATION & CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT                        At4-o  VSH '  MO  H T R A,
SUB-PROJECT AREAS
2 Fra.ctr Ares-
Cormond Area Deaalap-errS'
Nor ooal HFghwoss e yen: <_  M  A  B  L\ 1t D                        < .,$     ,        \_          ,  A    
5ftat High-ays                                                                                                g .
M  A  D  h          Y  A       CJ
51.1e Bo.-d.-,eE      
0 itetT.-n                             ombd ZCAPD/hwgPR  A  D  E  S  Hc
'Dlh., T-     I   ON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  O
-CRvr                     C %WF                CR-268-N  t% l\   G4    ;) R-A                          )
i      t l  goA K I
-TOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/
i1o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U-                                       U  --- - 
C, <*                                                                               abok, retorra a, .r;    5r e --  r  f OAN
W ~   ~~~~~~~~~~            Zr                  TO^  'C              80         hHdade,rarra     T   ,      aR5V. t X^'2      '    - .~s       n7urnle
H  LI'  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   aDO  ~ ~ ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~  ~ ~ 8~C     






88R1 11875
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION & CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
NAGARJUNASAGAR. .Aa r "' '   i4
RIGHT AND LEFT CANALS
i f S t t < A BEdd (b.g-  R      w_-
j;<t  I/J   <m  W   z  i0-  I  E        )   -
. ' ' -+ 1 ,'',, ~~~~~~~~~~~~\                   5J   .AL '              ~        8 .       88   88 ND
><,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,_<_XF'' d r ;;'-. 1 






IBRDO 12036
INDIA                       /Karm-
ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIGATION & CAD COMPOSITE PROJECT
N S P ROADS         --                                                R&B D 
1l'D.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- gk .  R,  & 1 ..d
,j,~~~~ G)S H T                                       j  
1) A
.= 1    arithedU 1 C  /    V/ y    <    <Af   -v<1  ; [; D y SSf~~N



