CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1251 T-IN
ANDHRA PRADESH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area
Development Composite Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
Dated June 10, 1976


﻿ANDHRA PRADESH PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH (hereinafter called Andhra Pradesh).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty-
five million dollars ($145,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Andhra
Pradesh agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Andhra Pradesh, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall carry out or cause to
be carried out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural, engi-
neering and health practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph
(a) above, Andhra Pradesh shall provide in its annual budgets
funds sufficient to enable the Project to be carried out in ac-
cordance with an implementation schedule satisfactory to the
Bank.
(c) Andhra Pradesh shall through ARDC carry out or cause
to be carried out Part C of the Project.
Section 2.02. Andhra Pradesh, in order to reduce its contri-
bution to the engineering costs of the command area development
works in the Project Area, shall levy and collect from farmers for
whom such works are executed a surcharge on the cost of the com-
mand area development civil works in an amount satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 2.03. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall make available from
the flow of the Krishna River at the dam site additional water


﻿over and above the 264 thousand million cubic feet allocated
to NSP as shall be required to irrigate NSP areas in accordance
with cropping patterns agreed between Andhra Pradesh and the
Bank.
(b) Andhra Pradesh shall coordinate the reservoir operation
programs for the hydro-electric power stations under construction
at the Nagarjunasagar and Srisailam dams with the irrigation needs
of NSP.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The principal lending terms and conditions re-
lating to the Project shall be as set out in Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement, said Schedule being subject to amendment by agree-
ment between the Borrower, ARDC and the Bank.
Section 2.06. (a) Andhra Pradesh undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, any imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by Andhra Pradesh to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds


﻿-5-
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used ex-
clusively for the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) Except as the Bank may othervise agree,
Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the Bank promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract docu-
ments and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Andhra Pradesh: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project, and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such in-
formation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.08. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of the Project in Andhra Pradesh, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and other matters relating to the pur-
pose of the Loan.


﻿-6-
(b) Andhra Pradesh shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project in Andhra Pradesh, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Andhra Pradesh of
its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-7 -
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Andhra Pradesh shall maintain, and cause the
departments and agencies in Andhra Pradesh concerned with the
Project (hereinafter called the concerned departments) to maintain,
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices their respective operations
and financial conditions.
Section 3.02. Andhra Pradesh shall in respect of the Project:
(i) have its own accounts and financial statements for the Project
(statements of income and expenses and related statements) and
those of the concerned departments, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Accountant General of Andhra Pradesh; (ii) furnish, and
cause the concerned departments to furnish, to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their respective
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish,
and cause the concerned departments to furnish, to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of Andhra Pradesh and the audits thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Andhra Pradesh shall at all times cause the
facilities, plant, equipment and machinery required for the Proj-


﻿- a -                                        I
ect to be operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accordance
with appropriate engineering and management practices.
Section 3.04. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall provide in its annual
budget funds sufficient for the proper maintenance of NSP irriga-
tion and drainage infrastructure works and operational requirements.
(b) Andhra Pradesh shall take adequate measures to operate
and maintain all irrigation and drainage works in the pipe command.
Section 3.05. Andhra Pradesh shall maintain and repair, or
cause to be maintained and repaired, all roads included in the
Project, in accordance with sound engineering practices.
Section 3.06. Andhra Pradesh shall levy and collect from farmers
in the Project Area not less than all presently authorized water
charges for a period of 30 years and all presently authorized bet-
terment levies.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Andhra Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify Andhra Pradesh of this
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial cancella-
tion or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Andhra Pradesh:
Secretary
Irrigation and Pover
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Byderabad 500022
India
Cable address:
IRRIGPOWER
Hyderabad
Andhra Pradesh


﻿8 - 11 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh may be taken or executed by
the Secretary, Irrigation and Power, Government of Andhra Pradesh,
or such other person or persons as Andhra Pradesh shall designate
in writing.
Section 5.03. Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the Bank suf-
ficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of Andhra
Pradesh, take any action or execute any documents required or per-
mitted to be taken or executed by Andhra Pradesh pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
By /s/ T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Civil works on the NSP Main Canals (irrespective of estimated
cost) and vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more shall be procured under contracts to be awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Bidders for civil works for the NSP Main Canals shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guide-
lines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Except as provided in Part E below, all civil works (other
than works on the NSP Main Canals) and vehicles and equipment esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 shall be pro-
cured under contracts to be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding after local advertising and in accordance with local pro-
curement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their


﻿- 114 -4
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to Andhra Pradesh of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India which under Part A.1 of this
Schedule are to be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.


﻿- 15 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods of-
fered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further com-
parison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid;
or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.


﻿- 16 -
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works to be awarded
under Part A.1 of this Schedule on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, Andhra Pradesh may grant a margin of preference
of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification ap-
plying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the information for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in
the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such pre-
ference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by Andhra
Pradesh, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.


﻿- 17-
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works requiring the use of heavy machinery, other than
works on the NSP Main Canals, may be executed by force account.
F.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. Andhra Pradesh shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of pre-
qualified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic prefer-
ence under Part D.1 above and of the reasons for the exclusion of
any applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall
be furnished by Andhra Pradesh to the Bank for its comments before
the applicants are notified, and Andhra Pradesh shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:


﻿- 18 -
(a) Before bids are invited, Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Andhra
Pradesh shall, before a final decision on the award is made, in-
form the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Andhra Pradesh and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-19 -
3.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of less than $100,000, Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the
Bank, prowptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform Andhra Pradesh and state the reasons for
such determination.


