Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2552-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
May 16, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is pegged to the Pound Sterling and the rate
has been refixed on occasion, most recently at 32.00 on April 16, 1979.
Since, in addition, the Pound floats relative to the US Dollar, the
Taka/US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been
used throughout this report, except where otherwise stated.
US$l               Tk 15.0
Tk 1          =   US$0.067
Tk 1 million  =   US$66,667
MEASURES
1 crore         =   10 million
1 acre          =   0.405 hectare
1 mile               1.609 kilometers
1 square mile   =   259 hectares
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
BPDU     -   Building Planning and Design Unit
CIDA     -   Canadian International Development Agency
FPA      -   Family Planning Assistant
FWA      -   Family Welfare Assistant
FWC      -   Family Welfare Center
FWV      -   Family Welfare Visitor
FWW      -   Family Welfare Worker
GOB      -   Government of Bangladesh
IEM      -   Information, Education and Motivation
IRDP     -   Integrated Rural Development Program
KfW      -   Kreditstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MCh/FP   -   Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning
MIB      -   Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
MOHPC    -   Ministry of health and Population Control
NIPORT   -   National Institute of Population Research and Training
NORAD    -   Norwegian Agency for International Development
PCFPD    -   Population Control and Family Planning Division
PPO      -   Population Program Officer
SIDA     -   Swedish International Development Agency
ThC      -   Thana Health Complex
UNFPA    -   United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF   -   United Nations Children's Fund
USAID    -   United States Agency for International Development
WHO      -   World Health Organization



BANGLADESH              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:             US$32 Million Equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Purpose:            The project, forming part of the Government's Seven
Year Population Control and Family Planning Program
(1978/79 - 1984/85), is designed to help reduce fertility
and mortality by strengthening the Government's population
control/family planning and health programs respectively.
Its main objectives are fourfold: (a) to expand and
strengthen the primary health care and family planning
service delivery system; (b) to expand, and to improve
the quality of training for health and family planning
field staff; (c) to continue and expand, on a limited
basis, selected information, education and motivation
activities initiated under the first project; and
(d) to improve the program's management, monitoring and
evaluation, and research capacity. In order to minimize
the risks of delay in project implementation and to
strengthen the population control/family planning program,
the Government is taking special measures designed to
decentralize the program's management and organization,
to streamline its administrative, financial and recruit-
ment procedures and to strengthen the effectiveness of
the program's field organization and field workers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated           US$110 million of which US$36.9 million is the estimated
Project Costs:     foreign component and US$73.1 million is in local currency.
Cost estimates by expenditure categories are summarized
below:
US$ million
Local Foreign Total
Civil Works
Land                             1.5      -        1.5
Construction                    29.0    13.8    42.8
Furniture and Equipment          2.5      4.3     6.8
Fees                             1.5      0.6     2.1
Sub-Total                   34.4    18.7    53.1
Other Components:
Vehicles                         3.2      3.3     6.5
Special Equipment                1.7      1.6     3.3
Advisory Assistance              0.1      1.4      1.5
Fellowships                       -       0.7     0.7
Salaries                        12.4      -      12.4
Operating Costs, including
drugs, films, training
materials and stipends,
fuel, maintenance costs        6.7     5.3    12.0
Sub-Total                   24.1    12.3    36.4
Private Sector/Innovative
Activities                     2.0      -       2.0
Contingencies                   12.6      5.9    18.5
Total Project Cost          73.1    36.9   110.0



- iii -
Proposed
Financing Plan:                              US$ Million equivalent
IDA                            32.0
Canada (CIDA)                   5.0
Germany (KfW)                 l.2
Netherlands                     8.0
Norway (NORAD)                 20.0
Sweden (SIDA)                   8.0
91.2
Australia and
United Kingdom 1/             8.0
GOB                            10.8
Total      110.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                           FY80   FY8l   FY82   FY83   FY84
Annual                  5.8   10.6    8.1    7.2    0.3
Cumulative              5.8   16.4   24.5   32.7   32.0
Appraisal Report:  Bangladesh - Staff Appraisal of a Second Population
and Family health Project, Report No. 2323-BD.
I/   Australia and the United Kingdom are considering contributions in the
total amount indicated.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO ThE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$32
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a second population and
family health project. The proposed project would also be financed by grants
requested from the Government of Australia, the Canadian International Devel-
opment Agency (CIDA), the Federal Republic of Germany's Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW), the Government of the Netherlands, the Norwegian Agency
for International Development (NORAD), the Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA) and the United Kingdom's Ministry of Overseas Development
amounting in total to the equivalent of $67.2 million.
PART I - ThE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. The most
recent economic mission visited the country in June 1978 and its report
entitled "Bangladesh: Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No.
2245-BD of December 15, 1978) was circulated on December 20, 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, while much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy were complicated by the
necessities to fashion a national government out of a provincial administra-
tion, to establish development institutions serving agriculture, industry,
trade and banking, and to reorient agriculture and industry after the loss
of the West Pakistan market.
4.        The first years of independence were difficult.  Bad harvests in
1972-73 were followed by damaging floods in 1974. International terms of
trade worsened considerably as prices of foodgrains, petroleum, fertilizer
and cement rose sharply while jute, the predominant export, stagnated. In-
flation, falling real wages, labor unrest and political instability added
to the troubles.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project
(Report No. P-2490-BD), dated March 15, 1979.



-2-
5.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with conditions of
greater political stability, have removed the crisis atmosphere affecting
economic policy decisions in the early years of independence when relief and
rehabilitation and then the achievement of economic stabilization were un-
avoidably the paramount concern of Bangladesh's policy makers. The present
time may therefore be characterized as a period of consolidation of the
country's economic recovery from the shocks of the early 1970s. It is also
a period which offers the policy makers an opportunity to focus anew on the
longer-term needs of development. In recognition of its need for a fund-
amental reorientation of policies, the Government wisely chose to put off a
new Five Year Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79 and 80)
calls for bangladesh to clear the decks for future action (partly through a
screening of the 1400 projects on the present project list to weed out un-
economic projects) and to study and consider the development strategy and
policies to be incorporated in the next Five Year Plan beginning in July 1980.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
6.        On the political front, the most notable recent development has
been the parliamentary election held in February 1979. For the past several
years, Bangladesh has been governed under martial law and without a parliament.
In the recent election, some 29 political parties and groups contested for
the 300 seats in the newly reconstituted national asembly. Roughly two-thirds
of the seats were won by the Nationalist Party headed by President Ziaur
Rahman, who was previously confirmed as President in elections held in June
1978. The new assembly will have substantial powers, including control over
the country's finances. Martial law was lifted following the convening of the
new Parliament on April 2, 1979. It remains to be seen what specific impact
these political developments will have upon Bangladesh's economic policies and
prospects. One area, for example, in which the present government is antici-
pating a salutary effect is in the investment climate; it is hoped that both
domestic and foreign investors will now be more inclined to assume a more
active role than in the past. It is also anticipated that the Government will
soon be able both to take major decisions on important policy issues and to
implement programs that have been pending the outcome of the recent election.
7.        FY78 was a relatively good one for the economy.  Mostly as the
result of a large grain crop, which recovered from the substantial decline in
the previous year, and a O1  increase in industrial output, GDP grew by 7.8%
in real terms after only a 1.7% rise in FY77. For the third year in a row,
Bangladesh was spared major droughts, floods or cyclones. Foodgrain output
reached a record level of 13.3 million tons. The favorable results in agri-
culture are explained not only by good weather, but also by constructive
Government actions resulting in sharply increased supplies of fertilizer,
other agricultural inputs and credit, and a larger and more efficient pro-
curenient effort at prices attractive to farmers. Results for wheat have been
particularly encouraging. Jute output also increased substantially in FY78,
partly due to the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (lJCS) which, in only a
few years' time, has risen to cover 500,000 acres and is expected to cover
one million acres in the current year. however, raw jute prices remained high



- 3 -
due to increased demand and the depletion of inventories in prior years.
These high raw jute prices and an increase in jute workers' salaries resulted
in the jute mills once more suffering large financial losses.
8.        A strong upturn in industrial output occurred because of a revival
in consumer demand, an improvement in investment, and more liberal avail-
ability of imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry was
stimulated by increased demand for jute goods and cotton textiles, and by
an intensification of construction activity.
9.        It is too early for an accurate assessment of the economy's overall
performance in FY79. Present indications are that foodgrain output has been
below last year's levels, mainly due to adverse weather. A low level of
government foodgrain procurement combined with food import arrivals below
projected amounts and high offtake rates have led to the possibility that
food stocks could fall to critically low levels in the coming months. Reme-
dial actions are now underway to accelerate foodgrain import deliveries.
Investments in the public and private sector -- particularly in manufacturing
-- have shown some growth momentum and the construction sector appears to be
booming. Whether the overall GDP growth rate for the year will still be ahead
of population growth is uncertain.
10.       Recent fiscal and monetary developments present a mixed picture.
Last year's acceleration in economic growth and imports engendered rapid
growth in government revenues, which rose by about 25% in FY78. Current
expenditure meanwhile rose at about the same rate, reflecting partly a sub-
stantial upward adjustment in the very low salaries of government personnel.
The net result was only a small increase in the current surplus. At the same
time, development expenditures also rose rapidly. In spite of increased aid
disbursements, deficit financing amounted to Tk 1.1 billion, about 9% of cur-
rent revenue. Inflation again became a problem, and this is a worrisome
aspect of current developments in Bangladesh. Overall liquidity continued
to rise during FY78 and began to have its effect on the price level. The
cost of living increased by some 15% in FY78 as compared to 1% in FY77.
Seeking to keep inflation under control, the Government drew up a balanced
budget for FY79. But in spite of continued growth in current revenue and
large aid disbursements, there will still be a substantial deficit. Reasons
for this include an apparent underestimation of the cost of the fertilizer
subsidy, the still heavy weight of the food subsidy, and the dampening effect
of wage increases on revenue transfers by the public corporations. Expan-
sionary factors include the stepped-up grain procurement program, expanding
agricultural credit, and increasing financial needs of the private industrial
sector. It will be hard to contain the combined effect of these potentially
inflationary factors during the current year. Monetary and credit restraint,
and most importantly, increased efforts in domestic resource mobilization will
be required in order to create the conditions for balanced future growth.
11.       The most significant development in the FY78 balance of payments
was a 56% increase in import payments after a low import level in FY77.
Almost one fifth of this increase consisted of an increase in grain imports
needed to bring food stocks to a safe level; the remainder provided much of



-4-
the wherewithal for accelerated GDP growth: fertilizer, cement, spare parts,
industrial raw materials and capital goods. There was also a sizeable
increase in consumer goods imports.
12.       Although export earnings rose in FY78 by 8%, the surge in imports
resulted in a more-than-doubling of the trade deficit--from $405 million in
FY77 to $852 million in FY78. (It should be noted, however, that this was
less than the FY75 and FY76 deficits which averaged $950 million.) The in-
creased export earnings in FY78 represented a continuation of a trend that
began with the 1975 devaluation. The main determinant of last year's improve-
ment was a 16% increase in export prices, especially of traditional exports
such as jute and tea. Although raw jute exports declined due to supply
shortages, jute goods exports were buoyant, mainly due to fiber shortages in
international markets, some substitution of jute for synthetics, and govern-
ment incentive policies, including special export bonus subsidies. Jute and
jute product exports still account for about 70% of total Bangladeshi exports.
The growth of minor and non-traditional exports in FY78 was modest as com-
pared with the previous year.
13.       An increasingly significant development in recent years has been
the upward trend in workers' remittances, mostly from migrants to the Middle
East.  These remittances amounted to an estimated $83 million in FY78 and
are projected to reach $107 million this year.  An offsetting effect, however,
has been the loss of trained Bangladeshis. This had led both to higher costs
for skills in short supply and to delays in implementing certain projects.
(An analysis of this labor migration and its costs and benefits is currently
underway; this study is being financed under the Bank's external research
program.)
14.       The balance of payments for the current year, FY79, is likely to
be marked by a slower growth in imports. The trade deficit is nevertheless
likely to be larger than last year's, partly because of an expected 5%
deterioration in the terms of trade after an improvement of 22% in FY78.
With development expenditures projected to continue to rise, both the Bank
and Government anticipate an FY79 current account deficit slightly over $1
billion. In view of the settlement of certain short-term liabilities and
amortization payments on medium- and long-term debt, the total gap to be
covered by foreign aid disbursements is estimated at almost $1,100 million.
Structural Conditions and Development Issues
15.       Notwithstanding recent gains, especially in foodgrain output and
per capita GDP growth, the salient conditions of Bangladesh are still mass
poverty, a unique environment prone to natural disasters, and dependence on
aid not only for investment financing but also for food and other recurrent
inputs. Life expectancy is short, child mortality is high, and human fertil-
ity remains largely unchecked. A large part of the adult population is
illiterate, ill-fed, ill-housed and underemployed. Although the economy has
largely recovered from the shocks suffered in the early 1970s, in a number
of areas it has yet to reach the FY70 levels. In FY78 per capita income



-5-
(691), domestic savings (3% of GDP), per capita rice production (notwith-
standing last year's record crop) and average nutrition levels remained
depressed below their pre-independence levels. The investment ratio (13%
of GDP in FY78) was restored to about the FY69 rate after some years of
depression to considerably lower levels. The country remains critically
dependent upon foreign aid, which covers some 75-80% of public investment.
16.       Bangladesh has not been self-sufficient in food for over two decades.
In spite of foodgrain imports averaging 1.8 million tons annually in recent
years (1.6 million tons in FY78), nutritional levels are believed to be in-
adequate for half the population. Farm holdings are small and fragmented.
The density of population on the land is already extremely high, and land-
lessness is on the increase; almost half the rural population (comprising
nearly 90% of Bangladesh's 85 million people) is landless or virtually land-
less. Population growth is continuing at a rapid pace--about 2.7% annually.
The country's resources are essentially its land, water, and people. Other
natural resoures, excepting some natural gas deposits, are meager. The
infrastructure remains inadequate, and the lack of managerial and adminis-
trative skills has hindered the country's ability both to plan and to imple-
ment its policies and projects effectively.
17.       Another constraint on development is the segmented social order
characterizing rural Bangladesh. Agricultural change, which is critical to
overall development, is impeded by a rural power structure and social system
that often works to obstruct collective agricultural interests at the village
level. This system tends to allow development initiatives to be captured
by the better-off, as the national government has only limited control over
local behavior. Consequently, government and donor attempts to impose out-
side organization and direction in the interest of the poorest rural classes
have often been frustrated.
18.       Confronted by these formidable structural conditions and constraints,
the Government is currently using the period of its Two Year Plan (TYP), as
noted above, to rationalize certain policies and to clarify its medium- and
longer-term development strategies. The TYP itself recognizes population
control and rural development as top priorities. A nationwide framework for
family planning services has been established, and experiments have been made
with various types of rural development models. Steps have been taken to
provide incentive prices for foodgrains through appropriate procurement
policies, to reduce the levels of producer and consumer subsidies and to
improve the working of public sector corporations, most notably in the jute
manufacturing sector. Greater scope is being given to the private industrial
sector. And-the Government has established a Project Implementation bureau
as a means to help speed up the slow pace of project implementation. The
beneficial results of these reforms are not always readily apparent, and in
a number of cases will take considerable time to show. The TYP itself is,
of course, unlikely to change the course of development, since its period
is too short and most of the development budget during these two years (83%)
is preempted by ongoing projects. Moreover, the lYP's targets in the funda-
mental areas of emiployment creation and population control are unrealistic.



A further weakness is that the TYP does not clearly indicate which economic
projects are to be weeded out, nor what criteria are to be used to make
decisions about abandoning such projects during the remainder of the TYP
period.
19.       The TYP document lists five important areas where the policy makers
must make critical choices: (i) the respective roles of the public and
private sectors; (ii) the organization of agricultural producers; (iii) the
goals of the national education policy; (iv) the role of subsidies in agri-
cultural prices; and (v) the respective roles of foreign aid and domestic
savings in development financing. While outlining alternative solutions for
these major problem areas, the document does not present a full analysis
of the options. Moreover, it only raises the question of the creation of
non-farm employment for those who can no longer be absorbed by agriculture.
This problem is assuming increasing importance and requires concentrated
Government attention. Other key issues requiring urgent and detailed atten-
tion include pricing policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings,
expansion of export earnings, greater efficiency in project preparation and
implementation, and means to improve public sector management.
20.       Work on both a Perspective Plan (1980-2000) and the Second Five
Year Plan is still in a preliminary stage. Present indications are that the
Government will give emphasis to the following: (i) legal and institutional
changes to bring about a rural orientation and decentralization of planning;
(ii) achievement of food self-sufficiency by 1985; (iii) employment creation
and population control; (iv) drastic reductions in subsidies, and other
means to mobilize domestic resources; and (iv) a major new effort to reduce
illiteracy. It remains to be seen, of course, what specific new modalities
will be devised for achieving these broad objectives. But these are all
central objectives, and much of IDA's own economic and sectoral work program
is currently addressed to the analysis of rural development (including the
dynamics of demographic growth), food production, trade policy and industrial
development prospects, and domestic resource mobilization. Considerable
attention is also being given, particularly by IDA's resident mission, to
finding ways and means to improve aid coordination and project implementation.
21.       It appears to be generally appreciated, therefore, that in the
preparation of a development strategy and plan with realistic short and
medium-term targets, a clear set of priorities and a consistent resource
allocation pattern will need to focus on the following key areas: First,
and central to any program to raise living standards, is the need to check
the rapid growth of population. The main specific task is to increase effec-
tive delivery of family planning services, while continuing to motivate
families to practice birth control. The second key area, because of its
large potential for supplying food requirements and providing a broad dis-
tribution of benefits, is the need to increase agricultural productivity.
IDA is currently collaborating with the Government in the formulation of a
medium-term crop production plan. Farm yields are far below what is environ-
mentally and technologically feasible. The main constraints -- inadequate
incentives, inefficient delivery of inputs, and the slow progress of rural
development programs -- are essentially administrative in nature. The rural



-7-
power and social structure compound the inherent difficulties in mounting
and administering large programs that will reach effectively the many mil-
lions of people that live in Bangladeshi villages. These difficulties must
be tackled with great resolve and singleness of purpose if they are to be
overcome. Third, exports and supporting agricultural and industrial devel-
opment are essential to the country's future economic viability. In this
connection, improved efficiency of the jute industry, expansion of labor-
intensive industries based on local raw materials (e.g. tea, fish, leather,
paper, spices, fruits, vegetables and handicrafts), and the promotion of new
industrial export products are essential elements of a successful export
strategy. The fourth key area is to increase domestic resource mobilization.
While the potential for increased public and private saving beyond the rate
of growth of the economy may be limited, some margin should be possible
through measures to increase taxation, improve tax administration and reduce
thie very large subsidies to public corporations. While these elements of a
development strategy are not the only requirements to improve the economy,
they are among the most important and will themselves place heavy demands on
an understaffed and overburdened development administration. The fifth area,
therefore, is to strengthen the administration and to economize on the demands
placed upon it. Where administrative capacity is limited, administrative
controls in such matters as industrial policy, pricing, food policy and trade
should be minimized to the extent feasible and consistent with social objec-
tives. There remains considerable scope also for administrative economy in
these and other areas and through greater decentralization of authority and
responsibility.
22.       External Capital Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization, Bangladesh will continue to need
substantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the
short run, such support is becoming even more important in view of the fact
that the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. At the
January 1979 Aid Group meeting, the Government projected that aid disburse-
ments, which amounted to $797 million in FY78, should rise to $1.1 billion in
FY79, comprising $250 million of food, $520 million of commodities and $325
million of project aid. It now appears that both food and commodity aid
disbursements will be well below the projected levels. Current estimates
are that commodity aid disbursements will reach only $480 million and food
aid perhaps $190 million which, together with project aid disbursements fore-
cast at $325 million would bring total FY79 disbursements to about $1 billion.
To yield disbursements at the recommended level of $1.2 billion in FY80,
required FY80 commitments are estimated at approximately $1.6 billion. On
the basis of donor pledges and indications given at the January 1979 Aid
Group meetings, and taking into account actual and prospective commitments by
other donors, this target could be realized. It is important to stress that
Bangladesh's capital requirements must be met to a large extent by external
assistance, at least for the time being, if economic growth and execution of
current development plans are not to be slowed for lack of financial resources.
At the same time, the Government must strive to increase exports, to be
prudent in the use of foreign exchange, and to make increased efforts to
increase domestic resource mobilization. Finally, in the context of the
above-noted limitations of Bangladesh's development administration, it should



- 8 -
be recognized that substantial improvements in administration are likely to
take many years. Hence, the Government, IDA and other external assistance
agencies will have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design,
preparation and implementation to these administrative realities. And in all
cases, particular priority should be given to those sectors and those types
of financial and technical assistance where institutional improvements are
most needed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
23.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.  Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation
of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to Pakistan,
before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.6 million (including
US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were made
to Bangladesh. In addition, as of March 31, 1979, 30 new credits, excluding
the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph 24 below,
have been made, totalling US$843.7 million. Of these, US$500 million have
been for seven program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricul-
tural development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunica-
tions, transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th
member of the IFC and IFC's first investment (Highspeed Shipbuilding and
Engineering Co., Ltd.) was approved on May 10, 1979.
24.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bilat-
eral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became indepen-
dent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next ten years, it may
do so by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the
Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before
independence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9
million, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were signed on
February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding external
debt is not expected to rise significantly above the present level of about
24% over the next few years.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of March 31, 1979, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, owing inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval of
contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Govern-
ment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are begin-
ning to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and disbursement
performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain because of



- 9 -
a shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures and
organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues. For
example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to improve
organization and procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies dealing
with agriculture and water resources. Furthermore, the Government has taken
actions including improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants and
increased emphasis on training - which are important not only as steps towards
gradually improving the quality of public administration, but also as evidence
of its awareness of the problem and concern to do something about it. On the
organizational side, the Government is in the process of establishing planning
cells in the main ministries and agencies and in strengthening the Planning
Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance both under specific
projects and under the Technical Assistance Credits (Credit 490-BD, 622-BD
and 872-BD).
26.       Of the 23 new project credits totalling US$343.7 million, 14 credits
totalling US$241.5 million have been directed towards agriculture (including
fisheries) and rural development (excluding subprojects of the Technical
Assistance credits allocated to this sector). Their basic objective is to
support the delivery of inputs, including assured water, through quick yield-
ing projects with low capital intensity. While the pace of implementation
has been disappointing so far, the fundamental need to improve agricultural
productivity means that projects geared to the rural sector should remain the
cornerstone of future IDA lending. However, in the short term, the rate of
planned lending for agriculture will be a function of progress in improving
the currently limited absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies.
At the same time, greater efforts in institution building are being made
through closer supervision and technical assistance where necessary. Some
progress has already been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects.
During the next few months, proposed credits for rural works and low-lift
pumps are expected to be ready for consideration.
27.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the seven program credits
approved to date. For the reasons given in paragraphs 34-39 of my Report
and Recommendation on the Seventh Imports Program Credit (P-2373-BD, dated
November 29, 1978), program lending to Bangladesh will continue to be required
while efforts are made to correct basic structural weaknesses in the economy.
Nevertheless, the share of program lending in total lending on a year-to-year
basis is planned to decline gradually during the next few years. The indus-
trial sector has also benefitted from DFC and small industry projects and a
fertilizer production project.
28.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress
and the second population project recommended in this report provides con-
tinued support for this vital program. Improved education and availability of
trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural and technical training and future operations, while maintaining
a similar basic emphasis, are expected to include assistance for primary and
management education as well.



- 10 -
29.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify and
prepare projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, tele-
communications, and water supply and sewerage are now underway. In this con-
nection, particular emphasis is being placed upon proiects which Provide infra-
structure for the rural sector, which process or provide outlets for its pro-
ducts, or which reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources.
Such projects could make significant contributions towards supporting
Bangladesh development efforts. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign
exchange position, IDA credits should cover all foreign exchange costs.
However, all external lenders are inhibited from achieving the levels of
resource transfers appropriate to Bangladesh's economic circumstances by
difficulties in the preparation and implementation of development projects.
In addition, the Government's capacity to carry out projects is constrained,
inter alia, by a low domestic savings rate. In these circumstances, and in
order to direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as agricultural and rural
development - where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively
low, the financing of local currency expenditures is also justified.
30.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
31.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation and
implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to con-
template higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is the
case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities for
making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the people
of Bangladesh. Although progress is bound to be slow and will require pains-
taking efforts, these efforts are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR
32.       The demographic circumstances of Bangladesh are as familiar as they
are extreme. Crowded into a land area (144,000 sq. kms.) about one-third the
size of California are about 85 million people (1978), over 90% of whom live
in the countryside, giving Bangladesh a population density of 590 per square
kilometer, exceeded by only three small countries. Marriage occurs at a very
young age and is almost universal; total fertility, i.e., the average number
of children born to a woman surviving through her reproductive years, is about
seven; and mortality rates, though they have fallen substantially during the
last thirty years, are still high. Against this background and in a rural
environment where one child in five dies before the age of five, where the



- 11 -
status of women is traditionally linked to the bearing and rearing of children
and where a large family provides the only form of economic security, it is
difficult to persuade couples to accept a small family norm.
Demographic Trends and Prospects
33.       Bangiadesh's population has doubled in the last twenty seven years,
owing mainly to a reduction in the death rate from about 38 per thousand in
1951 to an estimated 19 per thousand in 1978. Various factors have accounted
for this drop, including fewer famine related deaths as government relief
measures became more effective, some improvements in public health, the
introduction of specific treatments for epidemic diseases and the elimination
and/or substantial control of some of these diseases (smallpox, cholera and
malaria). There has been no comparable downward trend in fertility. Current
estimates put the birth rate at 47 per thousand in 1975, although some Govern-
ment estimates suggest a decline to about 44 per thousand in 1978. Migration
has been sporadic but on average has had little impact on population growth.
If fertility and mortality changed little from present levels, Bangladesh's
population would be around 160 million by the year 2,000; if there were dra-
matic declines in both, the country would still have around 130 million people.
In other words, Bangladesh will probably have to support a population at least
60% larger than its present size by the turn of the century and one that may
then, as now, still be increasing by more than 2 million annually. The socio-
economic implications of these data for Bangladesh's development prospects
are obviously extremely serious.
34.       The only hope for supporting these greater numbers lies with rapid
agricultural development through improved water control, high yielding crop
varieties and other components of the new agricultural technology, including
improvements in rural infrastructure through labor intensive means. On the
industrial side, there are opportunities for agro-based and export-oriented
growth, diversifying from the present jute manufacturing base. Fortunately,
natural gas offers a large measure of energy self-sufficiency and already
serves as feedstock for the growing fertilizer industry. However, other
natural resources are lacking. In the circumstances, and assuming no radical
change in present social and economic arrangements, the main thrust of devel-
opment efforts during the next two decades must be on programs to create
employment in the rural areas and to improve access to credit, agricultural
inputs, irrigation and rural electrification. At the same time, a major
concentrated effort to reduce fertility - through measures designed, inter
alia, to reduce mortality especially infant mortality, to improve the level
of education, to. raise the socio-economic status of women and to provide a
full range of family planning services throughout the country - is essential
in order to limit population growth.
Population and Health Policy
35.       Bangladesh first established a demographic goal in its First Five-
Year Plan (1973-78), which projected a population of 189 million by the end
of this century, implying a reduction in its growth rate from 3% to 2.8% by
1978 and the achievement of replacement level fertility in 25-30 years.



- 12 -
Subsequently, the Government concluded that the country's resources would
not be able to sustain a population of this magnitude at acceptable minimum
standards of living. Accordingly, it revised this demographic goal and
adopted its current population policy, approved by the National Population
Council in July 1976 and incorporated in a Seven Year Population Control and
Family Planning Program (1978/79 - 1984/85), which seeks to limit the increase
in population to 120 million by the year 2,000. This more ambitious target
implies inter alia a reduction in fertility to replacement level by 1985, or
a decline in births from over 40 to about 17 per thousand, and an increase
in the proportion of fecund women practicing birth control from about 10% at
present to over 60% in 1985. Such a rapid drop in the birth rate would far
exceed the actual achievements of the four most successful population control
programs - in Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong and China where political, social
and economic conditions are different - and, given the socio-economic envi-
ronment and present administrative realities of Bangladesh, there is little
prospect that it can be attained. In the circumstances, it must be inter-
preted more as desirable evidence of the Government's concern with and
political commitment to the control of population growth than as a rigid
framework for development planning.
36.       The five principal components of the Government's policy, which
together constitute a broad-based multi-sectoral program, may be summarized as
follows: (a) delivery of integrated maternal and child health/family planning
(MCH/FP) services through full-time teams (comprising a female Family Welfare
Visitor, a male Family Planning Assistant and three female Family Welfare
Assistants) in each of the 4,500 unions; (b) mass media activities conducted
by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to increase public awareness
and understanding of the population growth problem; (c) face-to-face motiva-
tion programs through community leaders and groups to create opinion favorable
to the acceptance of family planning; (d) projects and programs in support of
the social and economic emancipation of women; and (e) informational activities
through the field and extension staff of those Government ministries that have
extensive community contacts, (e.g. Agriculture; Education; Labor and Social
Welfare). The Population Control and Family Planning Division (PCFPD) of the
Ministry of Health and Population Control is responsible for coordinating the
activities of the various Government agencies concerned. PCFPD is separate
from the Health Division, although both are under the same Ministry and, for
MCH/FP services, shares the latter's health facilities. Its organization
functions at five levels of government - national, district, sub-division,
thana and union. The National Population Council, chaired by the President,
establishes overall policies and a national Central Coordination Committee,
consisting of the Secretaries of the different government ministries concerned,
coordinates the multi-sectoral program. Similar coordinating committees have
been set up at the district, sub-divisional, thana and union levels.
37.       The correlation between mortality and fertility - i.e., the
behavioral pattern observed particularly in very poor societies where high
death rates induce families to have many children so as to assure themselves
of surviving progeny - implies a link between health and population policies
and specifically between programs to improve health standards and programs
to reduce fertility. In addition, health and population control/family



- 13 -
planning are closely related partly because maternal and child health care
is a primary channel of approach to family planning and partly because
certain family planning procedures, such as sterilization, require medical
support and clinical facilities. In Bangladesh, the main thrust of the Gov-
ernment's health policy, currently being defined with technical assistance
provided by the World Health Organization, is to create a primary health care
infrastructure in the rural areas and, at the same time, to shift the current
emphasis on curative medicine to preventive health care. To this end, the
Government plans to establish 356 Thana Health Complexes (comprising a health
center and a 31-bed hospital, of which 6 beds would be reserved for MCH/family
planning services), one in each rural thana, and 4,500 satellite Family
Welfare Centers, one in each union. These quantitative objectives and the
qualitative shift in emphasis to preventive and primary health care cannot
be met from the existing or planned supply of doctors and nurses who, for
a variety of reasons including, until very recently, the opportunities for
emigration, are not prepared, in sufficient numbers, to work in the public
health service and/or the rural areas. In the circumstances and because this
will be more cost-effective, paramedicals and auxiliaries must be recruited,
trained and made responsible for as much preventive and curative care as
possible. At present, about 12,000 Family Welfare Workers, employed by
the Health Division, are responsible for basic health services in the 4,500
unions and they are supervised by Assistant Health Inspectors, one to every
three Family Welfare Workers. In addition, the first batch of a new paramed-
ical cadre, the Medical Assistant (MA), has just completed a two-year course
and is to be assigned to each union where, operating from the Family Welfare
Center, they will be responsible for primary health care and MCH/family plan-
ning services. When established, the Family Welfare Centers would be staffed
by a Medical Assistant and three Family Welfare Workers under the Health
Division and a Family Welfare Visitor and three Family Welfare Assistants under
the Population Control and Family Planning Division. The union-level Family
Welfare Center would thus become the decentralized unit for both institutional
and outreach services in primary health care and MCH/family planning. At the
thana level, each of the planned 356 rural Thana Health Complexes would be
staffed by four Medical Officers (doctors), including one specifically for
MCH/family planning, and, with supporting staff, would handle a wider range of
cases beyond the competence of paramedical workers at union level and carry
out male and female sterilizations. Thana health complex staff would also
provide technical support and administrative supervision for health and MCH/
family planning services at the union and village level.
Achievements and Constraints
38.       In considering the results of population control and family planning
activities, it is important to note that their impact in terms of a measurable
decline in fertility is a gradual process. This factor is particularly signi-
ficant in Bangladesh at this stage because its population control and family
planning program effectively got under way only three years ago, in 1976, with
the implementation of the first population project (Credit 533-BD). Moreover,
the determinants of fertility are imperfectly understood and subject to vary-
ing influences - e.g. rising income levels, reduced inequalities in income
distribution, growing urbanization, increased literacy (particularly female



- 14 -
literacy), falling child and infant mortality and the spread of female employ-
ment outside the home. Thus, the direct impact of family planning activities
on population growth is difficult to measure. In the circumstances, an
assessment of the progress of Bangladesh's population control and family
planning program to date involves large elements of judgement and consists
of evaluating program performance rather than the attainment or otherwise of
specific demographic targets.
39.       In terms of program inputs, considerable progress has been made.
First, about 12,500 female Family Welfare Assistants have been recruited by
PCFPD and, after a brief initial training, are now in place at the union level.
Second, the multi-sectoral information, education and motivation activities
of the six Ministries involved in the program have been initiated and they
have effectively 'desensitized' the population issue, highlighted population
growth as both a national and an individual family problem and helped generate
demand for family planning services. Particularly noteworthy in this respect
are the various schemes (cooperative societies, mothers' clubs and vocational
training) aimed at raising the socio-economic status of women; their early
results in terms of increased income and family planning acceptance have been
encouraging, although their replicability on a large scale remains to be
tested. Third, the Government has begun to encourage private sector and in-
novative activities and has established an institutional mechanism for their
coordination. In this connection, a large contraceptive marketing project and
a sterilization program, both funded from external sources, together account
for about one-quarter of current family planning service delivery. Fourth,
although no legal or disincentive measures have been adopted, a study of the
fertility impact of existing national laws has been completed. Finally, the
Government has initiated various experimental community participation schemes,
including the 'Swarnivar' (self-reliant) village program, which, according to
a recent study, have begun to have some impact not only on development but
also on acceptance of family planning methods. In brief, after three years,
there is now in place an established population control and family planning
program, a large cadre of full-time field workers, a wide range of informa-
tion, education and motivation activities and a Government fully committed
to the control of population growth.
40.       Considering that three years ago the population control and family
planning program was barely functioning, these achievements are not incon-
siderable. However, the results in terms of service delivery - i.e., the
volume of contraceptive supplies distributed and procedures performed - do
not meet the Government's admittedly ambitious targets. More importantly,
despite a four-fold increase in sterilizations and seven-fold increase in the
distribution of condoms and pills during the period 1974/75-1977/78, they fall
short of the demand for family planning services (estimated at about 25% of
eligible couples), created in part by the efforts described above. Indeed,
most informed observers, including Government officials, agree that the single
most important problem now facing Bangladesh's population control and family
planning program is its inability to satisfy existing demand. Surveys of
several small-scale demonstration projects, most of which combine health and
social components with provision of family planning services, confirm this
conclusion. The reasons for this shortfall are several. First, a significant



- 15 -
organizational constraint has been, and remains, the difficulty experienced
by the Health and PCFPD Divisions of the Ministry of Health and Population
Control in developing a set of mutually satisfactory working relationships
and procedures. This problem, which is not peculiar to Bangladesh, impinges
directly on tle provision of MCH/family planning services by PCFPD, for which
the clinical services and facilities, and specifically the doctors, of the
Health Division are needed. Recognizing this problem, the Secretaries of the
two Divisions agreed on a basic framework for improving cooperation between
the health and population control programs early in 1978, which provided inter
alia for the secondment of Medical Officers (MCH/FP) by the Health Division
to PCFPD to strengthen family planning clinical support at thana level. While
this measure is a step in the right direction - i.e., towards the coordination,
and ultimately the integration of health care and clinical MCH/family planning
facilities and services at the thana level and below - cooperation between the
Health and PCFPD Divisions to date remains unsatisfactory. Second, it has
been observed that a significant proportion of PCFPD's field workers is not
visiting households regularly. Moreover, their activities are confined to the
distribution of pills and, owing to inadequate training, they are unable to
advise on complications arising from their use or to provide MCH services;
technical support and supervision are also weak. Third, PCFPD's management
and administration is too centralized and its field-level supervisors and
administrative staff are themselves poorly trained and inadequately super-
vised. Finally, transport facilities, logistics, and physical infrastructure
remain inadequate: in 1978, only about 165 Thana Health Complexes and 400
Family Welfare Centers were in operation, many without a full complement of
staff and facilities.
41.       Although these problems are to some extent common to all develop-
ment activities in Bangladesh, the critical priority of population and health
requires that special attention be given to their early resolution. As far
as the coordination of health and MCH/family planning service delivery is
concerned, one apparently simple and, in theory, effective solution would be
to integrate the two services; this would eliminate the problem of coordina-
tion and cooperation, make the health system's existing infrastructure and
medical personnel available to the population control program and ensure the
full support of the medical profession. On the other hand, integration,
implying the immediate transfer of MCH/family planning from PCFPD to the
Health Division, would probably disrupt program implementation, at least in
the short term; more importantly, it would be meaningless in practice until
such time as the health system itself is fully operational at union level and,
in particular, until Family Welfare Centers are available, fully staffed and
functioning. Iff the circumstances, the Government has now decided to inte-
grate health and MCH/family planning services in phases and, at the thana
level and below, to link this integration to the establishment of Family
Welfare Centers and Thana Health Complexes throughout the country. During
preparation and appraisal of this project, which supports this objective, the
Government has developed a plan for phased integration in two stages: (i) at
the medical colleges and district and sub-divisional hospitals commencing
July 1, 1979 and at thana level and below commencing July 1, 1983.
42.       Regarding field workers' performance, the Government, with IDA
assistance provided under the first project and included in this second



- 16 -
project, is already taking steps to remedy this serious problem. These
include: remedial and refresher training at nineteen training centers now
being established in each district; provision of transport to improve the
mobility of the field workers' themselves (bicycles) and to strengthen tech-
nical support and administrative supervision by thana-level staff (field
ambulances and motor cycles); and involvement of union and village level
committees and institutions in monitoring and supervision. A plan of action
designed to improve the effectiveness of PCFPD's field workers has been
prepared for implementation during the next twelve months. This plan and
the performance and activities of field workers will be evaluated during the
second half of 1980 and, thereafter, annually and these evaluations will
provide the basis for determining whatever further corrective action may
be necessary. Finally, concerning PCFPD's management and administration,
PCFPD is in process of implementing a number of district and national level
organizational reforms (recommended by a management study conducted under
the first project), designed to decentralize the program and to streamline
certain of its administrative and financial procedures.
Financing
43.       The Government's 1978/79 Annual Development Program (ADP) includes
Tk 441 million for population and Tk 542 million for health, together account-
ing for 6.7% of the total ADP, compared with Tk 330 million and Tk 250 million
respectively, or 6.1% of the total, in 1975/76. To date, all expenditures
on population, capital and recurrent, have been financed out of the Annual
Development Program, of which external aid disbursements in the form of
project-specific assistance for population are expected to account for about
57% in 1978/79, compared with the average of about 32% for the ADP as a whole.
However, the Government recently transferred some recurrent operating expen-
ditures to its revenue budget and, recognizing its responsibility to finance
such expenditures from its own resources, plans to include an increasing
proportion of operating costs in its revenue budget during the next few years.
Meanwhile, although the share of development expenditure currently allocated
to population alone (3%) compares favorably with that, for example, of
Indonesia (0.2%), Thailand (0.04%) and the Philippines (0.2%), the question
arises whether, given the sector's special priority in Bangladesh and the
amount of external aid available, this level is high enough. Clearly, there
is no specific or clear-cut answer to this question, which involves judgements
about overall development priorities, the availability of domestic resources
to complement external aid flows and, perhaps most important, the absorptive
capacity of the sector in terms of implementation. The Government's view,
shared by IDA, is that the current allocation, which is some 33% higher in
absolute amounts than in 1975/76, reflects effective absorptive capacity at
present. The organizational and administrative constraints described above
tend to support this conclusion.
44.       The main external aid agencies involved in population and health
in Bangladesh, apart from IDA and the six bilateral agencies cofinancing the
first population project, are USAID, UNFPA, Netherlands, UNICEF, WHO and
several non-governmental institutions such as the Asia and Ford Foundations,
and the Pathfinder Fund. USAID is the main supplier of contraceptives and



- 17 -
its aid, currently averaging $8-9 million annually, is expected to remain
at about this level during the next few years. UNFPA, which is currently
providing about $10 million through 1980 to finance the operating costs and
technical assistance needs of 21 schemes, has recently pledged $50 million
to the population control and family planning program for the five years,
1979/80-1983/84. UNICEF is the only supplier of drug and diet supplementary
kits for the health system and WHO, the main technical assistance agency in
the health sector, has recently completed a country health programming exer-
cise and is currently defining specific projects for further assistance. The
value of all external aid committed for population control and family planning
during the five years ending June 30, 1978 is estimated at about $75 million,
including the IDA- and co-financed first population project. Coordination
between the main aid agencies concerned, specifically UNFPA and USAID, has
been close and effective and the first and proposed second IDA population
projects were designed taking into account their activities.
IDA Assistance for Population
45.       The main emphasis of the first population project (Credit 533-BD,
signed February 11, 1975 and effective September 25, 1975) was on training
and motivation. Its specific objectives were three-fold: to increase capacity
for training health and family planning manpower required to expand delivery
of family planning services; to increase the number of health and family
planning field workers in the rural areas; and to assist various information,
education and motivation activities aimed at changing social attitudes towards
small family norms. To this end, the IDA credit and the financial assistance
provided by six bilateral agencies (Australia, Canada, Germany, Norway, Sweden
and the United Kingdom) totalling about $40 million equivalent financed one
College of Nursing, eight Family Welfare Visitor Training Schools, eight thana
health complexes, twenty four Family Welfare Centers and four model family
planning clinics. Other components included: training and salary support for
fieldworkers; vehicles, equipment, operating costs and technical assistance
for population education in schools; establishment of education/motivation
pilot schemes to integrate population programs in the development activities
of six different ministries; research and evaluation; and support for private
sector and innovative activities. After initial delays, particularly in
respect of construction and vehicle and equipment procurement, progress is
now satisfactory and about $32 million, or almost 80% of the combined external
financing made available, have been committed. Disbursements have been slow
but, with construction expenditures now accelerating and special measures
to expedite the processing of project expenditures and reimbursement requests
under way, the IDA credit and the bilateral grants are expected to be substan-
tially disbursed by the Closing Date, currently December 31, 1980. In the
circumstances, the timing of the proposed second credit, which focuses mainly
on strengthening service delivery, has been determined mainly by the need
to maintain continuity of commitment authority during the next 6-12 months.
Review and supervision of the first project has been facilitated by the active
participation of the six cofinancing agencies in regular IDA supervision
missions and also by the assignment of a population specialist to the Bank's
Resident Mission in Dacca. Both arrangements are to be continued during the
proposed second project.



- 18 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The project was prepared by the Government, with the assistance of
consultants and of IDA missions in which representatives of the six bilateral
agencies co-financing the first project participated. It was appraised in
April/May 1978; and follow-up missions visited Bangladesh in October/November
1978 and March 1979. A meeting of cofinancing and other interested external
aid agencies was held in Paris on January 25, 1979, immediately following the
1979 regular meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Credit negotiations took
place in Washington in April 1979, and the Government was represented by
a delegation led by Mr. M.K. Anwar, Secretary, Health Division, Ministry of
Health and Population Control.  Attached as Annex III is a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet and, following Annex III, a project map. The Staff
Appraisal Report has been distributed separately.
Project Concept
47.       Given the demand for family planning services already created by
the efforts described in the preceding section, the principal focus of the
project, and two thirds of the funds allocated, are to strengthen primary
health care and family planning service delivery. Its main objectives are
fourfold: (a) to expand and strengthen the primary health care and family
planning service delivery system; (b) to expand, and to improve the quality
of training for health and family planning field staff; (c) to continue and
expand, on a limited basis, selected information, education and motivation
activities initiated under the first project; and (d) to improve the program's
management, monitoring and evaluation, and research capacity. The background
to the project is the Government's Seven Year Population Control and Family
Planning Program (1978/79-1984/85) and its specific components were selected
on the basis of three main criteria: the Government's own investment prior-
ities, the existing and potential implementation capacity of the population
and health programs during the next four years, and the present and planned
financing available from other external aid agencies, principally UNFPA and
USAID. Finally, the project components and the agreed actions to be under-
taken by the Government during implementation take into account the experience,
including the strengths and the weaknesses, of the population control and
family planning program and, specifically, of the first project during the
last three years.
Project Components
48.       The project consists of six separate but inter-related components:
(a) Primary Health Care/Family Planning Service Delivery
($70.1 million): construction, furniture and equipment for
19 Thana Health Complexes ($16.2 million) and 700 Family
Welfare Centers ($33.5 million); salary support for Family
Welfare Assistants (FWAs) on a declining basis (6,500 in the
second year, 5,500 in the third and 4,500 in the fourth)
plus 253 ambulances, 4 vehicle maintenance vans, 19 vehicles



- 19 -
for supervision from the district, 4,000 bicycles and a
pilot two-way radio communication system in three thanas
($16.4 million); and incremental requirements for drug and
diet supplement (DDS) kits for three years ($4 million).
(b)  Training ($22.9 million):  construction, furniture and equip-
ment for 4 Medical Assistants' Training Schools, including
vehicles, fellowships and students' stipends ($9.3 million);
for 19 training centers for field-level para-medical workers,
including technical assistance and salary and operating
expenses ($9.5 million); for additional classrooms and staff
quarters for the existing FWV Training School at Barisal,
including technical assistance, teaching materials and
operating expenses for refresher training of FWVs ($1 mil-
lion); for a training facility at PCFPD headquarters in
Dacca, including vehicles, fellowships and operating expenses
($2.3 million); and operating expenses for four existing model
family planning clinics ($0.8 million).
(c)  Information, Education and Motivation Activities
($11.6 million): vehicles, equipment and incremental operat-
ing costs for the mass media activities of the Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting ($2.4 million); for the training
of community leaders by the IEM unit of PCFPD ($0.8 million);
for the formation of Mothers' Clubs by the Ministry of Labor
& Social Welfare in 40 additional thanas ($3.1 million); for
the establishment of women's cooperatives by IRDP in 40 addi-
tional thanas ($2.4 million); for the extension of women's
vocational training programs under the Ministry of Women's
Affairs in 20 additional thanas ($1.6 million); for the
establishment of a marketing unit in PCFPD to promote and
handle the sales of handicrafts produced by these womens'
activities ($0.6 million); and for the strengthening of the
Health Education Bureau of the Ministry of Health and Popula-
tion Control ($0.7 million).
(d) Research and Evaluation ($2.1 million): equipment, technical
assistance and incremental operating costs for the Service
Statistics Cell of PCFPD ($0.8 million); for the strengthening
of the External Evaluation Unit of the Health and Population
Division of the Planning Commission ($0.9 million); and for
the strengthening of the health information services of the
Health Division ($0.4 million).
(e)  Private Sector and Innovative Activities ($2 million):  support
for private sector and innovative schemes to be identified and
agreed upon in advance by the Government and IDA ($2 million).
(f)  Project Implementation (*1.3 million):  equipment, vehicles,
consultants' services and incremental operating costs for the
principal project implementation units.



- 20 -
Cost Estimates
49.       Total project costs are estimated at $110 million equivalent, in-
cluding about $9.2 million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange compo-
nent is estimated at $36.9 million or about 34% of total project cost. Cost
estimates are based on unit prices at December 1978 levels. The major elements
in the cost estimates are civil works, including land and professional fees
($46.3 million); furniture and equipment ($6.8 million); vehicles, special
equipment, technical assistance and fellowships ($12.0 million); salaries and
operating costs ($24.4 million); and private sector and innovative activities
($2 million), together amounting to a total base project cost of $91.5 million.
Physical contingencies covering unforeseen factors, estimated at 10% of base
cost of civil works ($5.3 million) and price contingencies estimated at 13%
of project costs and physical contingencies ($13.2 million) bring the total
project cost to $110 million.
Financing
50.       The project would be financed by the proposed $32 million credit
and about $67.2 million in grants from seven bilateral agencies, together
approximately equivalent to about 987 of total project costs net of taxes
and duties. Financing for the remaining $10.8 million, including $9.2 mil-
lion for taxes and duties, would be provided by the Government. The six
bilateral agencies cofinancing the first project (Australia, Canada, Germany,
Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom) participated in the preparation and
appraisal of the second project and, at the meeting held in Paris on January 25,
1979, confirmed their agreement in principle to contribute to its financing.
In addition, the Netherlands, which has already earmarked up to about $8
million equivalent of its bilateral project aid to Bangladesh for the four
Medical Assistants' Training Schools included in the project, indicated that
it planned to coordinate this financing and its technical assistance for the
implementation of this component with that of IDA and the six other cofinan-
ciers. Since the Paris meeting, four of the six cofinanciers (Canada,
Germany, Norway and Sweden) have decided on the amounts of their contributions
and on the application of their funds. Including the contribution of the
Netherlands, the external cofinancing so far confirmed totals $59.2 million,
as follows:
US$ Million
Canada (CIDA)                5.0
Germany (KfW)               18.2
Netherlands                  8.0
Norway (NORAD)              20.0
Sweden                       8.0
Total                   59.2
Two cofinanciers of the first project (Australia and the United Kingdom) have
not yet decided the amounts of their contributions. However, on the basis of
indications made at the Paris meeting and recent consultations with IDA, the
contributions currently under consideration are in amounts sufficient to cover
the $8 million equivalent required to complete the cofinancing arrangements.



- 21 -
If their contributions were not sufficient, it is believed that other sources
of external financing could be arranged by the Government to fill this gap.
As under the first project, each of the participating agencies will enter
into bilateral agreements with the Government of Bangladesh and the conclu-
sion of these.arrangements would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit (Section 6.01(d) of DCA). Similarly, as under the first
project, a "Memorandum of Agreement regarding Project Execution, Procurement
and Use of Funds", defining IDA's relationship with these donors, will be
entered into between IDA and the co-financing agencies.
51.       All the bilateral agencies, except SIDA which would make its con-
tribution available directly to the Government, would participate on a
parallel basis and finance specific project components. All aid would be
untied and, except for the contributions by Germany, Netherlands and Sweden,
would be disbursed by IDA on behalf of the agencies concerned; for this
purpose, the Trust Fund established under the first project, consisting of
special accounts in the central banks of the participating countries, would
be continued and these accounts, denominated in the countries' national
currencies, would be replenished periodically. The costs of the Population
Project Officer employed under the first project, shared by IDA and five of
the six cofinanciers, and an assistant would be financed under similar
arrangements under the second project.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       Contracts for civil works items, other than Family Welfare Centers
and training centers for women's vocational training, would be based on bid
packages prepared in consultation with IDA and would be procured under inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA Guidelines, domestic
contractors being accorded a preference of 7.5%. For the women's vocational
training centers costing less than $25,000 each with a total cost of about
US$250,000, local competitive bidding procedures, under which foreign con-
tractors would not be excluded, satisfactory to IDA, would be adopted. In
all cases, contractors would be prequalified. Family Welfare Centers are
numerous (700), small (about $46,000 each) and geographically scattered. In
order to encourage local involvement in their construction and operation and
maintenance, this component of the project, with an estimated total cost of
about $32.2 million, would be carried out by the union-level communities them-
selves, who would procure materials, labor and basic furniture ($0.5 million)
through prudent local shopping. This mode of construction was employed expe-
rimentally for a pilot scheme of 80 Family Welfare Centers during the 1978/79
construction season and its feasibility has been satisfactorily demonstrated.
Details of the implementation procedures proposed, based partly on the expe-
rience of this pilot scheme, are described in para 56 below.
53.       Contracts for equipment, vehicles and furniture (except furniture
for Family Welfare Centers) with an estimated total cost of about $16.1 mil-
lion would be grouped in appropriate bid packages and procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA Guidelines. In
bid evaluation, domestic manufacturers/suppliers would be accorded a margin of



- 22 -
preference of up to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the actual
customs duty, whichever is lower. However, contracts for furniture which
cannot be grouped into packages of $100,000 equivalent or more would be
awarded after local competitive bidding under Government procedures accept-
able to IDA. Similarly, certain specialized items (e.g. films, transparencies
and training materials) with an estimated total value of $3.5 million, which
cannot be grouped into packages suitable for international procurement, would
be procured after local competitive bidding. Drug and diet supplement kits
valued at $4 million are expected to be procured through UNICEF. Finally, all
contracts estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent each may be procured
through international or local shopping on the basis of at least three price
quotations, subject to an overall maximum of $200,000 of such procurement.
54.       Credit proceeds, and the proceeds of those bilateral grants which
IDA is responsible for administering on behalf of other agencies, would be
disbursed on the basis of satisfactory documentation submitted to IDA by the
Project Finance Cell. Disbursements from the IDA credit would be made as
follows: (a) 100% of the cif cost of directly imported construction materials,
equipment and vehicles; (b) 90% of total expenditures on civil works and fur-
niture; (c) 60% of local expenditures on locally procured equipment and 50% of
local expenditures on locally procured vehicles; (d) 100% of total expenditures
on consultants' services, operating costs and support to private sector and
innovative activities. Credit proceeds allocated for the construction of
Family Welfare Centers would be disbursed in three stages linked to physical
progress certified on the basis of architectural consultants' supervision
reports. The bilateral grants which IDA is responsible for administering
would be disbursed at the rate of 100% of the total cost of components allo-
cated to the respective agency. To facilitate payment of local currency
expenditures, the revolving fund established under the first project would be
maintained at a local commercial bank (Section 3.14 of DCA).
Implementation
55.       The institutional arrangements for project implementation would,
with some strengthening, be essentially the same as those set up under the
first project. Thus, PCFPD would remain responsible for overall project
implementation and coordination. The Building, Planning and Design Unit
(BPDU), located in the Health Division of the Ministry of Health and Popula-
tion Control and assisted, as under the first project, by a firm of architec-
tural consultants for planning and design, would supervise the construction
program, except for Family Welfare Centers. The reappointment of the existing
firm (a local and foreign partnership) or the appointment of another suitably
qualified firm satisfactory to IDA and the strengthening of BPDU through the
employment of a full-time director and two executive engineers would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 6.01(a)) of DCA).
A master plan for the construction of all physical facilities included in
the project is currently under preparation and its completion would also be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 6.01(b) of DCA).
For the information, education and motivation components of the project, the
Population Program Offices in the five ministries concerned would be respon-
sible for implementation. The Project Finance Cell in PCFPD would be



- 23 -
responsible for coordinating project expenditures, maintaining project
accounts and submitting requests for reimbursement.
56.       Because of the large number of Family Welfare Centers (FWCs) in-
cluded in the project and the decentralized community-level mode of construc-
tion proposed, PCFPD has set up a separate administrative unit, staffed by
senior administrative officers, which, with the assistance of architectural/
engineering consultants, would be responsible for monitoring their construc-
tion and initial administration. While PCFPD's consultants, to be appointed
as a condition of effectiveness of the credit (Section 6.01(a) of DCA), will certify
physical progress and the technical standards of work at defined stages of
construction, the administrative unit will assist in monitoring such matters
as site selection and acquisition, procurement of materials and labor and the
allocation and release of funds. At the local level, the Circle Officers
(Development) of the thanas concerned, in consultation with local government
officials, would select and acquire sites; thereafter, the Chairmen of the
Union Councils concerned would be responsible, through Union Project Com-
mittees established for this purpose, for procuring materials, contracting
labor and supervising construction on the basis of a simple, standard design.
A building and design manual has already been developed and printed, incor-
porating schedules of the materials, furniture and equipment required, esti-
mated costs and, textually and pictorially, simple building instructions.
Since union-level communities have little or no resources available to finance,
even temporarily, the acquisition of sites or procurement of materials and
labor, 50% of the estimated cost of site acquisition and construction would be
advanced by PCFPD at the outset. Subsequent advances of funds would be made
upon certification by PCFPD's consultant field engineers that construction
had reached pre-determined stages and was of satisfactory quality. An agreed
number of Family Welfare Centers would be constructed each year in accordance
with a master plan now under preparation; the progress and quality of con-
struction would be evaluated annually by PCFPD's architectural/engineering
consultants and the reports of such evaluation would be transmitted to IDA for
review; further construction would not be undertaken unless the progress and
quality were satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.04 of DCA). A timetable for the
acquisition of sites required for carrying out the project has been agreed
(Section 3.13 of DCA) and the acquisition of sufficient sites for the first
year's construction program as set forth in the mnaster plan would be a con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 6.01(c) of DCA).
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.       A timetable for implementation of each project component has been
discussed and agreed with the Government and this would be used by both PCFPD
and IDA as the basis for monitoring the physical progress of the project.
Project evaluation would be undertaken, as under the first project, on the
basis of data gathered by the Service Statistics Unit of PCFPD and through
specific surveys and studies carried out by the External Evaluation Unit of
the Population and Health Division, Planning Commission. In addition, the
Government would form a research and evaluation committee and prepare, in
consultation with IDA by December 31, 1979, a comprehensive plan for evaluat-
ing the population and health programs and each project component (primary



- 24 -
health care, training, family planning service delivery, etc.).  Some of
these activities would be undertaken, where appropriate, by universities
and other qualified institutions (Section 3.10 of DCA).
Project Benefits and Justification
58.       The primary justification of the project lies in its potential to
improve MCH and family planning services in about 270 of the 356 rural thanas.
In these thanas, 8,000 of the program's field workers will be given better
technical support by FWVs who will be given additional improved training and
provided with transport. The FWVs, using the ambulances provided in the
project, will also organize mobile clinics in the villages of these 270 thanas
and will thus bring better MCH/FP services to outlying areas. Additional
drug and diet supplement kits supplied under the project will help in meeting
the requirements of these 270 thanas, and will reduce morbidity and mortality.
In 100 of the 270 thanas, health and family planning services will be improved
further by the establishment of FWCs in each union. About one-fourth of
Bangladesh's 356 rural thanas will thus have access to fully established
health and family planning infrastructure and the decline in morbidity,
mortality and fertility in these areas, to be measured through baseline and
follow-up studies, is expected to be substantial. About 100,000 women will
be served by vocational training, functional literacy and health and family
life education programs to be provided in pilot areas. These programs will
provide earning opportunities for women who have not hitherto been able to
supplement family income. The first project has shown that women taking part
in these programs are highly receptive to MCH/FP instruction imparted through
the programs. The mass media activities will continue to help in creating
awareness of population and health problems and will thus enhance the demand
for health and family planning services.
59.       Assuming improvement in the service delivery system, it is esti-
mated that the program will be able to recruit about four million additional
acceptors by 1983, constituting about 24% of the estimated married women in
that year. About 1.6 million of the additional acceptors would be the direct
result of project inputs. In addition, about 36 million women and children
(or 56% of the total women and children in the country in 1983), will be
reached by health care. Of these, about 18 million women and children will
be served through the project inputs. The project's physical facilities
will continue to serve the population beyond 1983 and will thus result in
greater long-term benefits than specified above.
Project Risk
60.       A project of this size and complexity in a country with Bangladesh's
administrative and financial constraints could not be undertaken without risk.
The main risks are those of delays in implementation and thus of longer-term
delays in achieving the Government's goal of reducing the rate of population
growth. Given the urgency and enormity of Bangladesh's population problem,
on the one hand, and the administrative and financial constraints, on the
other, the proposed project effectively strikes a balance between what is
needed and what can be undertaken with an acceptable degree of risk. Speci-
fically, while the second project starts with an established organizational



- 25 -
structure and program and its individual components are essentially a con-
tinuation of activities initiated under the first, difficulties may arise
if cooperation between the Health Division and PCFPD is not ensured and if
PCFPD does not strengthen its administrative machinery and improve the per-
formance of its fieldworkers and other managerial and supervisory staff.
Furthermore, if the organization of the population program were to be changed
abruptly, additional problems could arise: the MCH/FP program might not get
adequate attention in the Health Division and the reorganization itself could
cause dislocation and disruption through staff transfers. In the circums-
tances, assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) in the event
of any significant changes in the organization of the population program, the
Government would consult with IDA and take into account its comments (Section
3.16 of DCA); (b) that the Government would make modifications in PCFPD's
administrative, financial and recruitment procedures by December 31, 1979 to
strengthen implementation of the population program (Section 3.17 of DCA); and
(c) that, in order to improve the effectiveness of PCFPD's field workers, the
Government would carry out an agreed plan of action by June 30, 1980 and
commencing July 1, 1981 evaluate their activities and performance and take
such corrective actions as may be satifactory to IDA (Section 3.07 of DCA).
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
are: (a) that additional BPDU staff and architectural/engineering consultants
have been appointed (paras 55 and 56); (b) that a master plan, satisfactory
to IDA, for the construction of all physical facilities included in the
project has been completed (para 55); (c) that sufficient sites have been
acquired to construct all physical facilities scheduled for the first year of
the project (para 56); (d) that external cofinancing in the amount of about
$67.2 million has been obtained (para 50); and (e) that the Project Proformas
for the project have been approved.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by   I.P.M. Cargill
May 16, 1979



- 26 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                                 /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. IN.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             144.0                                                      SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      101.1                                  MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE fb        REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    40.0         60.0       90.0            167.4       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(EILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          ..           ..      28.0              65.7        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          53.9         70.8      82.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.8            6.4        9.2             12.8        15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        374.0        492.0      574.0             85.2        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    566.0          730.0     818.0             322.6       254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.3         46.4       46.2             44.0        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                           52.5         51.0      51.1              52.9        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.2          2.6        2.6              2.9         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.7          2.8        2.1 /f           2.2         2.4          2.7
URBAN                                 ..          6.2        7.4              4.2         4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       49.8         50.3       49.5             45.1        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       27.2         22.9       28.1             17.3        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5          3.1         ..              3.2         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        345.6      655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..        4.7             13.7        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              106.2        100.0       93.7             95.6        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     89.0 j       89.0       93.0             91.1        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            42.6 L         *        58.5             49.6        50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.2 L         .         8.0             12.6        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          ..          ..         ..               ..          ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)    38.7           43.3       45.0             43.1        45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..          ..      140.0             99.5       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         45.0       56.0             30.0        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                 ..         13.0       22.0             66.3        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 ..         47.0       61.0             17.2        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PMECRT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          6.0        5.0             15.7        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..       40.0             66.9        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..              2.5         3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           10000.0 /h   7600.0/h 11000.0             8830.8    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   110000.0 /b  72030.0/h 56070.0               8479.3      6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            11000.0 /i   8120.0 /i 5200.0             1624.5      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..               ..       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..               ..      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..          ..         ..                ..       19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..               ,.         5.2
URBAN                                 4.      .          .     . : :                      4.8
RURAL                                                                                     5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..                ..        1.8          2 3
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..         ..                .        25.9         28.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..        3.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..          .                           .7         10.3



- 27 -                                                ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                               /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIHARY:     TOTAL                  47.0        61.0       73.0             59.1        62.9         75.8
FEHALE                26.0         42.0      51.0              38.4       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0        19.0       25.0             19.9        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0      11.0              9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  1.0            1.0        ..              1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..        49.0       50.0             38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                             ..        26.0       24.0             23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21.6           ..      23.0             35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.4        0.4 /1           2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         6.0         *-             14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..               ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..       5.0              6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        ..               ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0       24500.0   26200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.5      17.0             21.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0        86.0       78.0             62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3          3.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.6      34.4             35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  58.7         55.8      55.3             52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                11.4         11.8      12.1             15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4       1.4               1.3        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3 1k        16.7 /1     ..             18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5 /k       42.3/1       ..             42.8        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9 1k         7.9 L      ..              7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9 /k        19.6 L      ..             19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (Us$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      110.0             80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..       90.0             67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..               ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       29.0             39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      61.0             50.3        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      70.0             44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  The 1970-75 growth rate is abnormally law due to the effects of the war of independence and
the mass population movement across the borders during that period.  Presently, the average population
growth rate is estimated at 2.8% per annum;  /R  Av. 1961-65;  /h  Registered, not all practicing in the
country;  /i Govt. establishments only;  /J  1972;  /k  1963-64;  /1  1966-67.
September, 1978



- 28 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                        Page 3
:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the  extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and eacreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
sinple populatioon-eighted geometric means without che exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. ko)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - total nurface area comprising land area and inland waters                            urb-n, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beda
Agr-cIcutral - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used remporarily                    avilable in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or perm-an-tly for crops, pastures,  carket and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitation centers.  Hospitalu are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                               at least one physician.    Establish=ents providing principally oustodial
care are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, include health and sedi-
:Nif  iR _CAPTA (ill)  - GNP per capita eati-atex at current  carket prices,                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
cal-cuclad by sacn  -cuversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which cffer in-patient accommodation and
19t0, 1970, and 1977 dota.                                                                pcovide a liited range of medical facilities
AdmislIons per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
EtiERY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual cosnumpticn of commercial energy                       from hospitals divided by the number of beds
(cual and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
the-ral electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average sine of household (persosn  per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AMD VITAL STATISIICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Torai population  mid-year (cillions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their rain meals.   A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
o -rugo of two end-year estimateb; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             thi household for statistical purposes.   Statistical definitions of h.oxe-
Urhbo  populaticn (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
ciot; different definitions of urban areas may affect co-parability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average non-
ci data anong countries.                                                                  bar of persons per rena in a11, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Pen   q. k.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of tocal urva                                                                           Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
P-- sg._m   agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
onlv                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Pfotu-tioc ago structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yearn), and retired  (65 years and over) a. percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
yur popularion.                                                                        Adjusted enrollment ratios
Poulation growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrolxlent of a11 ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
(960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 yearn but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thcusand) - Annual live birth. per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-yevr poyplation; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent nince sone pupils are below or
l(9%  and fi(o-yeor average ending in 1975 for eost recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crude doath rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed on above; secondary educa-
your population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion  requires at least four years of approvod primary instruction; pro-
and rive-yoar average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vide  general -ocational, or teacher training instrrctio..  for pupils
-rous reproduction rate - Average smber of daughters a woman will bear                       usually of 12 tc 17 years of age; correspcndence courses are generally
ic icr  oro-al spyroduc-tie period if shi  euperiences preentr age-                       excluded.
syocific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocaticoal institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clde technical., industrial, or other programs which operate independently
fmilc planning - acceptors  annual (thouxands) - Annual number of                            or aa departments of secondary institutions.
acceptor_ of birth-contrul devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planing program.                                                                           primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teacher-  in the corre-
Fondly planning - users (percent of earied women) - Percentage of                            sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
dvvioeu to oil married women in sane age group,                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 yeors and ovr.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMITION
Lndon of food production per capita (1970-1i) - Index nunber of per                      Passenier car  (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise =otor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                       seating lens  than eight persons; excludes amhulances, hearsen and =ilitary
Pe                 of  alories (peroent of reguioeets) - Computed from                    vehicles
energy oquivalent of net food supplies available in cuontry per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
por day.  Available nupplies vonprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, acd changes in utock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when regiutration of radio sets wan in
qucanitins used in food procesning, and losses in distribution.   Re-                   effect; data for recent yearn may not be comparable since moot countries
usiroments - were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                abolished Iicenning.
-ol -ctioity and health  -osidering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generd
weights, age and sea  distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; ecludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
0tcr for wants at household level                                                         tries and in year. when regiutration of Ti' sets wan in effect.
3cr cacita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation  (per thousand poPulation) - Shows the average cirtula-
o.pit. net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion  of "daily general interest newspaper", defined  s a periodical publi-
ahorv     Requirmn.nts fur all countries established by USDA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It in considered to
auminimu=  .llowaoce of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four ties a wee.k
of aninal and poise protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein                Cinema annual attendance per oapita per year - Based on the number of tickets
Theso utandards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including adrixsions tc drive-is cineas and mobile
213  ranu of  inal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units
FAC in tc- Third World Food S(ney.
Pot cupita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EIMPLOYMENT
dorirod from aon. als and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thoosands) - Econo=ically active persons, including arced
h   ld oags g 1-) mortality rate (per thous-nd) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but occluding housewives,  tndents, etc.  Defini-
and in ago group 1-4 yearn, to children in thin age group.                                tions in various countries are not conparable.
Female (percent) - Feoale labor force as percentage of total labor force
HEALTh(                                                                                    Axriculture (oorcent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and finhing
Lifeepctacv at birth (pears) - Average number of years of life                              as percentage of total labor force.
cmaining ut birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                    Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, constructicn, manufacturing and
asd I97.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant tolity rate (Per thounand) - Annual deaths of infants under                       Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of ago per thousand live bihts.                                                   'emale labor force us percentages of their r-spectise populations.
Acces no suf water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                       These are  LO's adjusted participation ra te   reflooring axe-sex
Nuhbor of people (total, urhan, and rural) with reasonable access to                       struc-ro    of the populatior. nd log time trend.
safe watcr supply (includes troated s-rface waters or untreated but                    EconomIc dependentv ratio - Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 and oret to
unoontamirated water such as that from protected borehole., springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 y-ru.
and sa-itory wells) an percentagen of their respective populations.
Pu on urban area a publio fountain or standpost located not more                      INtCO2E DISTRIBUTION
,han 200 metors from a houne say he considered as being within rea-                    Percentage of private moose (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonahIe access of that hoxe.        In rural areas reasonable access would                 percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                       of households.
upend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water coeds                                                                           POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
docons  to excreta disposal (porocen  of population) - total, urhan, and                  Estimated abholute povertvy_in i c-n  (USS per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                         Abholote poverny inco=e levei in thor inco=e level below which a minimal
dicunoval as por-cpt-gen cf their cespeoti-e populations.   Excreta                        nutritionaly adequate diet pius eosntial oon-food requirenents is not
diupucal map itolud            I the collactios and disposal, with or without              affordable.
- --ar tnn, of hunan exreoa and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Estimated relative poverty imose level (US$ per cavita) - urban and rural -
bh, us-  of pin privies and similar installatios.                                      Relative poverty moose level in that Income level less than one-third
SepLanon perr ph rician - Population dividod by nu=ber of procticing                    per oapita  personal income of the countrr
ohvsicians qualified frno  a medical school at univeraity level,                       Etimated population below poverty income l-vel (percent) - urban and rural -
Population yen nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
procicing malo- and female graduate nursen, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever ix greater.
Econonic and Social Data Division
Econonic Analysis and Projectionu Depart=ent



-29 -                                                             ANNEX I
Actual                         Estimated          1960-   1965-    1973-            Ac.7
AV. 1967-69  1972,'73  1974/75   1976/77             1977/78           1965    1970      1978            _9769 1974/75 19~77/78
NATiIjIAL ACCOUNTS                                                                                              __       ___
in Constant 1972-1973 prices & Exchange Rates              s~eAg  Annual Growth Razes            As Percent of Gi,LY
lro,si Domestic Product            6,012     5,3       6,514       7,255              7,83             47       3.3       6.1            98.5   101.8   101.1
~,si.s from Terms of Trade (4)        89         -      -117        -148                -88                                               1.5    -1.8    -1.1
Grs   oetJc Incomne          6,101    5,833    6,397          7,10_7           i7745              5.6      2.5      5.8           100.0   100.0   100.0
import (toc]. NFS)                   879       747       703         506                791           20.6      6.8       0.7            14.4    11.0    10.2
Exprt         (ipotcapac ity         598       369       197          243               315            12.3   -14.6       -3.2            9.8      3.1      4.1
Icesoucce Gap                        281       378       506         263                                         4.6                               79       61
Con,sumption Expenditures          5,668    5,817    6,404         6,764              7,521             5.7      3.6      5.2            92.9   100.1    97.1
Investment   ". (jncl. stocks)    714          394       499         660                700            13.3      8.8     12.2            12.9      7.8      9.0
Domestic Savings                     433        16        -6         343                2m2             4.3    10.0       72.0            6.8    -0.1       3.8
National. Savings                    416        32        10         378                279             8.7    20.5      56.3             7.1      0.2      3,6
MERCE1ANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                              As Percent of' Total
Imports
C'apital goods                      .        100       135         227                318                       .      22.9              .      16.6    25.3
-Intermediate goods (acLfuels)    .                 176       386         270                459                       .      21.9              .      30.4    34.1I
Vi`tals and related materials
of which:  Petroleum              .         23       155         141                166              .        .      48.5              .      10.0    12.3
Coa   tiAon od                               428       726        ..227               406                       ..     -2.4              ..     42.8     30.1
otT,,F1a9Se i7hii:rts (ciii)~                727    1,402          865              1,349                              12.2                    100.0   100.0
lbcports
P-~rym- products (ecl1. fuels)      ..       145       119         220                203              .        ..      7.0              .      40.9    40.8
Dlials and related materials
of swhich; Petroleumn
manufactur~ed goods                 .        195       239         240                294..                     .       8.5              .      59.1    59.2
Total March, Exports (fob)         48                   58       _T_                  497                               7.9                    100.0   100.0
Tourism and Border. Trade
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1972-73   100
Export Price Index                  61       100      133          108                137..                     .       6.5
Ismport Price Index                52       100       215          189               180..                      .      12.5
Terms of Trade Index              118       100         62          62                 76             ..       ..       5.6
Exports Volume Index               146      100        80          115                107..                     .       1.5
JAtLUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Aninual Data at 1972-73 Prices and Exchange Pates,              Average Annual Growth Pates          As. Percent of Total
AgriculIture                    3,542    3,403    3,712         4,020              4,318               .       ..       4.8            59         59      57
industry and Mining               420       412       466         582                642              .        ..       9.2              7        7        8
Service                ~~~~~2,050    1,848    2.146     2442               2.645              .        ..       7.4           _34        34       35
Total                           6,012    5,663    6,324         7,044              7,605                                6.1           100       100       100
PUBLI1C FINANCE                                                                                                                            As Percent of  L
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                  317       280       469          563               665              .        ..      34.2           5.3       7.2      8.5
Current Expenditures              35         64        19          64553                              .        ..      16.8           6.1       6.4      7.1
Budgetary Savings                 -48       -84        50           99               112                                             -0.8       0.8      1.4
Other Pablic Sector                                    48.         ....                                .       .
Pus~lic Sector Investment         421       239       24          516                514               .       .       10.3           7.0       3.8      6.6
usl $ million ZLA
CURRENT EXPENDITURNE DETAILS                            Actual                   Estimated      DETAIL OP                            At Av. 1977/78 B and ER
As 17 Total Current Expend.)             1969/70 1972/73 1974/75 1976/477    1977/78          PUBLIC SECTOR                       Two-Year Plan   7. of Total
Education                    ..      ~~~~~ ~~~~~~15.3 5 ~ 1.       13.0        INVESTMENT EPROGPAM                      (1978/79 - 1979/80)
Other Social Services                       .        4.5      3.6      4.2         4,9        Social Sectors                              287        13.2
Agricultuire and                                                                              Agriculture                                 600        27.6
Other Economic Services                   .         5.0    12.5      6.6          7.0       Industry and Mining                         380        17.5
Administration and Defense                  .       70.4    57.1    61.5          61.2        Power                                       314        14.4
Oither                                     .         4,6    12.3    15.3          13.9        Transport and communuicaticnr;              387        17.8
Total Current Expenditures                         100.0   100. 0   100o.0       100.0        Other                                       206         9.5
_____________________________________________________________________ Total Expenditures                          2,174       000.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                  1960-      1965-        1973-              FINANCING
(Calculated f'rom 3-year averaged data)              1965       1970        1976
Average ICON                                           ..-7                   . 8-9                 Puilin, Sector Savings                  557        25.6
ITAsport Elasticity                                    ..       1.29        1.11                   Program aid esun.terp-rt                 838        38.6
Rbrginal Domastic Savings Rate                         .        0.22        0.05                   Foreigs Project Aid                      605        27.8
Marginal National Savings Eatse.                                0.35        0.05                   Othier (incl. dots borrowing)            174         8.0
Total Financing                       2,174       100.0
LABOR PORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Worker (19 72. 73 Pn-ices &  Exo. Pates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                  In Millions          7 of Total          19 61 - 73         In U.S.Dollars       Percent of Aversgo          19 70 - 73
19 60/61    1972/73 1960/61   1972/73  Growth Rate             19 69/70   19 72/73    19 69/70   19 72/73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                         16.1        20.5      85        78          2.0                ..         166         ..76
Industry                             1.0         1.8       5         7          5.0                ..         229         ..105
Service                              1.8         3.9      10        15          6.7                --         484         --         222
Total                               18.9        26,2    100        100          2.8               248         217        100         10-0         -4.9
not applicable         -nil or negligible
not available         -  less tha  half the smallest unit shown
No.te:o Figures are o  fiscal year abasis (JUlY 1-Juga BO).Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile EaDt Pakistan.
/I     Plan targets.



-30-                                                                                -
61A21 0F PAf  S' W                 ASSWrANBS AD 3r
alsutwet  in mlllias of r.S. dol7ars at current prices)
Actu"l                            Ratted         P-Jolt           A-varu   Asel l rth R te
1969/7C      1971/73       1974175       197117      1977/78-        1978/79                    1974 * 1979
SUMKtARY BALANCE OF PAYIDSNTS
bErpots (i-l. NFS)                            515          _369        _1,358           529            564             648                        13.7
~~fl~~552flOlaj~~~~~~)            -639          -747        -1402           -937         -1.427          .1,779                         9.9
Rezoure Rla )-IZ4  -378    -1,044          -428        -e77 -1,111                                     7.4
Interest (net)                I
Direct I-cetn.e.t Income   I
Workers  Remittance            I                             45              7            66             83              93
Bal.-ace c  C-urent llcoun-ts                                                          -362 -7
rivate Direct rIeet4                                                                    229            35              400                       13.6
Offiial Capital   ants                                      482            397
NUbli  PAD L.as
lbublcelneat                                  . -s         297          5327          273            411             695                         5.2
isbursemects                                ..             -           -23           -16            -51             -54                           -
et D-sberc- ts                                  .                                                                   - n44
ocher M61 L.ans-
Disbur5emets =                                ..           ..             .             .
-See vefleen0s
Net Dilba-secets .t.                                         ..             ..
topical Dransacc  fees n.e.i.                   ..         -205            334           -410           16             _33
Change in Oct ieseRves (-R .crease)             ..          -20           -196           -              269            244                                    Anl,l 19 nd retie                     Scilc19717
Gr_ss Reserves (end peried)                                 107            263           293           269         /EE  AND DE2iT                                                         97VICE
Plblie DBabt Out. a Disbursed         228      1,366      1,812       2,065       2,556
rRANT AD 17 . I CoDIITM8N7D
vfeioial N.ramc & Gjrant-like                   *.          514            368           338           452            Inter-st on Public Debt               -         10         21          23          27
Repa.yente on Public Debt             -         25          78         17          51
.bl   WLT T-s                                                                                                        Tet.1 Public Debt Service              -         35         99          42          78
YES                                         68      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~    ~~~~~~~ -  -  -  't/act Debt S-mc  (net) 
Mk                                                         68           150            50            211           Tuta  Debt Service (set)
-r.er Nulcilaneral                           . .          11             87           84             74
Dcvees,seenes                                ..           204           678           200            376        Burden an Eapon  BartinmD  (%)
napplicca                                    ..            55             17             2            11
Financial Inscltataos                        ..             _              _35                        13           Public Debt DervioeeDt                        9.8         22.4        7.9         13.7
Bcnds                                        -.                                         -              -          Tntal Debt Service                    ..        .. 
Public  laces  n.e.i.                        ..        -____               -             -             -          Tllaoireci  Invest. Inc.              ..        ..
TDtal Public M/LT L.a.s                         ..          338            932           341           68c
Ave-g e Term  of Public Debt
Actual Debt  Btnst ading oe June 30  1978                              ITt. as % Price Yer   DO&D                     2.0         1.5         1.4          1.3
9OTEOR-AL D1e-                                      rii b- d 0.Y                   APrceot                              inert. ss 2 Prir Ya  D3&D            *        5.0          5.7        0.9          2.5
T.D                                                      554                        21.7                           IbRD Debt Out. & Disbur-ed
^ther Mul i1a crL                                         64                          2.5                                as % Public Debt DiD               -       4.0         3.0         2.7          2.2
3O nesr meirc                                          1,746                        68.4                                as 2 Public Debt Servi-e            -         -         1.6         7.5         4.4
liD .1 . P-.  111           4.3
~iAc,.aala  Drctiarrians                                  26                          1.0                          IDA Debt Det. & Disbursed
3-nda                                                                                                                  us % Public Debt 30               7.1       18.7        21.0        22.7         21.7
>:-.:l^ rebts r.e.i                                                                                         ' ~ as 7 Public Debt Devie              -       2.3         2.0         7.5         4.9
Natal Public KgLr Debt                                 2,556                       170.0e                                                       ce
Otier M&LT Debta
Thora-tu-v Debt (disb. cnly)
can* applicably                                                        e  staff estiemt  e
cno  available                                                         -  nil cr negligible
act  -anaable  -eparntey                                              --  less than h.isf the
bat i.cluded ic tatal                                                       _1sallesi t-it sheorr
NSvemb/e  1978



- 31 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                     and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank     IDA   disbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                  54.9    329.1        -
339    1972   Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                  25.0       2.7
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.0       1.1
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.0       2.0
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.3        .3
367    1973   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply
(replaces Credit No.
42-PAK of 1963)                        7.0        .1
368    1973   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply and
Sewerage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                 13.2        lb
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.0       4.8
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.0       5.7
409    1973   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance                       4.0        .3
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                               7.5       5.2
424    1973   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                         8.7       1.1
487    1974   Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications                 20.0      13.1
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                       33.0       8.3
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                15.0      11.7
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                        27.0      23.7



- 32 -
ANNEX II
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                     and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                          Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank      IDA   disbursed
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                       22.0      14.9
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training            12.0      10.5
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                     7.5       6.2
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                          16.0      14.6
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                     25.0      19.0
676    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program V                          75.0       2.8
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                          16.0      16.0
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                          21.0      20.1
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research                     10.0       9.9
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                   5.0       4.4
752    1977   Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                         75.0      31.7
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                       21.0      19.6
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                       25.0      25.0
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                     7.0       7.0
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                       6.0       6.0
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control                 19.0      19.0 /a
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                        75.0      68.2
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                   10.0      10.0
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                       6.0       6.0 /a
Total,                                                      54.9  1,023.3    391.0
of which has been repaid                                   0         0.4      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,022.9
Total undisbursed                                            0       391.0    391.0
/a   Not effective.
lb    Balance of $9,224.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by about 1979, about three and a half years behind schedule. Parts A,
F, and G (Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning
System) have been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder
Roads) have been substantially completed except before the remainder of the
road can be constructed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Telecommuni-
cations and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding satisfactorily although
we have had reports that the Project Director did not get as much allocated
in the budget for the cyclone shelters as he requested.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is expected to be completed by late 1979, three years
behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems,
shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment
as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase. While
problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical construc-
tion and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational and major
agricultural development is about to commence.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: September 28, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Nearly 3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality
problems have already been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construc-
tion and engine/pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. Agricultural
development is about to commence on 2400 wells in the winter 1978/1979.
Project audit for 1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
being awaited. Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been
agreed. A request is currently under consideration for an extension of the
closing date to permit the financing of, inter alia, distribution channels
in order to increase the effectiveness of the project. Pending the outcome
of this review, the Closing Date has been initially extended to 9/28/79.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers'
interest is high. Staff morale has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway but are being delayed by shortages of local funds. Machinery
for seed processing has been ordered. Tender documents for the final list
of machinery and equipment are undergoing final revision after IDA comments.
Staff housing is about 80% complete. On the other hand, vacancies still exist
in the staff to supervise contract growers. With fifteen trainees presently
being trained, most of the planned overseas staff training programs are well
underway.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date:  February 24, 1976; Closing Date:  Decem-
ber 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and is expected
to be completed on schedule. The problems delaying procurement of 60 primary
and 2,500 secondary pumps have been resolved and it is expected that some 25
primary pumps will be installed during the current boro season. A target
area of 24,000 acres of irrigation for the present dry season using some
608 secondary pumps is to be attempted.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date:  February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress,
project civil works have again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka.
If adequate additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed
on schedule.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of June 3, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It



- 35 -
ANNEX II
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation the various ministries and agencies
involved; (ii) lack of effective organization ineffective supervision of
the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system (complex
regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project personnel;
and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural credit. In
November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook a compre-
hensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an action
program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government in
December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating com-
mittee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improve coopera-
tion., Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as rural
works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries have, so far,
yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of farm inputs farm equipment.
A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit Agreement to finance
incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of incremental credit for
fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been re-
ceived and are being reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. A consultant for workshop management has
been hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and
machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project
zonal workshops has been completed. Thana irrigation maps are yet to be
reviewed by consultants.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date:  January 6, 1978; Closing  Date:  June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The project is making good progress since it became effective
January 6, 1978. Pre-qualification of contractors for the construction of
training unit at Bogra and Santahar has been advertised while detailed draw-
ings and cost estimates have been submitted and forwarded to IDA for review.
Procurement of essential project vehicles and equipment is progressing
satisfactorily. Suitable salary scales are now approved and DEM has been
requested to proceed immediately with filling of posts for crop production
specialists and district training officers. In the case of Project Imple-
mentation Unit/Sub-Unit (PIU/PISI), gazetted officers have been appointed
in late September 1978; selection of senior staff (Class III and IV) has
been completed but appointment awaits Government's clearance. On agricul-
tural extension, a consultant has been appointed to review unification of
extension services. Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) have already been
relieved of extension duties. The Ministry of Agricultural has also re-
quested the Planning Commission to increase the taka allocation of the
project to Taka 65 million.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress is generally satisfactory. The project organiza-
tion appears to be succeeding in generating enthusiasm among farmers and Jute
Farmers Associations are becoming effective. The value of credit in cash and
kind has increased substantially, and repayments are progressing satisfactorily.
The project technological package is reported to be signficantly increasing per
acre yields.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Effective Date:  September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Effectiveness was delayed by almost three months due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget. However, work on site selection,



- 37 -
ANNEX II
land acquisition, and preparation of tender documents has been proceeding
satisfactorily and physical progress of the project is not expected to be
effected by this delay.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project;  US$6 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1974
Effectiveness was delayed by two months, due to delays in approval
of the project budget. Meanwhile contracts with architects for design of
facilities have been signed, and technical working groups established respon-
sible for drawing up research programs in specific fields.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project; US$6 million of April 3, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks.   Currently the project is about 32 months behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed substan-
tially and the Project is now in the construction phase. The soil compaction
work has been completed and work is progressing on the critical compensatory
foundation works of the Project. Revised estimates indicate that due to the
need for additional site work, the delays and the currency fluctuations, costs
will be substantially higher than lender funds currently available. Arrange-
ments are being discussed among the Government and the various cofinanciers
to raise the additional funds required to complete the Project. The fertilizer
company has terminated the contract of the consultants who had been providing
management assistance, and has hired a new firm to provide assistance during
the construction phase. The company is currently negotiating arrangements for
provision of assistance during the operations phase.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of February 28, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has sub-
mitted 96 subprojects for IDA approval. Of these, 93 have been approved and
three have been held pending clarification by BSB of queries raised during
IDA reviews. As of February 28, 1979 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$5.2 million.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
As of February 28, 1979, disbursements were US$70.0 million.  The
credits Closing Date has been extended by three months to enable GOB process
reimbursement from IDA under Procedure Case I.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of February 28, 1979 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$38.5 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983
Progress has started in. training commercial bank staff, distributing
circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures, and adver-
tising the availability of funds for small industry loans. Staff of the Small
and Cottage Industries Corporation have been assigned to begin preparation of
subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22,; 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress on the Agricultural University component of the project
is about 75% complete but 30 months behind schedule. The academic complex
facilities and staff housing are now virtually completed. About half of
the hostels will be completed in December 1979 and the remainder by June
1980. The auditorium, gympnasium and stadium are scheduled to be completed



- 39 -
ANNEX II
by October 1979, two months before the Closing Date. A number of new pro-
grams intended to improve the practical skills of students and increase
their involvement in research and extension have been introduced. Civil Works
for The Technical Education component, although 30 months behind schedule is
practically complete. Procurement of equipment is only 60% complete because
of the time-consuming procedures of the Supplies Directorate. Efforts to
revise curricula and improve quality of teaching staff are being made.
However, action has yet to be taken to complete the facilities at Joydeppur
intended to be used for the training of technical teachers. (Construction
of this facility is not part of the project).
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is
about 60% on weighted average. Tenders for instructional equipment were
invited in mid-December. Training of teachers for the Agricultural Train-
ing Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of instructors
to the extension staff to benefit from a recent upgrading of positions, which
was not extended to the ATI staff. Little progress has been made on the
recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development of revised
curriculum, or the in-service training of extension staff.
Population
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Some progress has
been made in project implementation. Tenders have been received for all
construction packages except the Family Welfare Visitors' Training School
in Khulna and Faridpur. Scrutiny of bids received for four tenders are
underway. Recruitment of staff training teams is under progress while local
consultants have started working with Project Finance Cell to strengthen
central accounting system. Government is implementing manage-
ment study recommendation for strengthening district level organization. Over
60 out of 90 medical doctors deputed from the Health Division of the Ministry
*         of Health and Family Planning to Population Control and Family Planning
Division(PCFPD) have joined. Deputation of another 100 doctors is expected
shortly. On the other hand, proposals to strengthen the Building, Planning
and Design Unit (BPDU) are still pending with the Health Division.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
There are two major elements of the project which are not yet com-
pleted, these being construction of the new Roads and Highways Directorate
(RHD) headquarters building and paving of the Feni bypass. Progress on the
RHD building is satisfactory, and appropriate steps are being taken to
remedy constructional deficiencies previously noted. Progress on the Feni
bypass paving has improved, and the contractor should complete before the
closing date of the Credit on December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Original Credit
has been substantially completed. The two lighterage tankers provided under
the Supplementary Credit have been operating since January 1978, transfering
crude oil from the mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", to the ERL refinery at
Chittagong. However, Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) has experienced
some problems in maintaining the tankers' cargo pumps and manufacturers'
service engineers are now in Chittagong. IDA has agreed to finance under
the credit additional Technical Assistance to improve tanker operation and
maintenance. There appears to have been a significant improvement in the
oil transfer operating over the past few months.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, contracts with two consulting firms have now been signed, and work on
selection of additional required consultants is underway.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been



- 41 -
ANNEX II
commissioned. The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered
together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be
commissioned by June 1979, completing the project four years behind schedule.
The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
After initial delays, action has been taken on the procurement of
all items except the national trunk automatic exchanges (TAXs) and the inter-
national telephone exchange. Technical specifications prepared by the T&T
Board were found by IDA to be inadequate. At IDA's suggestion, the Board
has now asked UNDP/ITU for the assistance of a consultant to prepare spe-
cifications and bid documents for the TAXs and the international exchange
and assist in tender evaluation and subsequent supervision of their
installation. Delay in procurement of the exchanges is likely to delay
project completion until June 1981, two years behind the original estimate.
Physical progress of other works although behind schedule has begun to
improve. The T&T Board was established in July 1976 but little progress
has been achieved in meeting project institution building goals including
transfer to the Board of responsibility for its accounts (currently main-
tained by Comptroller and Auditor General) and introduction of a commercial
accounting system within the Board. The Rules and Regulations defining the
Boards power have not yet been issued leaving the Board with less autonomy
than the prior Director General of the Telephone and Telegraph Department.
However a new ordinance covering the T&T Board has recently been issued and
preparation of revised rules and regulations for the Board is underway.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Credit funds were almost fully committed. However, failure of the
Government and consultants to reach agreement on the staffing of a planning
assistance project has resulted in the release of about US$1.0 million of
additional funds for commitment.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 million; Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: October 1977-April 1978
(b) Agency which prepared project: Government, with consultants'
assistance
(c) Project first presented to IDA: September/October 1977
(d) First IDA mission to review project: October 1977
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: April 1978
(f) Completion of negotiations: April 27, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: November 1979
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government would undertake construction of Family
Welfare Centers in accordance with a master plan, arrange
for the progress and quality of construction to be eval-
uated annually and not undertake further construction
unless the progress and quality were satisfactory to
IDA (para. 56);
(b) A comprehensive plan of action for evaluating the population
and health program and each component of the project would
be prepared, in consultation with IDA, by December 31, 1979
and carried out thereafter (para 57);
(c) The Government would carry out an agreed plan of action for
improving the performance of field workers (FWAs and FPAs)
by June 30, 1978 and, commencing July 1, 1981, evaluate
their activities and performance in consultation with IDA
and take such corrective actions as may be satisfactory
to IDA (para 60);



- 43 -
ANNEX III
page 2
(d)  The Government would review PCFPD's administrative, financial
and recruitment procedures and, by December 31, 1979, make
appropriate modifications to such procedures (para 60);
(e)  The Government would consult with IDA and take into
account IDA's comments in the event of any significant
change in the population program's district and national
level organization (para 60);
Section IV:    Conditions of Effectiveness
Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  The appointment of additional BPDU staff and the appoint-
ment by BPDU and PCFPD of architectural/engineering con-
sultants for planning and design satisfactory to IDA
(paras. 55-56);
(b)  The completion of a master plan for the construction of
all physical facilities included in the project (para 55);
(c)  The acquisition of sites for all facilities to be con-
structed during the first year of the project (para 56);
(d)  The conclusion of arrangements satisfactory to IDA for
external co-financing in the amount of about $67.2 million
(para 50).






IBRD 14233R
d           T~~RACT             
C  C HI                             i
:4F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                  -
Z                                       ~~
~~~.   o~~~~~F
tt   0 + + < ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-\                                      .0
SE ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~  22j D'-
~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ 
0~~~~~~~10                                                  r       -%T  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 B  2~~~~~~~'0 g Y
a~~~~~~~~~~~~M



