CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 921 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Population and Family Health Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 31, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 921 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 1979, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Borrower has requested the Government of Australia,
the Government of Canada, through the Canadian International
Development Agency, the Government of the Federal Republic of
Germany, through the Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau, the Govern-
ment of the Netherlands, the Kingdom of Norway, through the
Norwegian Agency for International Development, the Kingdom
of Sweden, through the Swedish International Development Agency,
and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
through its Ministry for Overseas Development, to assist in
financing part of the Project in an aggregate amount of about
$67,200,000 equivalent;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have


﻿- 2 -
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BPDU" means the Building Planning and Design Unit
within the MOHPC;
(b) "FPA" means Family Planning Assistant, the title of
employees of the MOHPC responsible for coordination and adminis-
tration of the population program at the union level;
(c) "FWA" means Family Welfare Assistant, the title of
employees of the MOHPC responsible for MCH and family planning
services at the ward level;
(d) "FWC" means Family Welfare Center which will provide
health, MCH and family planning services at the union level and
technical support to FWWs, FWAs and FPAs at the village level;
(e) "FWV" means Family Welfare Visitor, the title of employ-
ees of the MOHPC who provide maternal and child health and family
planning services at thana and union levels;
(f) "FWW" means Family Welfare Worker, the title of
employees of the MOHPC who provide public health services at the
village level;
(g) "First Project" means the project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement (Population Project) dated
March 10, 1975 between the Borrower and the Association, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time;
(h) "Health Division" means the division of MOHPC respon-
sible for the planning and coordination of the Borrower's health
program;
(i) "MCH" means maternal and child health;
(j) "MOHPC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health and
Population Control;
(k) "Other Participants" means the donors (not including the
Association) referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, any other govern-
mental or international institution (other than the Borrower or an
agency of the Borrower) which makes funds available to the
Borrower for purposes of the Project;


﻿-3-
(1) "Population Control and Family Planning Division"
or "PCFPD" means the division of MOHPC responsible for planning
and coordination of the Borrower's MCH and population program;
(m) "Revolving Fund" means the fund, described in Section
3.14 of this Agreement, for financing certain expenditures for
the Pro*ect;
(n) "taka" or "TI" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(o) "THC" means Thana Health Complex which provides curative
and preventive health care, MCH, sterilization and delivery
of other family planning services.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
.proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1989, and ending
March 15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, population planning and public health
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and
advisors whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.03. Without limitation on Section 3.02 of this
Agreement: (a) the Borrower shall strengthen BPDU through the
employment of a full-time director and two executive engineers and
through the employment of architectural/engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associ-
ation; and (b) to assist in the construction of FWCs, the Bor-
rower shall employ, or cause PCFPD to employ, architectural/
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall undertake the construction
of the FWCs in accordance with a master plan, and shall cause


﻿- 5 -
the progress and quality of such construction to be evaluated
annually by the architectural/engineering consultants referred to
in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, and reports of such evalu-
ation to be transmitted to the Association for review; further
construction under the Project shall not be undertaken unless such
progress and quality are satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by July 31, 1981, establish
maternal and child health and family planning units at all 270
THCs then in operation.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower, in consultation with the
Association, shall, by December 31, 1979, undertake a functional
analysis of its health and population programs for determining the
manpower requirements at thana level and below.
(b) The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1980, prepare a
health and population manpower policy, including a national
training program.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, in order to improve the effec-
tiveness of PCFPD's field organization and, in particular, of
the activities of FWAs and FPAs, shall: (a) by June 30, 1980,
carry out an agreed plan of action, including, inter alia, the
measures described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) by Decem-
ber 31, 1980, furnish such information as the Association shall
have reasonably requested that the agreed plan has been carried
out; and (c) thereafter, commencing July 1 each year, evaluate, or
cause to be evaluated the activities and performance of FWAs and
.FPAs in consultation with the Association and furnish to the
Association by October 31 each year the reports of such evalu-
ations and based on the results of such reports, take such cor-
rective actions as may be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1980, review
existing programs of community participation in health and popula-
tion activities, and population activities in village self-reliant
programs and on the basis of such review shall prepare, in consul-
tation with the Association, by September 30, 1980, a detailed
strategy to strengthen such activities.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that Project activi-
ties are coordinated and to that end shall prepare, or cause
to be prepared, by December 31, 1979, an operational manual
for maintaining and operating FWCs.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.10. Without limitation on any of its other obliga-
tions hereunder, the Borrower shall form a research and evaluation
committee and prepare in consultation with the Association, by
December 31, 1979, a comprehensive plan of action for evaluating
the Borrower's population and health program and for evaluating
the Project, including, inter alia, evaluation of each Project
component; and shall thereafter cause such plan to be carried out
in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of t,e Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿- 7 -
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire in accordance
with an agreed schedule all such land and rights in respect of
land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 3.14. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a) maintain a Revolving Fund in a commercial bank to be
used exclusively to make payments in takas for expenses of items
of the Project excluding: (i) salaries; (ii) travel expenses
and per diem for local staff; and (iii) import duties and taxes
for all imported items for the Project;
(b) deposit in the Revolving Fund at least once a month
.an amount sufficient to raise the balance in Lhe Revolving Fund
immediately after such deposit to Tk 1,000,000; and
(c) authorize the Project Finance Officer to make with-
drawals from the Revolving Fund for the purpose of making such
payments.
Section 3.15. The Borrower, in order to strengthen the
coordinated delivery of health care and MCH/family planning
services at thana level and below, shall: (a) implement its plan
for the phased integration of such services and facilities in two
phases, namely (i) at the 8 medical colleges, 20 district and 45
sub-divisional hospitals commencing July 1, 1979; and (ii) at the
thana level and below commencing July 1, 1983, in accordance with
a timetable linked to the progressive establishment of thana
health complexes, including MCH/family planning units and family


﻿-8-
welfare centers; and (b) review the implementation of the above
plan at regular intervals in consultation with the Association.
Section 3.16. (a) The Borrower, in order to strengthen the
implementation of its population program shall establish and
maintain the district and national level organization being set
up by decisions already taken following the management study
recommendations under the First Project.
(b) The Borrower, in the event of any significant changes
in the organization referred to in (a) above, shall consult the
Association and take into account the Association's comments, if
any.
Section 3.17. The Borrower will review PCFPD's administra-
tive, financial and recruitment procedures for direct recruits
to identify the major constraints that impede speedy implemen-
tation of the population program and make appropriate modifica-
tions as are feasible to these procedures by December 31, 1979.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures described in Category (6) of the table in paragraph I
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis ot certificates
of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause MOHPC to: (i) establish a
separate account for the purposes of the Project; (ii) have


﻿- 9 -
such account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of the said accounts for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate
opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures and
records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iv) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all action nec-
essary to maintain the vehicles and equipment for the Project
in good working condition during the useful lives of such vehicles
and equipment.
(b) The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1979, in consul-
tation with the Association, undertake an analysis of its system
for maintenance and use of such vehicles and equipment and shall
thereafter take steps as may be necessary to strengthen such
system.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant, loan or credit made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or


﻿- 10 -
(ii) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that, any event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the staff referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this
Agreement and the consultants referred to in Section 3.03 (a) and
(b) of this Agreement shall have been appointed;
(b) a master plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the
construction of all physical facilities to be included in the
Project shall have been completed;
(c) sufficient sites shall have been acquired to construct
all physical facilities scheduled to be built during the first
year of the Project as set forth in the master plan referred to in
(b) above;
(d) the Borrower shall have made arrangements satisfactory
to the Association to obtain external grants, loans or credits
from Other Participants amounting in the aggregate to not less
than about $67,200,000 equivalent for purposes of carrying out the
Project; and
(e) Project Proformas for carrying out the Project have
been approved by the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. The date December 4, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.03, 3.07, 3.08, 3.15 and 3.16 of this Agreement and the provi-
sions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By Is/ Abidur Rahman
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Robert Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   (a) The table below sets forth the CaLegories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works for about         17,764,000       90%
440 FWCs and about 15
THCs:
(a) directly imported                         100% of foreign
construction                             expenditures
materials
(2) Equipment for about            1,980,000
440 FWCs, about 15 THCs,
FWC administrative unit,
BPDU and Supplies
Directorate:
(a) directly imported                         100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally procured                          60% of local
expenditures
(3) Furniture for about 440          869,000       90%
FWCs, about 15 THCs,
FWC administrative unit,
BPDU and Supplies
Directorate
(4) Vehicles:                      2,715,000
(a) directly imported                         100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  locally procured                         50% of local
expenditures


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Consultants' services            884,000        100%
(6) Operating costs:                  734,000       100%
(a) FWC administrative
unit:
salaries
vehicle maintenance
and fuel
stationaries
(b) BPDU:
salaries
vehicle maintenance
and fuel
(c) Population cell of
Public Works Department:
salaries
(d)  Supplies Directorate:
salaries
office supplies
(e) Project finance cell:
salaries
(7) Support to private             1,459,000        100%
sector and innovative
activities
(8) Unallocated                    5,595,000
TOTAL         32,000,000


﻿- 15 -
(b) Items to be financed by grants, credits or loans from
Other Participants will not be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) pay-
ments for expenditures under Category (7) above in respect of
any population subproject related to innovative activities in the
public sector or any population subproject in the private sector
unless: (i) the Association shall have approved such subproject;
and (ii) the purpose and amount of the withdrawal requested
.accords with the terms of the proposal in respect of such sub-
project approved by the Association, as such terms may be amended
from time to time.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then


﻿- 16 -
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A.   Health Care, MCH and Family Planning Service Delivery
1.   Strengthening delivery ,- health care, MCH and family
planning services at the village level by, inter alia, providing
salary support for FWAs of PCFPD (6,500 in the second year, 5,500
in the third year and 4,500 in the fourth), and providing equip-
ment and vehicles, including, inter alia, about 255 ambulances for
FWVs, 4 vehicle maintenance vans, about 20 vehicles for supervi-
sion of the districts and about 4,000 bicycles.
2.   Improving health, MCH and family planning services
by constructing, equipping and furnishing about 700 new FWCs and
19 new THCs for MOHPC.
3.   Improving the services of the Health Division and PCFPD
by the provision of suitable drugs and dietary supplement kits.
Part B.   Increasing the Capacity and Improving the Quality of
Training of Health and Family Planning Personnel
1.   Extending the activities of the four model family
planning clinics established under the First Project for training
of medical students by continuing operating cost support.
2.   Improving the training of FWVs by providing, inter
alia, technical assistance, books, materials and operating
expenses for the conduct of refresher courses. In addition, the
facilities at the Barisal FWV training school will be expanded to
accommodate about 80 students by providing additional classrooms,
dormitories, a library and staff quarters.
3.   Expanding the training capacity of the Health Division
by constructing, equipping and furnishing four new medical assis-
tants' training schools, by providing, inter alia, vehicles,
equipment, fellowships for teaching staff and stipends for
students.
4.   Expanding the training capacity of PCFPD by con-
structing, equipping and furnishing 19 training centers for FWAs
and FPAs by providing, inter alia, salary support for training
staff and operating expenses.


﻿- 18 -
5.   Expanding the training facilities of the PCFPL by
constructing, equipping and furnishing the training building
for PCFPD.
Part C.   Information, Education and Motivation Activities
1.   Improving the dissemination of information on population
planning and health problems through: (a) the use of mass media
activities of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, by
providing, inter alia, vehicles, equipment, fellowships, operating
costs both continuing and those related to new activities; (b)
women's development programs in about 84 thanas (42 new and 42
existing) by providing, inter alia, equipment and vehicles,
technical assistance and operating costs; construction, equipment
and furniture for women's vocational training centers in 12
thanas; and by establishing a marketing and design cell in the
PCFPD; and (c) training of community leaders and use of folk media
by the Information, Education and Motivation Unit of the PCFPD.
2.   Strengthening the Health Education Bureau of the Health
Division by providing, inter alia, advisory assistance, fellow-
ships, equipment, vehicles and operating expenses.
Part D.   Evaluation and Research
1.   Strengthening and further developing the Borrower's
capacity to evaluate and monitor population and health programs by
continuing the support provided under the First Project to the
Service Statistics Unit of the PCFPD and the External Evaluation
Unit of the Planning Commission, by providing, inter alia, vehi-
cles, equipment, operating costs and technical assistance.
2.   Assisting the Health Information Unit of the Health
Division to prepare and carry out a plan for the collection of
health management information, by providing inter alia, vehicles,
equipment, operating costs and fellowships.
Part E.   Innovative and Private Sector Activities
Assisting the PCFPD in executing innovative population
subprojects in the public and private sectors, as agreed to in
advance between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿- 19 -
Part F.   Administration, Management and Project Implementation
Strengthening the Borrower's Project implementation capacity:
1.   by providing BPDU, the FWC Administrative Unit, Supplies
Directorate, the Public Works Department and the Project Finance
Cell of the PCFPD, with vehicles, equipment, consultant services
and operating cost support; and
2.   by providing additional staff to assist the Borrower's
Population Project Officers.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Parts A.4, A.5, A.6 and A.7 hereof,
contracts for goods and civil works shall be awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   All procurement except as provided in Part A.6 below will
be based on bidding packages (consisting of related contracts
bulked to attract the interest of international suppliers) pre-
pared in consultation with the Association.
3.   In respect of civil works, other than for FWCs as provided
in Part A.6 below:
(a) Bidders for such works shall be prequalified as des-
cribed in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
(b) Invitations to prequalify shall be sufficient if adver-
tised in newspapers of general circulation in Bangladesh and
if copies of such invitations or advertisements are sent promptly
to local representatives of member countries of the Bank and
Switzerland which could supply the services required.
4.   Contracts for (a) furniture, other than for FWCs as pro-
vided in Part A.6 below, which cannot be grouped into packages
of $100,000 equivalent or more; (b) materials for the produc-
tion of films may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with the Borrower's usual pro-
cedures; and (c) civil works for women's vocational training
centers under Women's Rehabilitation and Welfare Foundation may
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with the Borrower's usual procedures.
5.   Drugs and dietary supplement kits may be procured through
the United Nations Children's Fund, or through any other agency
following international competitive bidding procedures in accor-
dance with the Guidelines.


﻿- 21 -
6.   Construction of FWCs, and provision of materials therefor,
shall be undertaken by community participation pursuant to
arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
7.   Equipment, furniture, vehicles and materials estimated to
cost less than $20,000 equivalent each may be procured through
international or local shopping on the basis of at least three
price quotations; provided, that the aggregate of items so pro-
cured shall not exceed $200,000 equivalent.
8.   Procurement of services of salaried staff of the Borrower
or its departments or agencies shall not be subject to the Guide-
lines.
9.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
10. For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 22 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Bangladesh.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 23 -
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth
in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be pro-
cured in accordance with international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modi-
fications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their
eligibility for domestic preference under Part C above and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifi-
cation and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower


﻿- 24 -
to the Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and contracts for furni-
ture, vehicles, equipment and drugs estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.


﻿- 25 -
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
(Section 3.07)
Schedule of Actions for Improving
Performance of Field Workers
Training
1.   Formulation of a plan for training          May 31, 1979
in supervision, for FWVs and TFPOs.
2.   Making 19 training teams operational.       June 30, 1979
3.   Review of curriculum of training of FWAs    June 30, 1979
and FPAs in the light of two evaluations
by PLANCOM and PCFPD; and include skills
to work with groups; implementation of
new working pattern, etc.
4.   Training of FWVs in supervision.            Starting date:
July 1, 1979
5.   Training of thana FP officers in            Starting date:
supervision.                               July 1, 1979
6.   Complete recruitment, training and         November 30, 1979
posting of nutritionists for 19
training teams.
7.   Complete preparation of work manual         December 31, 1979
for FWAs.
8.   Completion of trainer manual for FWA/       December 31, 1979
FPA training.
Supervision
9.   Preparation of a revised pattern            June 30, 1979
of work for FWA and issuance of
instructions, separately for:
(a) unions with FWVs; and (b) the
rest.
10. Issuance of detailed instructions           June 30, 1979
to union level FWVs to supervise
FWAs in her jurisdiction.


﻿- 27 -
11.   Issuance of detailed instructions             July 15, 1979
to PCFPD officers for supervision
from thana, subdivision, district
and national levels.
12.  Issuance of detailed instructions to           July 15, 1979
PCFPD and multisectoral staff in
coordinated functioning between various
social groups in villages and FWAs/FPAs.
13.  Issuance of detailed instructions in           July 15, 1979
establishing linkages between PCFPD
staff and self-reliant village program.
14. Initiation of training of community          December 1, 1979
leaders in supporting FWAs and FPAs
functions.
15. Appointment of thana level FWVs             December 31, 1979
for supervision.
16. Completion of the first two-weeks           December 31, 1980
training of all FWAs and FPAs
(17,000).
Logistics
17.  Complete supply of motorcycles                 June 30, 1979
and cycles to thana FP officers
and FPAs.
18.  Completion of initial procurement               August 1979
of drugs for union FWVs.
19. Completion of detailed plan for             December 31, 1979
setting up depot holders.
20.  Completion of procurement and                  February 1980
supply of 1,500 ladies bicycles.


