Report No. PIC2869
Project Name                   Indonesia-Partnership for Safe (@) ...
Motherhood and Family Development
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Project ID                     IDPA36956
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Population/National Family
Planning Coordination Board and Ministry
of Health
Project Appraisal Date         July 5, 1996
Projected Board Date           June 30, 1997
Sector Background and Government Strategy
1.   Despite overall improvements in health status indicators, maternal
health in Indonesia remains a cause for concern. Indonesian women are
at high risk of experiencing a death due to childbirth with about 420
deaths for every 100,000 livebirths -- a much higher risk than that
experienced by women in Southeast Asia and East Asia (MMR 340 and 120
deaths per 100,000 livebirths, respectively). The poor maternal health
status persists despite Indonesia+s achievements in reducing poverty and
lowering fertility rates.
2.   Improving maternal health is a high priority for Indonesia given
that many of the deaths are preventable and in light of their impact on
the health and welfare of other family members. Improving maternal
health in general, and maternal mortality in particular, require
interventions at several levels. These include:
reducing the number of pregnancies, especially those at high risk
from a health perspective (e.g., age, parity, symptoms of specific
diseases, etc.) and those which are unwanted;
reducing the risk of pregnancy-related deaths through: improved
management of pregnancies and deliveries through antenatal care,
obstetric care during delivery, and postnatal care; and reducing
fatalities from complications during pregnancies and childbirth.
3.   Thus, understanding why maternal mortality remains at such high
levels, and identification of interventions to reduce it require a close
examination of the two main interventions which have been used to
improve maternal health in general, and maternal mortality in particular
-- safe motherhood and family planning.
4.   Indonesia, like many other countries, launched a safe motherhood
strategy in the early 1990s following the international conference on
the topic in Nairobi. The main thrust was increasing access to maternal
health services by placing a midwife in each village (the bidan di desa
program (BDD)). The strategy tried to take into account the realities
of the Indonesian health care system and utilization patterns. Thus, as
the majority of women still rely on providers at the village level,



especially TBAs (59.6 and 33.2 percent of all deliveries are assisted by
TBAs and midwives respectively; DHS, 1994) and most deliveries still
occur at home (79 percent of all deliveries take place at home; DHS,
1991), and with the limited access to hospital obstetric care, it seemed
appropriate to promote midwives as the key providers for implementing
the strategy.
5.   While the aim of the BDD program to increase access to maternal
health services is appealing, it is too early to see if it has had any
effect on maternal mortality. Further, several factors that will
determine the effectiveness of the BDD program and its sustainability
have not been fully addressed. This is especially important since the
majority of the BDDs are on contract with the government for three years
only (may be extended to six) after which they are expected to be
private providers.
6.   The BDDs also have a critical role as providers of quality family
planning services. Their role gains more importance as the needs of
family planning clients change and the demand for quality clinical
services increases. In response, the family planning program has been
very supportive of the BDD concept. Thus, the BDD could play a critical
role in providing a full package of safe motherhood services at the
village level to the majority of the Indonesian women.
Key Issues
7.   A number of issues need to be addressed by efforts to improve
maternal health and promote safe motherhood. These include:
8.   Effectiveness of safe motherhood services, especially at the
village level. Improving effectiveness of services requires attention
to both the demand and the supply sides. On the demand side, it is
important to provide locally specific material that help women take
decisions about health care and interact with health providers.
Families and men should also be included in such campaigns given the
important role they play in decisions regarding reproductive health
care.
9.   On the supply side, despite the expansion in the health care
delivery system and the family planning program field operations, access
to quality safe motherhood services, especially by the poor and +hard-to
reach+, remains limited. There are several factors behind the poor
accessibility of services including geographic barriers, working hours
of the service delivery points, attitudes of health providers,
especially towards the poor clients. The BDD program is the
government's response to remove distance as a barrier to modern health
care services in most areas. Further, access to referral services and
emergency care to back-up the BDDs work is also important to give her
the needed support for maintaining credibility in the community. As for
quality of care, it is generally poor even for such basic elements like
appropriate case management.
10. Finally, given the diversity of maternal health and safe motherhood
needs across the country, efforts to improve the demand and the supply
sides have to be sensitive to local needs and conditions and should
- 2 -



consider these variations in their design and approaches. This in turn
could imply a series of service delivery arrangement that are likely to
include the private sector and NGOs as well as the public sector.
11. Sustainability, role of private sector and NGOs. Sustainability
(in the narrow financial terms) has not been achieved. Despite
significant efforts at promotion, the private sector provides only 30
percent of the family planning services, some of which are subsidized by
the public sector. To enhance sustainability, the program needs to
strengthen the role of the private sector and NGOs, reexamine the
costing strategies for the various contraceptives, and redirect its
resources and subsidies towards the poor.
Lessons Learned
12. Over the past 20 years, the Bank has financed about 14 projects in
health and population in Indonesia and conducted a number of sector
studies in these areas. This and other international experience provide
useful lessons for addressing the current issues. For the present
project, key lessons learned are: the need to address the diversity in
the country and increase local specificity of interventions; the
conditions under which BDDs are likely to be most effective; and
possible financing schemes for private sector development.
13. Local specificity of interventions. During the last five years,
program reviews and plans have started to recognize and address the
country's diversity and the limitations of the approach adopted by early
investments, i.e. blanket programs that were implemented nationwide. A
phased approach towards decentralization has been adopted by the
Ministry of Health (MOH). Although this experience is recent, it points
to the need to enhance capacity for planning and management at the local
levels, provide information for program design and evaluation at the
local level so they can be more readily used in program management;
increase bottom-up planning and local participation in discussions of
program design and objectives; and change the role of the center towards
providing support and technical assistance to the provinces/districts.
Recently, BKKBN has joined other sectors in their move towards
decentralization. BKKBN, despite its tradition of strong centralized
management, has a comparative advantage over other sectors in terms of
management capacity at the provincial levels and the abundance of
information at the provincial, district and even sub-district levels for
planning and managing the program provide a good start for
decentralizing the program.
14. Effectiveness of the BDD program. The experience with the BDD
program in the Fifth Population Project shows that although MOH is fully
supportive of the BDD initiative, its efforts for implementing the
strategy have been inadequate and slow, partly due to the size of the
program. Lessons from other countries like Malaysia and the Philippines
are also useful since these countries have implemented a similar policy.
In Malaysia, the initial phase of implementing the village midwives
program was not very successful. The midwives were young, not ready to
work in the community, there was confusion about their role versus that
of the TBAs and so forth. But a few years after the program was
launched, it became the backbone of the health care system. As for the
-3 -



Philippines, preliminary reports indicate that the midwives have been
perceived as a crucial part of the system and play a key role in
delivering services at the village level.
15. Promoting private sector development for safe motherhood services.
Recently, a number of new financial arrangements such as voucher
payments, franchising, and micro-loans have been used to promote the
delivery of maternal and family planning services by the private sector.
A number of these alternatives seems to be applicable to the Indonesian
context.
Project objectives
16. The main objective of the project is to improve safe motherhood
interventions. This will be achieved by increasing the effectiveness
and efficiency of safe motherhood services primarily at the village
level. Specific objectives of the project are to:
enhance the supply of safe motherhood services (of all partners in
service delivery) at the village level;
strengthen the demand for quality safe motherhood services at the
village level; and
review and develop policies and pilot programs to improve
efficiency and sustainability of safe motherhood services.
Project Description
17. Project Description. The project would have components that
correspond to the above objectives. These are -
18.   Component 1:   Strengthening the partnership for safe motherhood
services. The component aims at enhancing the supply of safe motherhood
services at the village level by using different service delivery
providers, depending on the local needs and conditions. The village
midwives, other private providers, NGOs, and public sector services will
comprise alternatives to be supported. The selection of specific
interventions will be district-specific based on careful assessment of
the local needs, the availability of BDDs and NGOs capacity, and other
ongoing programs. The component will also support the development and
implementation of mechanisms for ensuring quality of safe motherhood
services. This will involve developing performance-linked assessments
and incentives, establishing quality assurance mechanisms (that could
include developing independent quality assurance teams), auditing
training/curriculum development activities to improve management and
quality of care, and strengthening the capacity at government and
professional organizations to develop quality assurance mechanisms.
19. Component 2: Safe motherhood promotion. The component will
support IEC and other behavior change interventions to promote safe
motherhood and educate potential and actual users about services and
ways to utilize the services better. Attention will be given to special
groups, especially women experiencing high risk pregnancies and youth.
- 4 -



20. Component 3. Policy development, sustainability and evaluation
The component will support efforts for (a) policy review and
development, (b) pilot studies to improve sustainability of
interventions , and (c) data collection and evaluation.
Project Benefits, Risks, and Sustainability
21. Benefits. The project will provide direct social and economic
benefits by improving maternal health and inevitably the health of the
children and other family members. By focusing on services at the
village level, the project will improve the overall health status of the
rural population and will reduce complications and costly medical care.
The focus on improving services to the poor and hard-to-reach will
benefit those who have been missed by the health sector so far.
Further, by exploring options to improve quality, access and
sustainability, the project will help in providing quality care for
future generations. By adopting a locally specific approach for project
design and implementation, the project will build capacity at the
district and provincial level that will enhance their ability to develop
their own initiatives and projects in the future. Finally, by
supporting the evaluation capacity within the country, the project will
facilitate the shift from an input oriented planning process to an
impact oriented one.
22. Risks. The main risks for the project involve BKKBN+s ability to
reorient its program towards clients and health needs and to design
locally specific interventions. The poor coordination between BKKBN and
MOH may affect the BDD component because of turf issues between the two
organizations. A related matter is the development of programs for
assisting the BDDs establish private practice. It is important to
assure that such programs address issues beyond the financial viability
of the BDDs, including BDDs+ competencies and linkages to other village
health activities and to the rest of the health care delivery system.
23.  Sustainability.   One of the main objectives of the projects is to
assist the government in developing, testing, and implementing more
sustainable paradigms for delivery of family planning and safe
motherhood services.
Poverty/environment/project objectives
24. Improving maternal health will have significant health and human
development impacts. Although the primary beneficiaries are women, the
project will also yield health benefits to children. The poor will
particularly benefit from efforts to improve access to services,
especially for the hard-to-reach. The project will also promote the
role of the private sector in delivering safe motherhood and family
planning services. The project does not entail significant
opportunities or concerns as regards the environment.
25. The project's objective categories are as follows:
Major Sector: (Health)         (100)9
Poverty                         (15)9,
Human Re. Dev.                  (15)9
- 5-



Public/Private                  (35)9,
Women in Development            (35)9
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 6 -



