Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16624-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$42.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT:
A PARTNERSHIP AND FAMILY APPROACH
JUNE 3, 1997
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia & Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1997)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Unit$1.00 = Rp2,348
Rp I million = US$426
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia: April I - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDDs                    Bidan di Desa or Village Midwife
BAPPENAS                National Development Planning Agency
BKKBN                   National Family Planning Coordinating Board
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CPS                     Central Project Secretariat
DG                      Director General
FP                      Family Planning
GOI                     Government of Indonesia
ICR                     Implementation Completion Report
IEC                     Information, Education and Communications
MCH                     Maternal and Child Health
MH                      Maternal Health
MOEC                    Ministry of Education and Culture
MOH                     Ministry of Health
MORA                    Ministry of Religious Affairs
MOSA                    Ministry of Social Affairs
NGOs                    Non-Government Organizations
PMU                     Project Management Unit
PPM                     Provincial Project Manager
PSC                     Provincial Steering Committee
PTT                     Contract Doctor or Midwife
RH                      Reproductive Health
SC                      Steering Committee
SOE                     Statement of Expenditure
STDs                    Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TPC                     Targeted-Performance-based Contracts
Vice President                   Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Acting Director                  Richard A. Calkins, EA3
Division Chief                   Samuel Lieberman, EA3PH
Task Manager                     Fadia Saadah, EA3PH



INDONESIA
SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT:
A PARTNERSHIP AND FAMILY APPROACH
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Project Financing Data ..................................................1I
Block 1: Project Description ...................................................2
1. Project development objectives ...................................................2
2. Project components ...................................................2
3. Benefits and target population  ...................................................4
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ...................................................                             5
Block 2: Project Rationale ...................................................6
5. CAS  objectives supported by the project ...................................................6
6. Main sector issues and Government Strategy  ...................................................                                6
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  ................                                 ............8
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection  ...........................................9
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .10
10. Lessons learned and reflected  in the project design ................................................  10
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership  ............................................... 12
12. Value added of Bank support ................................................                                                  12
Block 3: Summary of Project Assessments ..................................................                                              12
13. Economic Assessment ..................................................                                                         12
14. Financial Assessment ..................................................                                                       12
15. Technical Assessment ..................................................                                                       13
16. Institutional Assessment ..................................................                                                   13
17. Social Assessment ..................................................                                                           15
18. Environmental Assessment ..................................................                                                   15
19. Participatory Approach ..................................................                                                     15
20. Sustainability ..................................................                                                              16
21. Critical Risks ..................................................                                                              16
22. Possible Controversial Aspects  ..................................................                                            18
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions ..................................................                                                         18
23. Board Conditions ..................................................                                                           18
24. Other ..................................................                                                                       18
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies ..................................................                                               20
Annexes and Map
Annex 1: Project Design Summary ..................................................                                              21
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description  ..................................................                                       27



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs  ....................................... 33
Annex 4: Economic Analysis .......................................                                                      34
Annex 5: Financial Summary .......................................                                                      50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements  .......................................   51
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule  ..................                              ..................... 58
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .......................................                                         59
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits  ....................................... 60
AnnexlO: Indonesia at a Glance  ........................................                                               64
IBRD MAP No. 28821



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Project Appraisal Document
Indonesia
Safe Motherhood Project:
A Partnership and Family Approach
Date: June 3, 1997                                                              Draft       z   Final
Task Manager: Fadia Saadah                               Country Director: Richard Calkins (Acting)
Project ID: ID-PE-36956                                  Sector: HNP
Lending Instrument: SIL                                  PTI:        E   Yes           E         No
Project Financing Data                   Z    Loan    g  Credit        [  Guarantee    C1 Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 42.5
........................... ............................ ......................................................................................................................................................................................
Proposed Terms:                            rj    Multicurrency   3   Single currency
Grace period (years):  3               E0    Standard         C3  Fixed             g   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$m): 61.9 million
Source                                                       Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                                    18.7                 0.7             19.4
IBRD                                                          26.9                15.6             42.5
Borrower: Republic of Indonesia
Responsible agencies: National Family Planning Coordinating Board, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education
and Culture Ministry of Religious Affairs, Ministry of Social Affairs and Provincial
Governments.
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1998          1999       2000       2001    2002
Annual 4.0          8.5       11.0       10.5       8.5
Cumulative  4.0        12.5       23.5       34.0      42.5
Expected effectiveness date: November 30, 1997                      Closing date: May 31, 2003



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 2
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
The project would assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI) to improve maternal health status in selected
districts in two provinces (East and Central Java) by
> Improving demand for and utilization of quality maternal health services;
=> Strengthening the sustainability of maternal health services at the village level;
=> Improving quality of family planning services; and
=> Preparing adolescents to lead a healthy reproductive life.
The project will achieve its objectives through a partnership approach encompassing the different public and
private sector agencies and NGOs involved in maternal health activities and addressing the supply and demand-
side factors currently constraining use of reproductive health services at the individual, family and community
levels. This project is perceived as the first phase of a larger program to improve maternal and reproductive health
in Indonesia.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Project activities will be grouped into two provincial components (East Java component and Central Java
component) that will be supported by selected central level activities identified in the central level component.
Component                            Category           Cost Incl.        %'Qf
Contingencies      Total
(US$M)
A. Provincial components (East Java/ Central Java)
1. Improving maternal health (MH) status, utilization
and sustainability of MH services
L (a) Demand for MH Services. This component aims at Institution                9.4 million    15.2
improving knowledge, attitudes and behavior regarding  building
maternal and reproductive health issues at the individual,
family   and   community   levels;   carrying   out
communications campaigns to support the role of the
village  midwives  (BDDs)  as  private  providers;
implementing community mobilization campaigns to
support maternal health services; and strengthening
political commitment for reproductive and maternal health
issues. The project will finance formative research and
studies; development of messages; media packages and
informational, education and communications (IEC)
materials; consultant services as well as training.
I. (b) Improving supply of MH services. The objective is Institution           15.4 million    24.9
to improve the quality and utilization of maternal health  building
services, especially at the village level, strengthen the
referral system, improve quality of emergency care and
reduce cost barriers of referral services by financing
emergency obstetric care for needy patients referred by
Form_



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 3
Country: Indonesia                                                            Projectd Tte: Safe Moterhood Project
Component                            Category         Cost Include.       % of
Contingencies      toa
BDDs. Specific health outcomes targeted include maternal                        (US$M)
mortality, maternal complications, anemia, infections of
the reproductive system, as well as tetanus and mortality in
neonates. The project would finance training, medical
equipment, surveys and research, instructional materials,
workshops, consultant services, and provision of
emergency obstetric care for the poor.
I. (C) Strengthening sustainability of maternal health  Policy               2.1 million        3.4
services at the village level This component would test
options to sustain BDDs as providers of health services at
the village level. Specifically, alternative contracting and
financing schemes for BDDs would be developed. These
schemes include the establishment of different group
practice models and targeted-performance-based contracts
(TPC). The project would finance training costs, provision
for alternative contractual arrangements for BDDs, funds
for private practice development for BDDs and research.
II. Increasing demand for and access to high quality
family planning (FP) services.
The objective is to increase the technical competence, Institution             10.3 million    16.6
counseling and interpersonal skills of various family  building
planning service providers.  The component includes
campaigns to increase awareness about side effects and
complications due to contraceptive methods and
development of quality assurance programs and other tools
for monitoring quality of family planning services.
Activities financed by the project include equipment,
training and workshops, development of IEC strategy and
media packages, and consultant services.
II. Preparing adolescents for healthy reproductive life
This component  would increase the knowledge of Institution                   4.5 million      7.3
adolescents of reproductive health  (RH) issues, RH  building
counseling needs and assist the different agencies in
identifying possible models for addressing such needs.
Activities financed by the project include training,
development of curriculum and teaching methodologies for
both formal and informal education, IEC and mass-media
campaigns, and workshops.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 4
Country: Indonesia                                                                      Project Ttle: Safe Motherhood Project
Component                                 Category              Cost Incl.          % of
Contingencies         Total
(US$M)l
IV. Project administration.
Includes provision of consultant services, office equipment  Project                       1.3 million       2.0
and supplies for project management and administration.    management
B. Central Level
I. Technical support and training.
Training strategies and guidelines for BDDs, development  Institution                     9.9 million       16.0
of new  IEC  strategies, preparation  of curricula  for  building
adolescent reproductive health, and provision of technical
support to the provinces/districts. Central level activities
also include limited support for fellowships in areas
directly related to project objectives
II. Policy, research and evaluation.
Policy related studies on midwifery training strategy, the  Institution                   7.1 million       11.5
sustainability   of  the   village   midwives   program,  building/policy
reproductive health issues, quality of FP services and so
forth. The component also includes baseline and follow-up
surveys, rapid assessments and special evaluation studies,
data analysis, dissemination workshops and technical
assistance for implementing the monitoring and evaluation
activities of the project.
III. Project administration
Includes provision of consultant services, office equipment  Project                       1.9 million       3.1
and supplies for project management and administration.    management
Total                                                                                    61.9 million      100.0
;...........   ..............................................................................................................................................................................................
3. Ben efi'ts and target population:
The target population in the project districts includes:
* women of childbearing age
* families and newborn children
*  adolescents
The project would directly benefit the women of childbearing age and their families by
* reducing maternal mortality
* reducing maternal morbidity (including maternal anemia, control of reproductive tract and other infections)
* reducing unwanted pregnancies through better quality of family planning services
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 5
Country: Indonesia                                                         Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
* reducing neonatal mortality as a result of the improved health of mothers
* improving reproductive health as a result of improved education and counseling services for adolescents
The improved health of mothers could also be expected to result in indirect benefits such as better parenting, a
possible increase in family income and reduced costs to the health system.
In addition, should the pilot on terms of employment for BDDs be successful, there would also be income and
other benefits to BDDs as the new scheme was implemented, making their work more attractive and sustainable.
The broader population would also benefit from such an innovation as the availability of general health services at
the village level would be improved.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The project will be implemented over about five years (FY1998-FY2002)
Executing agencies: The main executing agencies are the National Family Planning Coordinating Board
(BKKBN) and the Ministry of Health (MOH). In addition, the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC),
Ministry of Religious Affairs (MORA), Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) and the local government will be
involved in project implementation. GOI has assigned BKKBN as the lead agency for the project.
Project coordination: BAPPENAS at the Central level and the Bappeda at the provincial and district levels
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): BKKBN and MOH
Accounting. financial reporting and auditing arrangements: GOI would establish separate accounts for all project
expenditures, to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices. Accounts for the SOEs and
Special Account would be maintained separately by DG Budget, MOF, for annual audit. The financial statements
and consolidated financial reports would be audited annually in accordance with Bank guidelines, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, including a separate audit opinion on SOE expenditures. GOI will provide
certified copies of the financial report on the project for each government fiscal year starting September 30, 1998.
GOI will also monitor progress in project implementation and report to the Bank on a biannual basis. Within six
months after the completion of disbursements, GOI would submit an implementation completion report (ICR) to
the Bank. During negotiations the Government provided assurances that the project accounts, including the
Special Account and SOEs, will be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and audit
reports will be furnished to the Bank within six months of the end of the Government'sfiscal year.
To ensure accountability to the Government, the Bank and the general public, two technical audits of the various
project components will be carried out no later than July 31, 2000 and November 30, 2002, in a manner
acceptable to the Bank and the technical audit reports will be furnished to the Bank promptly thereafter. The
technical audit will be carried out by an independent consultant with no association with the project. The goal of
the technical audits is to provide an independent and impartial assessment of the quality and adequacy of the
procedures and processes employed by the implementing agencies. During negotiations, assurances were
provided that Government will carry out two technical audits andfurnish reports on them to the Bank no later
than July 31, 2000 and November 30, 2002.
Fonn



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 6
Country: Indonesia                                                                 Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
=> Indicators. A core set of indicators will be used to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project. Specific
indicators can be found in Annex 1.
> Data sources for monitoring and evaluation activities are also presented in Annex 1. These include: (a)
reporting and recording forms for the health and population sectors, (b) baseline and follow-up studies, and (c)
special evaluation studies and rapid assessments.
= Monitoring and evaluation activities will be the responsibility of the central and provincial project
management units which will furnish to the Bank annual reports describing project implementation and
progress based on agreed project performance indicators (see Annex 1).
=> Bank assessments and monitoring will be based on the results of a joint annual review of the project that will
be carried out no later than October 31, in each year, project progress reports, review missions, field visits,
and results of technical audits. In addition, results of other data sources and surveys will be used to validate
mission findings and assessments, when possible.
> In addition to the regular monitoring of project implementation, a mid-term review will be carried out by July
31, 2000 and an implementation completion review (ICR) will also be conducted at the end of the
implementation period.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by   Document number and date of latest CAS discussion:
the project                      I 13988-IND dated February 27, 1995 and updated on June 4, 1996.
The CAS stresses the key themes of human resource development, promoting poverty reduction by increasing
access to and quality of basic services and enhancing sustainability. This project will:
. improve health, especially for the poor. Improved maternal health will have positive impacts on women and
their families and thus assist human resource development in the country. Special emphasis is placed in the
project on increasing access to maternal health services by the poor.
* improve quality of services. The project emphasizes local specificity in project design, improving the skills of
the BDDs, and strengthening service quality at the village level.
* enhance sustainability. Through pilot efforts, strategies to enhance program sustainability will be developed,
tested and implemented through the project.
~~~~~~~~~~~...   ................................. .............................. ......................................................................................................
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Despite Indonesia's achievements in family planning, maternal health status remains a cause of concern.
Indonesian women still face high risks of dying due to childbirth, with about 390 deaths for every 100,000
livebirths, and a lifetime risk of matemal death of about 1 in 89, compared to 1 in 1000 in low mortality countries.
Other reproductive health indicators such as the prevalence of anemia and reproductive tract infection rates are also
a concem. Poor matemal health status is the result of underconsumption of matemal health services due to
constraints on both the supply and demand sides some of which are reinforced or derived from institutional
constraints.
The supply of maternal health services is limited by the availability and quality of providers. In 1992 government
adopted a zero growth policy for employment of civil servants. Concurrently, GOI embarked on a program to train
more than 55,000 BDDs. In order to maintain the zero growth policy while increasing the number of BDDs, GOI
adopted an interim solution which involved employing BDDs on contract for periods of three years that could be
extended to six after which they were expected to become private providers (PTT program). It is now clear that
Form_



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 7
Country: Indonesia                                                              Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
many, if not most, BDDs will not be sustained as private providers, especially in villages which are poor and
remote. At the same time, the first cohort of BDDs will graduate from the PTT program this year. Nevertheless,
GOI has not developed a medium- or long-term solution for ensuring the sustainability of this cadre of health
workers, and to establish them as key providers of maternal health services. Addressing this issue is critical for
improving consumption of maternal health services if BDDs are to underpin the safe motherhood strategy.
Poor quality of maternal health services is manifested at all levels, in the public and, to a lesser extent, in the private
sector. Among the key factors affecting quality are the weak technical competency and counseling skills of health
providers. In addition, there is no incentive for staff to improve quality of public services - there may even be some
incentives to maintain the higher quality in the private sector, in which most staff also participate, in order to retain
a client base. Thus, improving quality will involve strengthened pre-service and in-service training and resolution of
the possible conflict between public and private sector roles.
The demand-side constraints relating to maternal health services include lack of recognition of signs and symptoms
of impending obstetric emergencies at the individual, family and community levels. This is due to a complex set of
issues related to cultural norms, lack of information, price constraints, and perceptions about the health sector and
its effectiveness. To date, GOI's response has been mainly focused on the supply side. BDDs were trained and
deployed to most villages. However, the effectiveness of this program is limited and the utilization of BDD services
remains low. Information campaigns have been sporadic and low intensity, conducted through a piece meal
approach. Moreover, efforts to address price constraints for paying for the relatively expensive emergency care,
especially by the poor have been, at best, minimal. This is an area where private sector and insurance markets have
failed to respond to needs and where government intervention is needed, provided risks of government failures can
be avoided.
Many of these sector issues are rooted in institutional arrangements. These include decentralization and local
specificity of interventions, and coordination issues. Health and family planning programs remain highly
centralized and most budgets and personnel allocations are centrally determined. This limits the local specificity of
interventions and hinders program effectiveness. In recent years, government has decentralized some planning and
budgeting responsibilities to the province and district levels. However, the implementation of such a policy is still
in its early stages.
Moreover, institutional arrangements and coordination issues pose special challenges for the delivery of maternal
and reproductive health services. Family planning services have been the responsibility of a strong, vertical
program, while MCH activities are delivered through a series of vertical programs within MOH structure and STDs
are handled by a separate Directorate-General (DG). In addition, referral services fall under hospital services under
yet another DG. This vertical approach to the delivery of family planning services and the mixture of vertical and
horizontal programs for addressing other reproductive health programs through MOH, indicate both the need for,
and inherent difficulties associated with, coordination of maternal and reproductive health activities. It also
reinforces the need for local planning and coordination -- a key feature of this project's design.
Relevant Economic and Sector work:
.  Indonesia's Health Work Force: Issues and Options (1994). World Bank Report Number 12935-IND.
.  Indonesia. Family Planning Perspectives in the 1990's (1990). World Bank Report Number 7760-IND
. Population and the World Bank: Implications From Eight Country Case Studies (1992). OED.
* Implementation Completion Report (in progress). Indonesia. Fifth Population Project.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 8
Country: Indonesia                                                              Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Based on the above analysis, the following is a brief description of the issues addressed through the project and the
strategic choices made.
Issue                                          Strategic Choices
-Supply of MH services:
Sustainability of BDDs: The BDD         Project strategic choices include:
program, a key component of the safe    *  promote the BDDs as private providers;
motherhood strategy, is not likely to be    *  develop alternative contractual arrangements whereby
sustainable in its present configuration.  government subsidies are better targeted to providing public
Most BDDs are likely to leave the          goods and services to the poor.
villages, especially the remote and poor   *  provide incentives for BDDs serving in very poor and/or
ones.                                      remote areas.
* increase BDD's access to credit for the development of their
private practices.
Quality of MH services: As noted,       The project will focus on:
quality involves - technical and        *  improving technical and counseling skills, especially for BDDs
counseling skills, management and       *  adapting the quality assurance approach (currently developed
linkages of the different parts of the     under the Fourth Health Project) to MH/RH issues and for
health care system, and the overall        emergency care at the hospital level.
incentive structure for health providers.    *  developing, on a pilot basis, performance-based contracting
Poor quality affects the effectiveness of,  arrangements for BDDs.
and demand for, health services.        *  testing, on a pilot basis, options for financing referrals.
-Demand for MH services
Knowledge, attitudes and practices: A   The project will improve knowledge about key reproductive health
key factor affecting the               issues and related health seeking behaviors through:
underconsumption of maternal health     *  community mobilization efforts
services is lack of information at the  *  IEC campaigns
individual, family and community levels.  .  maintaining demand for RH services by educating adolescents.
Price constraints: a number of studies  The project will include provisions for emergency obstetric care for
have identified concerns about prices of   poor patients who are referred by BDDs.
MH services, especially for emergency
obstetric care, as a constraint for using
such services. Price constraints are likely
to have higher effect on utilization
patterns among the poor.
-Local specificity of interventions: It is  Project interventions and annual plans are prepared and
essential to identify interventions that are  implemented by district level staff with assistance from the
locally specific and that can respond to local   provincial and central levels. Exceptional cases will be managed at
needs and conditions.                       the province level for efficiency considerations.
Coordination issues: Coordination is critical   Coordination will take place as close as possible to the
at many levels:                             implementation level. Thus, most of the coordination would be
*  between BKKBN and MOH, and other         carried out at the district level and below. The project will also
sectors                                 support the role of the Bappeda (levels I & 11) in coordinating
*  across MCH programs in MOH               project activities. Joint annual plans will be prepared at the district
*  across different levels of care, i.e., village  and provincial levels.
level, health center, and district levels.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 9
Country: Indonesia                                                          Project Thie: Safe Motherhood Project
8. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection;
Several broad choices were considered in designing the project. These were: (a) continuing the current approach
adopted by government; (b) working with MOH alone, mostly on supply side issues; (c) working with BKKBN,
only on the demand side; and (d) working on both supply and demand side factors with both ministries and stressing
coordination between the two.
The current approach is essentially based on provision of maternal health services under the responsibility of MOH.
In the past this has involved the delivery of services through the fixed facilities such as health centers and sub
centers. More recently, this approach was extended to include training and allocation of more than 55,000 BDDs
with the aim of providing a BDD to each village. While this has resulted in some improvement in local knowledge
of safe motherhood issues, there is still underconsumption of services. Further, the sustainability of the BDD is
uncertain, largely due to the relatively low workload in any given village and the limited opportunities for
supplementing their income through private practice once their contract with the government ends. In addition, this
approach has not placed any emphasis on the next generation of parents, adolescents, in either supply or demand
interventions. These shortcomings are acknowledged by the government and have motivated their request for the
present project.
The second alternative that was considered by the project was an intensification of the current approach and
involved working with MOH, mostly on supply side interventions. Such a strategic choice would support the school
of thought claiming that for safe motherhood and maternal health, the focus has to be on the supply of maternal
health services, in general, and on emergency care, in particular. However, as has been demonstrated in the
MotherCare I pilots in Indonesia, demand factors are critical in the Indonesian context and supply driven
approaches are likely to fail in improving the consumption of safe motherhood services. In fact, the 1994 DHS
results show that 70 percent of all women and 83 percent of rural women still deliver at home. Thus, unless the
project reaches these women and their families, it is not likely to change their consumption patterns. Therefore, the
focus on the supply side constraints only was rejected.
The other route that the project could have taken was to work with BKKBN, mainly on demand generation with the
expectation that the private sector would respond to generated demand and would supply the needed services.
There were several reasons for rejecting this approach. First, given the market failures in safe motherhood services,
the private sector is not likely to respond to emergency cases. Second, while there may be adequate incentives for
the private sector to provide some maternal health services (especially those that are not rare and expensive to
maintain), it is not a viable option in isolated areas and does not ensure service availability to the poor. Third,
attempts to create demand may have a negative effect on utilization if working solely with BKKBN would have no
effect on the supply side market failures that were affecting consumption of maternal health services.
The reality is that further improvement in safe motherhood in Indonesia requires a coordinated approach which
emphasizes both supply and demand. This will require further attention to improving supply, particularly the skills
and sustainability of the BDD and a deeper understanding of the reasons for the current lack of demand. This
requires building on the respective strengths of MOH and BKKBN and putting in place mechanisms which
maximize coordination between them. Thus, the main alternative considered was the one adopted in the project, an
approach in which the two ministries work as partners to deliver a project in which supply and demand side
activities are coordinated. The supply side interventions will concentrate on piloting interventions designed to
promote the sustainability of the BDD through emphasis on their role as a private practice provider of safe
motherhood services as well as improved quality of services. Such pilots will involve alternative contracting
schemes for BDDs whereby compensation package depends on the characteristics of the areas where they save as
well as the services they provide -- i.e., performance-based contracting. The demand side interventions will
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 10
Country: Indonesia                                                                   Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
concentrate on providing more information at the village level about pregnancies and the risks of maternal
morbidity and mortality and the need for intact referral plans to allow timely access to obstetric services in cases of
emergency. Finally, this alternative will educate adolescents (through formal and informal education) about
parenthood, their own role and the role of the health services in ensuring safe deliveries.
........................ ...................................................................... .........................................................................................................................................................
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned).
The Bank has financed 15 projects in health/population sector. Eleven have been completed, four are under
implementation. Although most of these projects relate to this project, two projects - the Fifth Population Project
(Population V), and the Third Community Health and Nutrition Project (CHN3) are directly related to this project
and provided important lessons for its design.
*  Population V  (Loan 3298-IND; US$104 million; closed on September 1996). The project took initial steps in
the maternal and reproductive health field. The main features of the project of relevance to the present project
are its efforts to improve quality of family planning services and its efforts in the area of midwifery training and
deployment. Following the midterm review of Population V, it was evident that a significant unfinished agenda
in the area of reproductive health remained and that issues related to the effectiveness and sustainability of
village midwives require further attention. The project was executed by BKKBN and MOH.
*  CHN III (Loan 3550-IND); US$93.4 million; Closing Date September 1999). The project has as one of its
objectives strengthening safe motherhood services in five provinces - West Java, Central Java, Irian Jaya,
Maluku, and NTT. As part of the project, program development initiatives developed by different districts and
provinces were implemented and have provided important lessons learned for the preparation of the present
project. However, CHN III did not focus on referral services and its efforts on the demand-side have been
limited. The project is executed by MOH.
As for other donors, the ADB financed Family Health and Nutrition project, launched in March 1997, includes a
number of activities with potential to improve maternal health. It is being implemented through MOH and BKKBN
in North Sumatra, South Kalimantan, Jambi, Bengkulu and Central Kalimantan Provinces. ADB is also planning to
finance a project on Enhancing Reproductive Health. However, project preparation has not started yet. AusAID
and JICA are also preparing small scale projects which will include some activities related to maternal health care.
However, none of these projects is currently addressing the key sector constraints outlined above.
~~~~~~~~.............................. .............................................I................................................................ ...............................................................................................
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Over the past 20 years, the Bank has financed 15 projects and conducted a number of sector studies in health and
population in Indonesia. This and other international experience provide some clear lessons for project design. For
the present project, key lessons learned are: the need for local specificity in interventions; the need to improve
BDD effectiveness and sustainability; the need to address both supply and demand factors of maternal health
conditions; and the need to coordinate activities between ministries.
1. The needfor local specificity.
Indonesia is a large and diverse country and it is now recognized by the government and donors that while the
uniform, blanket approaches of the past have led to significant improvement in access to government services, they
now must give way to programs which address the needs of the local communities. To this end the Government has
introduced a number of innovations aimed at promoting decentralization through a phased approach. Although this
experience is recent, it points to the need to enhance capacity for planning and management at the local levels,
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 11
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
increase local participation in discussions of program design and objectives; and change the role of the center
towards providing support and technical assistance to the provinces/districts. Recently, BKKBN has joined other
sectors in their move towards decentralization.
2. BDD effectiveness and sustainability must be improved.
BDDs were introduced as an alternative to previous approaches (including TBAs and maternity huts) to improving
safe motherhood, which failed as a means to improve maternal health. Experience with the BDD program in the last
five years indicates that more attention will need to be paid to improving their effectiveness and sustainability. This
will require upgrading their skills through both pre-service and in-service training, strengthened supervision and
support, especially to the more recent graduates, and redefinition of their role to include provision of a wider range
of health services at the village level. Improved sustainability will require innovations in the terms and conditions of
their employment which take account of the diverse settings in which they work and promote evolution of their role
to more adequately meet the demands of the populations they serve. Currently BDDs in widely varying settings
receive essentially the same levels of compensation despite wide variation in the level of additional income they can
generate. As a result, BDDs are less likely to stay in remote, small or poor villages -- the areas that need them most.
In addition, BDDs have very limited access to credit in order to establish the facilities needed for private practice.
Addressing these conditions is essential for improving effectiveness and sustainability of the program.
3. Programs need to address both supply and demandfactors.
Background studies and experience in earlier projects have indicated the need for simultaneously improving supply
of, and demand for, health care. A number of programs in Indonesia have been successful in achieving this balance,
e.g., the family planning program and the Vitamin A control program. This is not the case in maternal and
reproductive health. The supply driven BDD program has not been successful in increasing utilization of modem
health care providers. The earlier demonstration projects (e.g., the Mother Care program) illustrated the need to
address the demand side factors, especially at the family level where decisions regarding health care seeking
behavior for delivery care are taken. However, programs that were successful in generating demand but ignored
supply of services have not been effective either.
4. Coordination of MOH and BKKBN in provision of safe motherhood activities is essential.
Although several Bank-financed projects have attempted to strengthen the coordination between BKKBN and
MOH, success has been limited. Differences in both the institutional settings of the MCH/Family health units at
MOH and the Family Planning program and the management styles in the two programs have affected the success
of these efforts. However, coordination has been more successful at the local levels.
Project design features that reflect lessons learned are as follows:
*  Project activities will achieve local specificity through the preparation of district-specific plans for safe
motherhood.
*  Improved effectiveness of the BDDs is addressed through more appropriate and higher quality training. In
addition, the project will pilot test alternate ways of compensating and supporting the BDDs in private practice,
and provision of credit for establishing private practice facilities.
* The project includes both supply and demand interventions and mechanisms for their coordination.
* Specific attention is being paid to mechanisms which will facilitate agreement on the roles of the two ministries
and for coordination of activities at the local level.
Form



Proed Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 12
Country: Indonesia                                                                   Project rite: Safe Motherhood Project
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Indonesian government has expressed serious concerns about maternal health status in the country, and the
need to reduce the maternal mortality ratio has recently received strong political support at presidential and
ministerial levels (e.g., Presidential Decree Number 69/MENKES/SK/l/1993 requiring placement of a midwife in
every village).
As for the commitment of the different partners to the project and its preparation process, BKKBN has
demonstrated strong interest in and ownership of this project since its inception. This commitment was maintained
despite initial difference of opinion about the scope of the project and the preparation process -- BKKBN wanted to
move on a wider front and with less preparatory work and consultations. BKKBN also perceives the preparation
and later implementation of the project as an important challenge to the institution since it represents a strategic
shift from a population-driven, family planning focus to a client-oriented reproductive health approach.
As for MOH, the other main partner in the project, its involvement and commitment were relatively weak at first.
However, as MOH participation in project preparation increased, its ownership and commitment to the project was
significantly enhanced. Other stakeholders showed strong support for the project concept and were active in
defining their role in project preparation and implementation.
;   iaue addedof Bank su      ;;port:----.-...-..............................
The long history of the Bank's involvement in the health and population sectors, and its credibility with MOH,
BKKBN and BAPPENAS made an impact on the project content and the preparation process. Highlights of the
Bank's contributions include:
* In terms ofproject content.
> Assisting GOI in addressing policy, design and implementation issues at different administrative levels
taking into account the demand and supply issues.
=> Ability to identify issues over a wide range of disciplines including the technical content of safe
motherhood and maternal health, institutional constraints, market failures, labor market issues as well as
demand side determinants of maternal health.
= Assisting in operationalizing a strategic shift for the sector from a traditional population approach to a
reproductive health one.
> Incorporating lessons learned from other Bank projects and the larger literature on maternal health and
safe motherhood programs.
* In terms ofprocess. The most important contribution of the Bank was to facilitate the project partnership
approach. The Bank was also instrumental in helping GOI prepare the project in consultation with the different
stakeholders and beneficiaries and by incorporating lessons learned from preparation of previous projects and
mobilizing high quality technical assistance.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment          D      Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$                fOther [Specify]
(see Annex 4 for details):              million; ERR=    %
Fiscal impact (for all projects): (See Annex 4)
~~~~~~~~~.... .... ........................................ .. ........ ..... .... ..................... ....................................I..  ......................................................................  .................
14. FinancialAssessment                               NPV=US$ NA           million; FRR=  NA  %
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 13
Country: Indonesia                                                                 Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
15. TechnicalAssessment:
The interventions to be included in this project are based on a long experience in health care delivery and maternal
health issues by the Bank and by the ministries involved. In addition, project preparation has enabled technical
assessment of all aspects through inputs from local and international technical experts.
This project builds on the interventions used in previous Bank projects, particularly the Fifth Population Project and
the Third Community Health and Nutrition Project, both of which included large components on safe motherhood
and reproductive health. During project preparation Bank staff, together with local and international experts in
maternal and reproductive health, adolescent health, IEC, nutrition and the economic aspects of reproductive health
have reviewed all project components. Based on the this work the project components and the specific interventions
proposed are assessed to be consistent with international best practice.
Assessments made during project preparation have confirmed that the cost estimates are reasonable and that
appropriate allowances have been made for physical and price contingencies.
During project implementation supervision missions will review project implementation and ensure that the
technical quality of the project is maintained.
~~~~~~~~~~.     .....................................................................................I........................................ .........................................................................................................
16. Institutional Assessment:
a. Implementing agencies: A number of executing agencies control the key inputs needed for producing the desired
outputs and outcomes. These include: BKKBN, MOH, Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC), Ministry of
Religious Affairs (MORA), Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) and Local Governments. Most of the project
activities will be implemented by BKKBN and MOH.
* BKKBN the lead executing agency for the project, has been internationally recognized for its management
capacity and ability to carry out community mobilization and IEC activities. Over the past two decades,
BKKBN has established a strong IEC network that extended from the central to the village level. This network
is supported by a strong management system at all levels. BKKBN has also been successful in working with
other partners for community mobilization, especially religious and community leaders as well as selected
NGOs. Recently, BKKBN has expanded its mandate to include family welfare activities. This component of
BKKBN's activities witnessed significant growth during the last 3 years. The impact of this expansion on
BKKBN's implementation capacity, especially of family planning and demand campaigns for reproductive
health services, is not clear. Moreover, BKKBN, until recently, had little experience with reproductive health
issues other than family planning.
*  MOH controls a large network of public health facilitates --at the village, sub-district, district and provincial
levels. These facilities are physically accessible to a large segment of the population. However, the quality of
services provided through this network is relatively poor and the facilities are underutilized. On the other hand,
MOH is the key agency responsible for setting health policies and strategies and, therefore, is one of the key
agencies for addressing safe motherhood and reproductive health issues.
*  MOEC, MORA and MOSA. MOEC and the large network of schools that it oversees are an important vehicle
for reaching the youth and for providing educational materials. Utilizing MOEC machinery to deliver health
education has been perceived as a cost-effective tool for providing health education. However, although the
population education programs were very successful, the effectiveness of the school health program is not yet
clear. An institutional risk relates to the ability of the organizations to select and train the right teachers to
deliver the sensitive information on reproductive health issues. As for MORA and MOSA, they both have
networks for reaching the communities, in general, and the adolescents in particular, that could assist in
achieving project objectives.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 14
Country: Indonesia                                                         Project Title: Safe Motherhood ProJed
* Local government. Involvement of local government is an important factor for the long term sustainability of
the project. Local governments have played an important role in coordinating other multi-sectoral programs,
especially through the Bappedas (levels I & 11). The effectiveness of this role depends largely on the Bappeda
and how effective they are in playing the coordination role.
Based on this institutional assessment, the project has adopted a partnership approach building on the strengths and
weaknesses, and addressing the shortcomings of, the different agencies involved. This, however, needs to be
accompanied by clear and simple mechanisms for project management and fund channeling.
b. Project management: Management arrangements are designed to take into account institutional arrangements
and lessons learned from other Bank financed projects. Thus, the project will have one management unit at each
level with assigned implementation and management roles that are consistent with the mandates and roles of the
different implementing agencies
Project management structure. The project management structure will be as follows:
* Central Level. At the central level, project management will be as follows:
= a Steering Committee (SC) chaired by the Deputy for Human Resources, BAPPENAS, whose members
are from Echelon I representatives from the key implementing agencies involved in the project. The main
role of the SC is to provide overall policy guidance on implementation of the project. The SC should meet
at least twice a year.
r a Project Director who will be the Deputy for Planning and Program analysis, BKKBN. The Deputy
Project Director will be the Director General for Community Health, MOH. The Project Director and
Deputy Director will be responsible for overall guidance for project implementation and will liase with the
SC on policy related matters.
=> Technical Committee(s) will address specific technical issues. Three such committees have been identified
-- for monitoring and evaluation activities, demand generation activities and maternal health.
= a Project Manager with appropriate qualifications and experience will be appointed to the project. The
Deputy Project Manager will be the head of the Family Health Division, MOH. The Project Manager is
responsible for overall project implementation and will be assisted by a Central Project Secretariat (CPS)
and a treasurer.
' a CPS will be established and maintained in the Planning Bureau, BKKBN, and will be responsible for
ensuring implementation of the project and will be headed by a full time Executive Secretariat. The CPS
will also include a Planning/Coordinating officer, a procurement officer, a financial/disbursement officer,
secretary and other qualified staff. The CPS will include seconded staff from both BKKBN and MOH.
* Provincial Level. At the provincial level, project management structure will be as follows:
=> a Provincial Steering Committee (PSC), chaired by the Governor and include members from Kanwils for
key implementing agencies involved in the project. The role of the PSC is to provide overall guidance on
implementation of the project. The PSC should meet at least twice a year.
=  a Project Coordinator who will be the head of Bappeda supported by a Provincial Technical/Coordination
Teams with membership from the different sectors. The Bappeda will report to the Governor and will be
responsible for overall coordination. The technical coordination teams will meet at least four times a year
to review overall project progress and ensure overall coordination.
=> a Provincial Project Manager (PPM) who is qualified and experienced, will be appointed to the project.
The PPM is responsible for overall project implementation and will be assisted by a Project Secretariat.
The PPM will be appointed by BKKBN with a deputy from MOH.
Formn



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 15
Country: Indonesia                                                                       Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
=> a Provincial Project Secretariat (PPS) will be established and maintained by the Project Provinces in the
provincial office of BKKBN (Kanwil) in each project province, and will be responsible for ensuring project
implementation of the project and will be headed by a full time Executive Secretariat. The Secretariat will
be staffed with a procurement officer, a financial/disbursement officer, secretary and other qualified staff.
The Secretariat will include seconded staff from both BKKBN and MOH.
*  District Level. At the district level, the structure will be simpler with the Head of District (Bupati) responsible
for the overall program while Bappeda II will be responsible for project coordination. The project officer
(BKKBN) will be responsible for daily administrative activities with MOH staff acting as technical advisors. A
working group will be established at the district level with members from the different sectors involved in
project implementation. The working group will be responsible for project reporting requirements including
disbursements.
*  Funds Channeling. Funds will be channeled through the sectoral development budgets (DIPs) for the respective
agencies (e.g., BKKBN, MOH, MOEC). In addition, funds for the Bappeda I and Bappeda II will be channeled
through INPRES Sarkes mechanisms.
As important as the management structure is the appointment of qualified staff to the structure. During
negotiations, assurances were provided that the project management units (PMUs) at the provincial and central
levels would be established with staffing acceptable to the Bank and that the establishment of these units (including
the appointment of key staffi would be a condition of Board Presentation. The condition wasfulfilled.
.................... .................. ........................................................................................................................................................................... ................................
17. SocialAssessment:
Work carried out during project preparation and the processes built into implementation are designed to ensure that
the project is appropriate to the local context.
During project preparation, there was extensive consultation with NGOs, the central ministries staff, provincial staff
and representatives of all project districts. District staff were heavily involved in formulating the details of the
project activities to ensure that the overall project is responsive to local needs. In addition, during project
implementation there is provision for extensive formative research to ensure that the needs and perspectives of the
local populations are reflected in the IEC campaigns.
The project has an explicit emphasis on the poor and those in isolated areas through such interventions as the
funding for referral services, which aims to remove a barrier to use of referral facilities for obstetric emergency
cases. In addition, the proposed pilot of new conditions for BDDs will result in better targeting of government
subsidies to the poor and ensure that reproductive health services are more likely to be available to the poor and/or
more remote villages.
~~~~~~~~............................................................................................................................. ...... ..........................I.........................................................................
18. Environmental Assessment:                 Environmental           g  A       El B    g       C
Category
19. Participatory Approach':                            Identification/Preparation             Implementation
Beneficiaries/community groups                                   IS/CON                              COL
Intermediary NGOs                                                IS/CON                              COL
Academic institutions                                            IS/CON                           CON/COL
Local government                                                 IS/CON                              COL
Other donors                                                        IS                                IS
This is described in terms of: Information sharing (IS), Consultation (CON), and Collaboration (COL).
Forn



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 16
Country: Indonesia                                                                   Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
20. Sustainability:
The project tests alternative approaches to promoting the financial sustainability of the BDDs. The salaries of
BDDs currently absorb about one-third of the MOH personnel budget. The project will pilot a new type of contract
(TPC) for the BDD which, if successful, can significantly reduce the recurrent cost burden of the BDD immediately.
In addition, by targeting most MOH payments to the BDD for services provided to the poor, the TPC should also
lead to reductions in MOH recurrent health expenditures over time, as the proportion of the population who are poor
continues to decline with future development. Accordingly, the TPC provides an "exit strategy" for MOH support
to the BDD, who will be assisted to become self-sustaining private providers.
Another major component of the project (i.e., funds to finance the cost of referral services) substitutes demand-side
financing for supply-side financing of emergency obstetric services. Because government subsidies for this
financing scheme are limited to the poor, the recurrent cost burden of this major project activity will also decline
over time, as the proportion of the population requiring such assistance diminishes. The use of demand-side
financing of obstetric emergency services is also consistent with the trend toward self-financing hospitals (unit
swadana), which is a potentially important aspect of the health sector's overall sustainability.
Although some of the project's interventions are designed to promote overall health sector sustainability, other
interventions (e.g., training) will clearly impose additional recurrent cost burdens on MOH budgets as they are
expanded to cover the entire country. These additional costs are necessary in order to improve the quality of
maternal health and family planning services in the public sector. A study by Rochjati et al. (1996) in Indonesia
estimates that it would cost approximately $0.30 per capita (701 Rupiah) to reduce the maternal mortality ratio from
425 to 225 per 100,000 live births. Although such an expenditure would be equal to 6.6 percent of total government
health expenditures in 1994/95, it would be expected to be phased in over a period of five years or more. During
this time, government health expenditures are projected to grow at a rate of 6-10 percent. Accordingly, the total
cost of a safe motherhood program could be covered by the annual growth in the MOH budget for only one year.
Given the recent strong commitment of the government to safe motherhood, such a recurrent cost burden should not
be a problem.
In addition to the financial sustainability of the project, several of the project design features that focus on changing
demand and involve community participation are likely to enhance the sustainability of the proposed interventions.
I................................................................................................................................................................I........I..............................................................................
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                          Risk                   Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
1-The content of MH/RH services is not             Low       Overall content is consistent with the lessons learned
appropriate.                                                 in other countries and information available from
Indonesia
2-Supply and demand interventions are not       Substantial  -Consensus on message content early in the project
synchronized.                                                -Review of annual implementation plans and time
tables by Bank review missions
-Establish coordination team at the local level
3-The Pilot projects are not completed and/or    Moderate    Adequate evaluation and continuing policy dialogue
extended
4-Providing information to adolescents does     Moderate    Risk minimization is beyond the time frame of this
not lead to change in their RH behavior as                   project.
adults.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 17
Country: Indonesia                                                          Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Project components to outputs
Risk                    Risk.Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
MH service
1-The project will not improve the MH/RH  Low         -Ensure that a needs assessment is carried out before
skills of health staff.                                the training and that training content is based on this
assessment;
-Adopt competency-based training approach
2-The financing for emergency obstetric cases Moderate   -Provide adequate technical assistance to ensure
will not be implemented well and/or reach the          design details
poor.                                                 -Carry out study to assess the adequacy of the
targeting approach adopted by the project
-Adequate project supervision
3-IEC will not increase knowledge/ change    Low       BKKBN has a good track record in this area
behavior.
4-Iron tablets will not be consumed.      Moderate    Adequate IEC to inform women of the benefits and
possible side effects
Sustainability of MH services
There is not capacity to implement the pilot   Moderate   -Provide adequate technical assistance to ensure
design details
-Adequate project supervision
Improved quality of FP services
I-Increase in quality does not eventuate  Low         Adopt competency-based training approach
2-Other factors may be more important     Low          Experience with BKKBN to date indicates that
determinants of utilization and quality of MH          quality is the important determinant. Access is
care                                                   already high.
3-Excessive drive for results may lead to  Moderate    Develop quality assurance groups and monitoring
excess social pressure on women and their              indicators based on quality of care that are not target
families and reduce the impact of quality              driven.
improvement measures
Adolescent reproductive health
1-The increase in knowledge does not occur  Moderate   -Review/develop appropriate curriculum
-Adopt a variety of approaches
-Adequate evaluation
2-Other factors are more important       Moderate       - Risk minimization is beyond the time frame of
determinants of reproductive behavior                  this project
Overall project risk rating               Risk Rating
Moderate   -Ensure a mechanism for coordination between
ministries at central and provincial levels is in place
-Ensure strong implementation structure at the
provincial levels
-Strong and frequent supervision, especially in the
first two years
Form_



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 18
Country: Indonesia                                                                    Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
I-The TPC pilot represents a major departure for MOH from previous policy. Even though there is general
support and agreement about the value of the pilot, its implementation may face resistance from health
providers. It is important that the pilot is discussed with those involved at all stages and that arrangements are
made for modifications in the scheme to ensure continued participation.
2-An excessive drive for results with respect to demand generation may lead to excess social pressures on
women and their families to adopt strategies promoted by the project. Ensuring the right message content for
IEC at the onset of the project and informal monitoring during implementation will minimize this risk.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Board Conditions
Establishment of the central project management unit and the provincial project management units with terms
of reference, and respective secretariats staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank. The condition was
fulfilled.
...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Management aspects
The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until completion of the project:
(a) a Central Project Management Unit, in accordance with the terms of reference, staffing and
resources acceptable to the Bank;
(b) a Central Project Secretariat, in accordance with the terms of reference, staffing and resources
acceptable to the Bank;
(c) a Provincial Project Management Unit in each of the Project Provinces, in accordance with the
terms of reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank; and
(d) a Provincial Project Secretariat in each of the Project Provinces, in accordance with the terms of
reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank.
Technical Audits
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 1999, and June 30, 2002 prepare and fumish to the Bank for
comments, the terms of reference for carrying out the technical audits of project implementation; no later than
July 31, 2000, and November 30, 2002, cause such audits to be carried out, in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank; and promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank for comments a copy of such
technical audits.
Monitoring, review, and reporting
1- The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis,
in accordance with the Project performance indicators, the carrying out of the project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b) no later than September 15, in each year, until the completion of the project, furnish to the Bank, a
report in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request integrating: (i) the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) above on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the project during the period preceding the date of the said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project and
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 19
Country: Indonesia                                                               Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and (ii) a
description of Project activities proposed for the next fiscal year;
(c) review with the Bank, by October 31, in each year, until the completion of the project, or such later
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) above and carry out annual
Project implementation review;
(d) at the third annual review, carry out a comprehensive mid-term assessment of project
implementation; and
(e) promptly thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion and
recommendations of the reviews carried out pursuant to subparagraphs (c) and (d) above, and the
Bank views on the matter.
2- Studies will be carried out in accordance with terms of reference and timing acceptable to the Bank; results
of the studies will be furnished to the Bank no later than four months after each study is completed; and that
promptly after the completion of the study GOI will prepare relevant action plans, taking into account the
comments of the Bank on the recommendations of the studies.
3- Training and fellowships will be carried out in accordance with programs and implementation timetables
acceptable to the Bank.
4-In carrying out the BDD pilots of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) no later than March 1, 1998, furnish to the Bank for comment the draft model for TPC contracts;
promptly thereafter revise such model taking into account the Bank's comments; and, thereafter,
enter into TPC contracts with BDDs on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about
June 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities of the
Project during the period preceding the date of the said report and setting out measures to ensure the
efficient carrying out of such Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
during the period following such date.
5-In carrying out the interventions on emergency obstetric services, the Borrower shall:
(a) no later than March 1, 1998, furnish to the Bank for review and comments, the MOH guidelines
relating to the provision of emergency obstetric services in the Project Provinces; and, promptly
thereafter, revise and implement the guidelines taking into account the Bank's comments; and
(b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about June
30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities of the Project
during the period preceding the date of the said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of such Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof during the period following such date.
6-In carrying out the IEC activities of the Project, the Borrower shall:
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 20
Country: Indonesia                                                               Project rTile: Safe Motherhood Project
(a) no later than March 1, 1998, establish and, thereafter maintain until completion of the Project, a
central technical committee and provincial technical committees in the Project Provinces, to review
and assess the contents of IEC activities of the Project;
(b) not later than June 30, 1998, cause a technical review to be carried out, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, of the IEC message development and of the implementation plan for the IEC
activities under the Project; and, promptly thereafter, furnish the results of the review to the Bank
for comments; and
(c) not later than December 31, 1998, cause a technical review to be carried out, under terns of
reference acceptable to the Bank, of the IEC strategy and its implementation; and promptly
thereafter, furnish the results of the review to the Bank for comments.
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
0 This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
jZ [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies with all
other applicable Bank policies.]                     -
_____ _                       _    _                                                       2 - '
Task Maager: Fadia Saadah                              Country Director": Richard A. Calkins (Acting)
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 21
Country: Indonesia                                                                     Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 1
Safe Motherhood: A Partnership and Family Approach
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary            Key Performance       Monitoring and         Critical Assumptions and Risks
Indicators          Supervision
CAS Objective                                                                (CAS Objective to Bank Mission)
Enhancing human resource                                                     There are no "disconnects" between CAS
development through investment                                               objectives and Bank mission.
projects and advice aimed at
improving the quality of health
services and strengthening capacity.
Project Development Objectives                                               (Development Objectives to CAS
Objective)
To improve maternal health (MH)                                              Assumptions:
status and reduce maternal mortality                                        Increased consumption of MH/ RH
and morbidity through:                                                       services will improve maternal health
status
(1) Improving utilization of quality   % increase in    Special surveys; HIS   1-the content of MH/RH services is not
MH services                       deliveries assisted by   reporting forms   appropriate.
BDDs, and by trained                       2-supply and demand interventions are
health providers                           not synchronized.
3-the pilot projects are not extended.
mid-term: at least 20%                     4-providing information to adolescents
increase                                   does not lead to change in their RH
finalproject: at least                     behavior.
50 % increase
At least 600/D of cases   Hospital records
with obstetric
complications referred
to health facilities
providing emergency
obstetric care.
(2) Strengthening the sustainability  Completion and    Reporting forms
of MH services at the village level.   evaluation of BDD
pilot projects,
especially TPC
contracts
(3) Improving demand for and     % increase in a        Special surveys,
access to family planning (FP)   "quality index" of FP   FPMIS
services                         services
mid-term: at least
20% increase
final project: at least
50% increase
Form_



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 22
Country: Indonesia                                                                       Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
(4) Preparing adolescents to lead  % increase of knowledge   Special surveys
a healthy reproductive life     about RH issues among
adolescents
mid-term: at least 10%
increase
final project: at least 30%
increase
Project Outputs                                                            (Outputs to Development Objectives)
MH services (See Number (I)                                                 Assumptions:
above)                                                                      I-low quality is a critical determinant of low
utilization of services.
Increased technical skills of  % BDDs with basic         Special surveys,    2-price is an important determinant of failure
village midwives (BDDs) for     competencies for         training evaluation  to utilize the referral system.
providing MH services           delivering MH services    forms
Increased technical skills of  % of HC hospital staff    Special surveys,    3-increased knowledge about signs of
health center (HC) and hospital   with basic competencies   training evaluation  obstetric emergency will lead to increased
staff for providing MH services   for delivering MH      forms              utilization of the referral system.
services
Increased utilization of referral    % of cases with ON  HIS, Population    4-iron is the limiting nutrient in maternal
services for obstetric and      complications who are    enumeration data,  anemia.
neonatal (ON) emergencies       referred to emergency    and maternal/
services in a timely     prenatal audits
manner
Improved quality and           Improved management    Hospital and HC    Risks:
management of emergency ON    of EOC                     records, maternal   I-the project will not improve the MH/RH
care at HC and hospitals                                 and prenatal audits  skills of health staff.
2-the financing of emergency obstetric
Reduce cost barriers to the     % of pre-welfare (poor)   HIS, Population   services will not eventuate.
referral system                 cases with ON            enumeration data,  3-the lEC will not increase knowledge.
complications who are    maternal/prenatal   4-the iron tablets will not be consumed.
referred to emergency    audits
services covered by the
project
Increased knowledge about      % increase in knowledge   Special surveys
danger signs during pregnancy    about danger signs and
and other MH conditions         other MH conditions
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 23
Country: Indonesia                                                                       Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Increased coverage of iron        % of adolescents and    Special surveys
supplementation among adolescents,  women of
non-pregnant and pregnant women   reproductive ages
receiving iron
supplementation
Assessment of magnitude of STDs    Carry out STD surveys  Special surveys
in project provinces and options for   and operations
service delivery for STD          research
management and treatment
Sustainability of MH services(see                                           Assumption:
number (2) above)                                                           there is the capacity to implement and
evaluate the pilot
Implement pilot projects for       # of pilot projects   Project            Risks
alternative financing of BDDs as   implemented           management         There is no capacity to implement the pilot
private providers                                        records
Improved quality of FP services (see                                        Assumptions:
number (3) above)                                                           low quality of family planning services is a
critical determinant of side effects from
Increased technical skills of FP  % of providers with    Special surveys,    contraceptives and drop-out rates.
providers (doctors, midwives,     "adequate" skills for    training
BDDs)                              providing FP services   evaluation forms
Improved counseling skills of FP  % of providers with    Special surveys,    Risks:
providers, field workers, and cadres   adequate "counseling   training      I-Increase in quality does not eventuate
skills                evaluation forms
Implementing a monitoring system    # of service delivery    Project        2-Other factors may be more important
for monitoring of FP services     points that monitor    management         determinants of utilization
quality of services   records            3-Excessive drive for results may limit the
effect on quality improvement measures
Improved awareness of side effects   % FP users with     Special surveys
and complications of FP services  knowledge about side
effects and
complications of the
method they are using
Adolescent reproductive health                                              Assumption:
(ARH) (See number (4) above)                                                1 -knowledge is an important factor
determining healthy reproductive behavior in
Assessment of service needs for   Completion of the      Special surveys    adolescents
ARH                               assessment
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 24
Country: Indonesia                                                                   Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Development and                  # and coverage of    Project           2-improved knowledge during adolescence
institutionalization of ARH      programs developed    management       will lead to healthy reproductive behavior
programs                                              records           during both adolescence and adult life.
Project          Risks:
Increased counseling services for    ft of service delivery    management  I-the increase in knowledge does not occur
adolescents                      points that provide  records
counseling
Evaluating alternatives for      Completion of evalua-  Project         2-other factors are more important
providing RH services and        tion of alternative  management        determinants of reproductive behavior.
education                        approach for         records, technical
addressing ARH needs  audits
Project Components                                                      (Components to Outputs)
[See Annex 2 for a detailed                                             Assumptions:
description.]                                                           I-the provinces have the capacity to design
and implement the components
Provincial Components                                                   2-the central units have the capacity to
1. Improving maternal health status.                                    provide the technical support, policy and
utilization and sustainability of MH                                    research, and monitoring and evaluation
services
IA.A Demand for MHservices                                              3-adequate coordination between the
ministries will occur
Develop/implement IEC messages    # of target audiences    Reporting system   Risls:
for MH conditions at the individual,  reached                           I-the provinces do not have the capacity to
household and community levels                                          design and implement the components
2-the central units do not have the capacity to
Develop/implement IEC program    # of villages reached    Reporting system   provide the technical support, policy and
for supporting BDD program                                              research, and monitoring and evaluation
3-adequate coordination between the
Prepare household and community    % of HH and        Population        ministries will not eventuate
plans for management of emergency  community plans    enumeration;
ON cases                         prepared             Information
system
Develop/implement IEC campaigns  # of communities     Reporting system
for community mobilization to   reached
provide and organize referral
services
I1. BSupplv of MH services
Training of BDDs                 # of BDDs trained    Reporting system
Training of HC staff             # of HC staff trained    Reporting system
Training of hospital/blood bank  # of hospital staff  Reporting system
staff                           trained
Formn



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 25
Country: Indonesia                                                                    Projec Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Develop/implement Standard       SOPs developed and    Reporting system
Operating Procedures (SOPs) for  staff trained to use
emergency ON care                them
Procurement of medical equipment   % of equipment      Reporting system
procured
Provide funds for emergency      Availability of funds    Reporting system
obstetric services at the provincial    at the provincial level;
levels                           utilization of the funds
Revise guidelines for health     Complete new          Reporting system
providers for anemia control among   guidelines;
adolescents and non-pregnant     disseminate to staff
women
I C. Strenzghenin QfBDDs
Prepare contracting arrangements    # of contracts prepared  Reporting system
for the different pilots for BDD  for BDDs (by type)
sustainability
II. Improve quality of family
plannin services
Train FP providers to improve their   # of FP providers  Reporting system
technical skills                 trained on technical
skills
Train FP providers on counseling  # of FP providers    Reporting system
trained on counseling
Develop quality assurance system  Monitoring system    Reporting system
developed
Develop/implement IEC to increase   # of target groups  Reporting system
demand for quality FP services   reached
III. Prepare adolescents to lead a
healthy reproductive life
Carry out ARH needs assessment    Complete the         Reporting system
assessment
Conduct parent education         # of parents reached    Reporting system
Incorporate ARH into family life  ARH incorporated in   Reporting system
education (FLE) program in school  the school health
health                           curriculum
Incorporate FLE program into out-   ARH incorporated in   Reporting system
of-school program                the out-of-school
program
Provide support to NGOs and      # of community        Reporting system
community institutions to provide    groups and NGOs
education and counseling for     provided with support
adolescents                      for ARH                .
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                  Page 26
Country: Indonesia                                                                     Project ritle: Safe Motherhood Project
Central Component
I. Technical support and training
Develop in-service training strategy   Strategy developed  Reporting system
for BDDs
Develop IEC strategy for generating  IEC strategy       Reporting system
demand for MH services (including   completed
promoting BDDs as private
providers)
Develop monitoring tools for      Monitoring tool       Reporting system
improving quality of FP services  developed
Development of curriculum for     Curriculum for ARH    Reporting system
ARH                               developed
Training and manpower             # of staff trained    Reporting system
development in MH and RH
Provide TA to the provinces       # of requests for TA  Reporting system
from provinces;
response rate of the
center
II. Policy and research
Policy studies regarding BDD      # of studies completed  Reporting system
sustainability
Study on other RH issues          Completed assessment  Reporting system
of cervical cancer
needs
Review of pre-service training needs  Complete the review    Reporting system
for BDDs
Other related studies and
dissemination efforts
III. Monitoring and evaluation
Baseline and follow-up surveys   # of completed         Reporting system
surveys within 3
months of planned
dates
Analysis of secondary data        % of indicators that    Reporting system
are adequately
analyzed
Rapid assessments
Project Management
Supervision; monitoring          # of supervision visit   Reporting system
Technical audits                  % of outputs reviewed   Reporting system
Coordination                      # of coordination     Reporting system
meetings
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 27
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 2
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Detailed Project Description
INTRODUCTION
Indonesia's maternal mortality remains a cause of concern. One in 89 women of reproductive age die of maternal
causes. The high maternal mortality ratio (MMR) -- estimated at 390 per 100,000 livebirths -- is indicative of a
larger burden of disease due to reproduction. Women also suffer from non life-threatening but debilitating
reproduction-related morbidities, including anemia, infections, and other obstetric complications. Addressing the
burden of reproductive health problems benefits the large segment of women in their reproductive ages and beyond,
as well as the health and welfare status of other family members.
The high MMR and poor maternal health status are indicative of under-consumption of maternal health services.
There are several explanations for the sub-optimal consumption of maternal health and safe motherhood services -
Demand side:
> cultural norms and traditional values limit demand
> prices of services limit demand by certain population groups, especially the poor
Supply side:
> SM services may not available (BDD may not stay in village, may not be available at certain times,
emergency services may not be available etc.)
0 Quality of services and their effectiveness may not be adequate.
The proposed provincial project addresses these constraints. The main features of the project concept are:
*  a demand driven approach that takes into account the social, cultural and economic determinants of safe
motherhood as well as service delivery and supply factors. This approach will focus at the individual, family
and community levels.
*  a partnership approach among the different public, private and NGO agencies with an interest in safe
motherhood. The exact format of a partnership and the relative contribution of the different partners will be
determined at the district and province levels, depending on the local needs and conditions.
* addressing supply-side constraints to service delivery and sustainability of maternal health services. Special
emphasis is given to the sustainability of the village midwives, the linchpin of safe motherhood services at the
village level.
*  maintaining demand and preparing the cohort which will enter the reproductive ages by addressing reproductive
health needs of the adolescents.
*  finally, addressing the diversity in local needs and conditions by adopting district and province specific
interventions. Such an approach can determine the right mix of interventions needed as well as the key
stakeholders and partners who may be involved in implementation in a specific location, Thus, project activities
will be grouped into two main components, provincial and central.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 28
Country: Indonesia                                                        Project Title: Safe Motherhood Projed
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The project would assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI) to improve maternal health status, reduce mortality and
morbidity, through a partnership and family approach, in selected districts in two provinces (East and Central Java)
through
* Improving quality and utilization of maternal health services;
* Strengthening the sustainability of maternal health services at the village level;
* Improving quality of family planning services; and
* Preparing adolescents to lead a healthy reproductive life.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Project activities will be grouped into two components: Provincial (to be carried out in East Java, Central Java) and
Central components. The provincial components will be managed and implemented by the province and district
level teams. Below is a brief description of the objectives and main activities for the different components.
Provincial components -- (total base costs = East Java US$ 18.3 million; Central Java US$ 17.8 million)
The provincial components will include three sub-components, responding to the main project objectives:
Sub-component 1: Improving maternal health (MH) status, utilization and sustainability of MH services (total
base costs: US$ 11.2 million for East Java; US$ 11.4 million for Central Java) to include efforts to:
* increase demand for MH services.
* improve the supply of MH services; and
*  strengthen sustainability of MH services at the village level.
1 (a) Increasing demandfor MHservices. This part of the project aims at improving the knowledge, attitudes and
behavior regarding maternal health at the individual, family and community levels. In order to achieve these
objectives, the project will establish an IEC technical and coordination committees at the central and provincial
levels to review and assess the content of the IEC messages and ensure coordination between supply and demand-
side interventions. These committees will have members from BKKBN, MOH, professional groups and so forth.
Key activities included in this sub-component include:
* carrying out formative research
* identification of IEC messages
* carry out communications campaigns to support project interventions including:
=> increased knowledge of families and communities of danger signs
=> mobilization of the community to support MH services, especially emergency care and transport
> the role of BDDs as private providers; and
> strengthened political commitment for reproductive and maternal health issues.
The project would finance studies for the review and development of key messages, consultancies for development
of communications strategy, media packages and materials, and training.
I. (b) Improving supply of MH services. The objective is to improve supply of maternal health services, especially
at the village level through: improving quality of MH services at the village level, strengthening the referral system,
improving quality of emergency care (including blood supply) and reducing cost barriers to referral services to the
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 29
Country: Indonesia                                                               Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
poor. Specific health outcomes targeted include maternal mortality, maternal complications, anemia, infections, as
well as tetanus and mortality in neonates. Key activities supported by this sub-component include:
*  In-service training of village midwives (BDDs)
*  In-service training of health center and hospital staff
*  Developing/implementing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for emergency obstetric and neonatal (ON)
care
*  Procurement of medical equipment
*  Revising and implementing guidelines for health providers for anemia control among adolescents and non-
pregnant women.
*  Carrying out STD/RTI surveillance and operations research on the delivery of needed services through primary
health care services.
In support of these activities, the project would finance training, medical equipment, surveys and research,
instructional materials, workshops, consultant services.
In addition, the project will develop and test options for financing of referral services by reimbursing hospitals and
other health care facilities providing emergency obstetric care for providing such services to needy patients referred
by BDDs. This would remove an important financial obstacle to access by the poor to emergency obstetric care and
will contribute to establishing BDDs as successful private providers by legitimizing their role in access to financial
protection for their clients. The funds will reimburse health centers, clinics and public as well as private hospitals.
Funds will cover cost of drugs and medical supplies provided to the patients, and the standard rates applicable to
level IllI type accommodation at public hospitals. The funds will not reimburse the cost of emergency transport to
the hospital, this will be each village's responsibility. In order minimize misuse of these funds, MOH has prepared
draft guidelines for provincial and district level staff. The guidelines include a clear definition of the type of
condition to be covered, the target group, prices, eligible providers and marketing strategy. As for defining the poor
and needy patients, the project will use the existing classification provided by the family enumeration data.
Moreover, a targeting study, that will be carried out in the first year of the project, will provide further criteria to
identify the eligible target group for emergency obstetric services financed by the project.
(c) Strengthening sustainability of maternal health services at the village level. The objective of this part of the
project is to identify options to (a) sustain the village midwives (BDDs) as providers of health services at the village
level; and (b) assist them to be become private providers by developing alternative contracting and financing
schemes for BDDs. This will be supplemented by strengthening the technical skills of BDDs (see part (b) above),
increasing demand for BDD services (see part (a) above) and increasing their access to credit to develop their
private practice. A brief description of these activities follows.
Pilot Models of promoting BDD sustainability.
I. Group Midwifery Practice Models: The project will encourage the formation of group practices (i.e., practices
in which more than one midwife works), building on the established private practices of senior midwives. Most of
these group practices will be established at the subdistrict level. Several alternative models will be piloted under the
project, these include:
* Model 1: Model Clinics for On-the-Job Training: the project will assist senior midwives to develop enlarged
practices where BDD can work for a month or two each year to acquire additional on-the-job training.
* Model 2: Group Practices with BDD Employees: the senior midwife will employ BDDs to deliver services to
one or more villages.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 30
Country: Indonesia                                                               Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
* Model 3: Franchised Clinics: this model will combine one doctor, one or more midwives, and one or more
nurses in a practice which provides comprehensive primary health care, including maternity care. The
franchised clinics would give the BDD an opportunity to obtain training in a broader range of services such as
those they routinely provide in their villages. Once established, the franchised clinics would be in a position to
provide training to BDD (similar to Model I above) or to contract with MOH directly to provide BDD services
to unserved villages (similar to Model 2).
II. Targeted Performance-based Contracts This pilot attempts to identify alternative contracting schemes for BDDs
that can help establish them as private providers. The project recognizes that some villages are too poor to sustain a
purely private BDD and even in those villages that can support a private BDD mechanisms for ensuring continuing
access to her services on the part of the poor are needed. The existing BDD contract pays a uniform salary to all
BDD in a given area to provide a rather loosely defined set of services to all village residents, regardless of the size
or socioeconomic characteristics of the villages. In addition to receiving their fixed salary, the BDD currently
charge their clients fees for providing a variety of services. The additional income they receive is a function of
many factors, including their own efforts and success in developing a client base; but it is clearly also related to the
villagers' ability to pay and to the size of the village. As a result, the total income earned by BDD varies
significantly from village to village even within a given district. In their efforts to supplement their government
salaries in their private practices it is likely that some BDD fail to provide basic MCH and family planning services
to the poor, who are less able to pay for services.
The alternative contract mechanism would compensate the BDD as private providers for delivering a clearly-
defined package of services to the poor as well as a more limited set of "public good" services to the entire village
(i.e., essential public health services, such as health education and counseling, for which charging an individual fee
is impractical). This new contract, which is called a Targeted Performance-based Contract, or TPC, is expected to
have the following advantages over the existing contract: it is designed to be more equitable for the BDD, is
designed to be more equitable for the villagers, would be performance-based and therefore encourage greater
efficiency, and MOH will be able to save money.
In addition, the project will support BDDs' efforts to become private providers by providing limited financial
support to help midwives establish private practice in the pilot areas. Studies to monitor and evaluate these pilots
will also be carried out.
Sub-component 2. Improving quality of family planning services (total base costs: US$ 4.7 million for East Java;
US$ 3.9 million for Central Java) to include the following activities:
* improving counseling and interpersonal communications skills;
* improving technical competence of service providers (doctors, midwives, and BDDs) for providing family
planning services;
* strengthening family planning referral system;
* strengthening the quality of family planning service delivery through the provision of essential
equipment/supplies;
* developing and implementing client-oriented IEC programs to increase demand for quality services;
* developing and implementing quality assurance programs for family planning services;
It also includes campaigns to increase awareness about side effects and complications due to family planning and
developing tools for monitoring quality of family planning services. Activities financed by the project include
training and workshops, development of IEC strategy and media packages, and consulting services.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 31
Country: Indonesia                                                                Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Sub-component 3. Preparing adolescents to lead healthy reproductive lives (total base cost US$ 1.9 million for
East Java; US$ 1.9 million for Central Java) to include the following activities:
* Assessing need for education and counselling services for adolescents. This includes: in-depth needs
assessment; strengthening adolescents counselling and services (especially through NGOs); pilot efforts for
testing alternative models for delivering adolescent counselling and services.
* Increasing knowledge of key reproductive health issues among adolescents. This involves:
=> strengthening commitment among partner organizations at the central/provincial/district levels to
implement program
=> conducting the parent education programs on adolescents reproductive health
> institutionalising adolescent reproductive health education through the educational system. This
involves:
> incorporation of family life education (FLE) into school health (Core Program) in junior and
senior high schools
> incorporating FLE in out-of-school program and in religious schools
=> implementing adolescent reproductive health education through community institutions, e.g., through
youth clubs, women's organisations and NGOs
= providing information, education and communications campaigns on adolescent reproductive health
issues through mass media
In addition, the project will direct special attention to testing the different alternatives and models for addressing
adolescent reproductive health needs. These activities are included under the sub-component on Monitoring and
Evaluation under the central level activities.
Central Level Component (total base cost = US$ 15.6 million)
The central level activities are of three main types: technical support and training, policy and research, and
monitoring and evaluation. The identification of these activities was based on an assessment of support needed for
the provincial and district level activities.
I-Technical Support and training In order to implement the different programs and interventions, the provinces need
technical assistance to carry out a number of functions. These include: development of training strategies and
guidelines for BDDs, development of new IEC strategies, developing curricula for adolescent reproductive health,
and providing technical support to the provinces/districts. The central level units of the different executing agencies
need to provide the provinces with the needed assistance. Where the required support is not available from the
central units, technical assistance will be recruited to carry out the specific functions. In addition the central level
activities include limited support for local and overseas fellowships in areas directly related to project objectives
II-Policy, research. and evaluation This sub-component includes policy related studies like midwifery training
strategy; studies on the sustainability of village midwives program; assessment of reproductive health needs and
programs, carrying out of baseline and follow-up surveys, rapid assessments and special evaluation studies, data
analysis, dissemination workshops and technical assistance for implementing the monitoring and evaluation
activities of the project.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 32
Country: Indonesia                                                        Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 3
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Estimated Project Costs
By Project Component
Project Component                                          Local       Foreign     Total
-             Us$ 000-
A. East Java component
A. I. Improving MH status, utilization and sustainability of MH  8,129   3,073     11,202
services
I.a. Increasing demand for MH services               4,635         1,730     6,365
I.b. Improving supply of MH services                  743           191       934
I.c .Strengthening MH services at village level      2,751         1,152     3,903
A. II. Improving quality of family planning services       3,406         1,293     4,699
A. III. Preparing adolescents to lead a healthy reproductive life  1,486   399      1,885
A. IV. Project administration                                441           109       550
Subtotal East Java                                        13,462         4,874    18,336
B. Central Java component
B. I. Improving MH status, utilization and sustainability of MH  8,300   3,115     11,415
services
I.a. Increasing demand for MH services               4,776         1,755     6,531
I.b. Improving supply of MH services                  743           191       934
I.c Strengthening MH services at village level       2,781         1,169     3,950
B. II. Improving quality of family planning services       2,781         1,138     3,919
B. III. Preparing adolescents to lead a healthy reproductive life  1,480  403       1,883
B. IV. Project administration                                441           109       550
Subtotal Central Java                                     13,002         4,765    17,767
C. Central Level
C. I.. Technical support/training                          4,952         3,289     8,241
C. II. Policy, research and evaluation                     4,231         1,576     5,807
C. III. Project administration                             1,260          328       1,588
Subtotal Central level                                    10,443         5,193    15,636
Total Baseline Cost                                       36,907        14832    51132
Physical Contingencies                               1,845          742      2,587
Price Contingencies                                  6,838          766      7,604
Total Project Cost                                        45,590        16.340    6193Q
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 33
Country: Indonesia                                                         Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 3
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Estimated Project Costs
By Expenditure Category
Local        Foreign       Total
-US---------*--US $ '000---
Expenditure Categories
Investment Costs
Equipment                                          1,226           1,838       3,064
Vehicles                                              58             10          68
IEC & Instructional Materials                      8,039          3,445       11,484
Technical assistance                               1,870          1,835        3,705
Training and Workshops                            11,640          2,054       13,694
Fellowships
Local                                         623            110         733
Overseas                                        -           1,959       1,959
Evaluation and research                            4,128          1,769        5,897
Demographic health survey (DHS)                    1,190            210        1,400
Financial support for BDDs                          331              58         389
BDD pilots                                         1,872            331       2,203
Civil works/furniture                               286              50         336
Project administration                              992             175        1167
Subtotal investment cost                                32,255          13,844      46,099
Recurrent Costs
Emergency obstetric services                       3,997            706       4,703
Monitoring and supervision                          655             282         937
Subtotal recurrent cost                                  4,652             988       5,640
otal Base Costs                                         36.907          14,832      51,739
Physical Contingencies                             1,845            742        2,587
Price Contingencies                                6,838            766        7,604
Total Project Costs                                     45,590          16,340      61.930
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 34
Country: Indonesia                                                              Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 4
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Economic Analysis
I.    The economic analysis presented in this annex covers following topics: (i) linkage to the CAS; (ii) benefits;
(iii) rationale for public sector investment in safe motherhood/maternal health services; (iv) constraints facing a
government response to safe motherhood/maternal health issues; (v) analysis of alternatives; (vi) cost-effectiveness
analysis; (vii) fiscal impact and sustainability; (viii) impact on the health system; (ix) institutional assessment; (x)
poverty assessment; and (xi) performance indicators.
I. Linkage to CAS
2.     The project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (13988-IND dated February
27, 1995 and updated on June 4, 1996). The CAS stresses the key themes of human resource development,
improving quality of services, and promoting poverty reduction by increasing access to basic services and enhancing
sustainability. This project will:
* improve health services, especially for the poor. Improved maternal health will have a positive impact on the
overall health of women and their families and thus have a significant impact on human resource development
in the country. Special emphasis is placed in the project design on increasing access to and use of matemal
health services by the poor.
* improve quality of services. The project emphasizes local specificity in project design, improving the skills of
the relevant providers, especially BDDs, and strengthening the quality of maternal health services at the village
level.
* enhance sustainability. Through a series of well designed pilot efforts, strategies to enhance sustainability of
maternal health services will be developed, tested and implemented through the project.
II. Benefits
3.     The Burden of Disease (BOD) due to maternal and reproductive causes is considerable, especially in women
of reproductive age. The estimated BOD for these causes in women 15-44 years in the "Other Asia and Islands"
region (of which Indonesia is the most populous member) is shown in Table 1. Approximately one-third of the total
disease burden of women in this age group (measured in Disability Adjusted Life Years or DALYs) is due to
maternal and reproductive causes. Of the burden due to reproductive and maternal causes, two-thirds are due to
disability and one-third to death. Whilst these data are indicative of the situation in the region as a whole, the higher
maternal mortality in Indonesia compared to the rest of the region suggests that burden due to maternal and
reproductive causes may also be higher.
4.     This high burden of disease due to maternal and reproductive causes underpins the entry point of this
project, which is that the consumption of safe motherhood and reproductive health services in Indonesia are less
than socially optimal. It also provide a gross estimate of the potential for benefits to be derived from a project which
aims to improve maternal and reproductive health. Many of these benefits are private
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                Page 35
Country: Indonesia                                                                                Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Table 1. Burden of Disease due to Selected Maternal and Reproductive Health Conditions
Other Asia and Islands Region - Females 15-44 Years
Condition                      DALYS due to                 DALYS due to   TOTAL DALYS                           % Due to
Disability                    Death                                           Disability
I. STDs                         1,241                             10                   1,251                             99%
II. Maternal Conditions         2,378                         1,855                   4,233                              56%
III. Tetanus                         0                            19                      19                              0%
IV. Anemia                       7,34                            72                     806                              91%
V. Cervical Cancer                 29                           1,29                     158                             18%
VI. Breast Cancer                   20                          1,34                     154                             13%
VII. Uterus/Ovary                    9                           82                       91                             10%
Total                           4,411                         2,301                   6,712                              66%
All Causes                     12,570                        10,096                  22,666
Murray & Lopez, WHO, 1994
Table 2. Illustrative estimation of rate of returns based on selected interventions
over a 30 years period - Indonesia
Assumptions  Maternal deaths averted                                 Anemia                          Rate of return
Coverage              Prob. of retaining
non-anemic status
Model 1                      40%                         50%                        25%                         15%
Model 2                      65%                          50%                        25%                        17%
Model 3                      20%                         50%                         25%                        14%
Model 4                      40%                         60%i                        25%                        17%
Model 5                      40%                          ?0%                       25%                         19%
Model 6                      40%                         50%                         15%                        11%
Model 7                      40%                          50%                       35%:                        19%
These figures were calculated based on the following assumptions:
-The project will be implemented for five years;
-The project will cover 10 districts in the first 2 years of the project with a total population size of 7 million
-The CBR is about 20 per 1000 population through out the project implementation period;
-Maternal mortality rate is about 390 per 100,000 live births
-Interventions to reduce maternal mortality can achieve up to 67% decrease in maternal deaths (results from the Matlab);
-Children born to mothers who suffer a maternal deaths have a 70% chance of dying in the first 2 years of life;
-Prevalence of anemia among WRAG is 65% & efficacy of anemia control program is about 80%;
-The wage rate is the average rural wage rate for females;
-About 80% of total project cost was considered in the calculations (that is likely to be an overestimate) and they are spread according to the project
disbursement estimates over the five years of imptementation;
-Controlling anemia is likely to result in a 1% increase in productivity (a likely underestimate).
-Probability of survival over a 30 year period for the age group 25-34 years is 0.875 and from birth to age 30 is 0.862 (based on the life table
estimates).
Fonn



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 36
Country: Indonesia                                                          Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
and accrue to the women themselves. In addition, improved maternal and reproductive health has considerable
externalities through benefits to their families of the women concerned, and to their immediate communities. There
are also broader public benefits from decreased maternal mortality and improved reproductive health.
5.    There are direct private benefits to the individual woman as a result of improved health (averted mortality
and morbidity) which, apart form improved well-being, may also result in improved income in cash and in kind. A
reduction in anemia, for which the prevalence rates among women of childbearing age in Indonesia is high (65
percent), improves productivity. Similar gains can be expected from control of other highly prevalent reproduction-
related infections.
6.    In addition, it is primarily mothers who care for, nourish and teach young children at home. They are often
responsible for the care of other members of the family as well. Most women of childbearing age also help support
the family through production of subsistence or cash crops or other remunerative work, such as in service
occupations and small scale industry. The loss of a mother, or a decrease in her caring ability through morbidity,
mean a loss of income and care for the whole family.
7.    For example, studies in other countries have shown that the survival prospects of children of women who die
are greatly decreased. Thus, in Bangladesh the probability of a child dying within 2 years after their mother's death
depended on the age of the child at the time their mother died. For neonates the probability of dying within 2 years
was 0.7, for those between 1-12 months it was 0.3 and for those 1-4 years old at the time the probability of dying the
next 2 years was approximately 0.05. There are no similar data of Indonesia but the probability of dying and the
trend with age are likely to be similar. Conversely, the survival prospects of children of healthier mothers are
increased in both direct and indirect ways. Better nourished and healthier mothers are less likely to have low
birthweight babies. The offspring of mothers who are not anemic are less likely to be anemic. Control of malaria
during pregnancy increases birthweight. Protecting the mother against tetanus also confers protection on the unborn
infant. Overall, improved maternal survival and reduced morbidity improves child health as well.
8.    There are similar benefits to be gained from raising the quality of family planning services. Improved
quality of family planing services will reduce the level of morbidity from the various contraceptive methods
themselves as well as reducing the likelihood of unwanted pregnancies and the associated risk of maternal mortality.
Improved child spacing results in healthier mothers and children.
9.    Educating and counseling of adolescents in reproductive health issues can be expected to reduce the level of
morbidity and mortality resulting from reproduction in the adolescent period and in later life as well. Adolescents
who become pregnant have much higher levels of maternal mortality and morbidity than women in their 20s. They
are frequently ill-prepared for parenting with the result that their children also have a higher risk of morbidity and
mortality. Teenage pregnancy is often a cause for leaving school and/or for seeking unsafe abortion. Young people
usually account for a high proportion of STD infections, including HIV. Thus, specific benefits to be realized from
education and counseling of adolescents in reproductive health include a delay in the age at first birth; reduction in
maternal morbidity and mortality; increased probability of school continuation; improved parenting ability; a
decreased need for, and negative consequences of; unsafe abortion; and reduced incidence of STDs and HIV.
10.   In addition, this project will pilot schemes for improving the attractiveness and sustainability of employment
as a BDD. More sustainable long term incomes will have considerable private benefits for the BDDs included in the
scheme and for the health of the village populations they serve.
11.   The public benefits from this project are also considerable. They derive from reduced costs of medical and
custodial care, the decreased costs to society of care of the children of mothers who have died, and increased
retention of girls in school. Finally, a substantial share of the project's costs involve investments in developing
training materials and systems which will be applied to otlher areas of the country at much lower cost. Should the
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 37
Country: Indonesia                                                                      Project Ite: Safe Motherhood Project
pilot scheme for improving the sustainablity of the BDD be successful it will result in reduced cost to the public
purse for this category of health worker.
12.    Thus, overall, there are considerable public and private benefits to be expected from this project. In
principle, translation of these effects into benefits to which can be assigned monetary values would allow
comparison with the costs of the intervention. Unfortunately, the lack of field trials that quantify the various benefits
limits the application of cost-benefit analysis. However, some illustrative calculations for Indonesia (using estimates
indicators from the project areas) based on the effect of reduced maternal and neonatal mortality and control of
anemia have been made. Under assumptions that two-fifths of the maternal deaths, and 70 percent of the neonatal
deaths associated with them, will be averted and modest assumptions about the success of the anemia control efforts,
the IRR is 17 percent. Because the number of maternal and neonatal deaths involved is small and the prevalence of
anemia in women of childbearing age high (65 percent), this estimate is insensitive to assumptions about the effect
on deaths and sensitive to assumption about the coverage, efficacy and long-term effect on anemia. Under a range of
assumptions about these effects (see Table 2) the IRR varies between 12 percent and 20 percent.
13.    However, as indicated above, the overall benefits from this project reach far beyond the reduction in
maternal mortality and anemia control. They include a range of other private and public benefits and significant
externalities. Overall, it is clear that the benefits of this project would considerably exceed the cost.
111. Why should the public sector invest in safe motherhood/maternal health services?
14.    The main reasons why Government should consider investing in this project relate to overcoming market
failures and poverty alleviation.
15.    The first type of market failure relates to the uncertainty and incomplete information regarding maternal
health issues2. The private market is not providing and is not likely to provide the needed information. The main
reason for the failure to provide information relates mainly to the nature of maternal deaths that, despite the high
rates in Indonesia, remains a rare event. An example is helpful to illustrate the problem. In a typical Javanese
district, a village of average size (3,000 inhabitants) would experience, on average, a maternal death once every five
years. Thus, it is not possible for the average family or community to develop a formative track record based on
which they can make informed decisions. In addition, the etiology of maternal health conditions leading to a
maternal health complex and does not lend itself to a simple cause/effect relationship. Added to these two factors is
the relatively recent experience of many rural areas in Indonesia with tertiary health care -- it is only in the last two
decades that hospital care has become accessible to the majority of the rural population. As a result of the
complexity, limited number of deaths observed in any particular community, and the recent (and not always
positive) experience with the tertiary health care, normative patters of behavior that can lead to optimal choices by
the consumers have not emerged and traditional norms still prevail. Finally, it is important to note that overcoming
this constraint requires an understanding of the social, cultural and economic factors as well as the health situation.
Otherwise, the isolation of pregnancy and delivery care from the modern health system will persist.
16.    The second type of market failure relates to the private sector. The private providers who perceive maternal
deaths and obstetric emergencies as rare events "fail" to invest in the skills and/or equipment needed for the delivery
2Providing more information and educaitng familie and communitites about mtrernal and reproductive health issues is likely to change their
consumption patters. In fact, data on patterns of utilization of safe motherhood services from the 1993 IFLS and 1994 IDHS show that educated
women exhibit very different patterns of utilization from those of uneducated women. For example, data from the 1993 IFLS indicate that 85
percent of women without any education had their births attended by a traditional birth attendant, compared to only 18 percent of women who had
completed middle school (Serrato and Melnick, 1995). These marked differentials are in contrast to the situation in family planning where, for
example, data from the 1994 DHS indicate that 83 percent of women without any schooling know at least one modem method and where to obtain it
(Central Bureau of Statistics, 1995).
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 38
Country: Indonesia                                                                  Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
of emergency care. So, the perception that maternal obstetric emergencies are not sufficiently remunerative is a
disincentive for the private sector to provide such service except in large settings where the case load might justify
the investment. These are likely to be in urban areas and less likely to be available in remote areas or to the poor.
17.    A third type of market failure that affects maternal health services relates to failure of the rural insurance
systems. Recent studies in Indonesia point to the high cost of emergency care at the hospital as a major constraint to
utilization of these services by women when an emergency occurs3. When families are faced with such emergency
cases, the decision to refer women to emergency care is often delayed or not taken due to the high cost, as well as
perceived low quality, of care. As a result, valuable time is wasted while such a decision is being made and, in many
cases, even if the woman is referred to the hospital, it may be too late. This price constraint affects all but the
richest families, but is most likely to impinge on poor women for whom the Rp 350,000 average cost of a delivery at
the district hospital represents a significant amount of household income. Thus, there is need to provide access to
alternative insurance mechanisms.
18.    Poverty alleviation itself is another important consideration bearing on possible government intervention.
Even if the above market failure did not exist, governments may wish to ensure that such services are provided to
the poor - such a decision has been taken in Indonesia. In the current system, there are few incentives for staff to
provide services to the poor. Poor women are at a higher risk of suffering from a maternal death and are less likely
to be able pay for the high costs of hospital care in cases of medical emergencies. Further, maternal death, a tragedy
in itself, is likely to have more pronounced welfare effects on poor families.
19.    Despite the above rationale, market failure per se is not necessarily a sufficient reason for either government
intervention or ignoring economic analysis. Market failure and welfare loss occur and together may create a clear
gap that should be addressed. However, the constraints facing government need to be examined as well, along with
alternatives for addressing different constraints in a way that maximizes the success of the investment. The next
section examines issues related to government constraints.
IV. What are the constraints facing a government response to safe motherhood/maternal health issues?
20.    The Government of Indonesia has recognized the problem of poor maternal health and high maternal
mortality and has used several initiatives to address these issues. However, these measures have met with only
limited success, and experience points to a number of key lessons regarding government involvement in further
efforts.
21.    Previous safe motherhood initiatives in the 1980s included training of traditional birth attendants and
establishment of maternity huts, neither of which achieved the desired results. More recently, GOI embarked on a
large new initiative -- the village midwife program -- to place a midwife in each village. This program was the
GOI's response to some recognized failures in the system, including lack of access to maternal health services at the
village level and the high cost of tertiary care.
22.    However, the effectiveness of the midwives who have been placed in the villages has also been limited.
Demand for their services at deliveries at the village level is low and little effort has been made to increase it.
BDDs are not well trained and their credibility as health providers was frequently questioned. In addition, the
financial sustainability of this new cadre of health workers is not clear - BDDs have been placed on 3 year
3According to one recent survey of 236 village midwives in 18 districts of Central Java 54 percent of obstetric cases referred to a Hospital refused to
go, with 81 percent of them citing insufficient money as the reason for their refusal (Satoto et al, "Final report: Research on the Implementation of
the Role of Village Midwives in MCH services in Central Java," Diponegoro University, Semarang, 1995.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 39
Country: Indonesia                                                              Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
government contracts (with possible extension to 6) in the expectation that they would become private practitioners
when their contracts finished but many villages are too small and/or too poor to sustain a midwife in private
practice. Many remote villages are unattractive to the midwives who are likely to leave once their contract finishes.
Further, the current system did not provide the incentives for midwives to provide public goods (such as
immunizations), or to provide service to the poor. None of these challenges were addressed by the current system or
its contractual arrangements with BDDs.
23.   At present, GOI has trained more the 55,000 BDDs and by the end of 1997 all should be posted in villages.
The first cohort is about to graduate from their PTT contract. However, while, for the reasons outlined above, there
are serious doubts about the sustainability of the program in its current format, and no alternatives to ensure the
delivery of safe motherhood services have been explored and tested.
24.   In addition, there have been only limited attempts to address the low demand for maternal health services or
to reduce the financial constraints facing families, especially the poor when seeking emergency obstetric care. The
larger supply-driven approach to the maternal health problem and the weakness of the MOH in addressing demand
side constraints have contributed to these limited effects.
25.   It is also important to address some of the institutional constraints to the government response. MOH
controls the large network of public facilitates, trains and deploys midwives and sets related health policies.
However, delivery of public services is inefficient and quality is low. Further, although MOH has community
participation and health education units, their success in generating demand for health services or providing
information to the public has been very limited. At the same time, MOH has been slow to exploit use of the private
sector to deliver services. On the other hand, BKKBN has been a very successful agency at community mobilization
and demand generation for family planning services.
26.   In conclusion, the experience to date with safe motherhood initiatives and with other health sector programs
points to a number of issues that affect the Government's effectiveness in responding to maternal health needs and
the market failures outlined in the pervious section. These include:
*  inadequate capacity of govemment to deploy and supervise a large field staff of public providers, including the
BDDs;
* an incentive structure for government staff which fails to promote improved quality;
* MOH's inability thus far to explore, evaluate and complement alternatives to the current contracting scheme for
BDD;
*  a lack of insurance scheme or similar protective schemes for rare and catastrophic events for the vast majority of
the rural population;
*  priority by BKKBN, in its drive for results, that favors quantity over quality.
27.   In light of this assessment of government constraints and experience to date in Indonesia, discussion now
turns to exploration of the alternatives for delivery of safe motherhood services considered by the project and the
rationale for choices made during project preparation.
V. Analysis of alternatives
28.   During project identification and preparation, the GOI and Bank preparation teams evaluated a number of
different opportunities to address the underconsumption of maternal health and safe motherhood services.
29.    Strategic Directions. The main strategic choices considered in designing the project were: (a) continuing
the current approach adopted by government; (b) emphasizing supply side interventions, with MOH; (c) focusing
Form_



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 40
Country: Indonesia                                                             Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
mostly on demand side interventions, with BKKBN; and (d) working on both supply and demand side interventions
with both ministries and stressing coordination between the two.
30.   The current approach is essentially based on the supply of maternal health services which is the
responsibility of MOH. This involves the provision of services through hospitals, health centers (and sub centers)
and, the recently deployed BDDs. The current outputs and outcomes of this approach are not satisfactory -- a high
proportion of deliveries are still not supervised by trained health personnel and maternal mortality remains
significantly higher than in other similar countries in the region. What are the likely implications of continuing with
the current approach in the short- to medium- term? First, with no clarity about their future, limited demand for
their services and limited clinical skills, a significant proportion of the BDDs are likely to leave the village at the
end of their contract. Moreover, the BDDs placed in remote and poor villages are more likely to leave than those in
less remote and larger villages. Moreover, even if all BDDs stay in the villages, if the demand side issues are not
addressed, the effectiveness of supply-side support are likely to be minimal. Finally, none of the current activities is
addressing the financial constraints that the poor face for obstetric emergency care. Thus, this approach is likely to
be a costly but not very effective option for the government to adopt.
31.   The second alternative that was considered by the project was to assist only MOH, mostly on supply side
interventions. Such a strategic choice would support the school of thought claiming that for safe motherhood and
maternal health, the focus has to be on the supply of maternal health services, in general, and on emergency care, in
particular. This would also be an extension and intensification of the current approach. However, as has been
demonstrated in the MotherCare I pilots in Indonesia, demand factors are critical in the Indonesia context and
supply driven approaches are likely to fail in improving the consumption for safe motherhood services. In fact, the
1994 DHS results show that 70 percent of all women and 83 percent of rural women still deliver at home. Thus,
unless the project reaches these women and their families, it is not likely to change their consumption patterns.
Therefore, the focus on the supply side constraints alone was rejected as a strategic alternative for the project.
32.   The other route that the project could have taken was to support BKKBN, mainly on demand generation
with the expectation that the private sector will respond to the demand-side activities and provide the needed
services. There were several reasons for rejecting this approach. First, given the market failure outlined above
(Section III), the private market was not likely to respond to emergency needs. Second, while there may be
adequate incentives for the private sector to provide some maternal health services (especially those that are not rare
and expensive to maintain), however, this is not a viable option in isolated areas and does not ensure service
availability to the poor. Third, if a minimum set of services is not in place, attempts to create demand may have a
negative effect on utilization. In addition, working solely with BKKBN would have no effect on the supply side
market failures that were affecting consumption of maternal health services.
33.   The reality is further improvement in safe motherhood in Indonesia requires a coordinated approach which
responds to both supply and demand factors. This will require further attention to improving supply, particularly the
skills and sustainability of the BDD and a stronger focus on the reasons for the current lack of demand. Given the
current institutions, this can only be done through both MOH and BKKBN, building on their respective strengths
and putting in place mechanisms which maximize coordination between them. Thus, the main alternative
considered was the one adopted in the project - an approach which provides the basis for a partnership between the
two ministries to deliver a project in which supply and demand are coordinated. The supply side interventions will
concentrate on piloting measures designed to promote the sustainability of BDDs through emphasis on their role as a
private practice provider of safe motherhood services as well as improved quality of services. The demand side
interventions will concentrate on providing more information at the village level about the risks of maternal
morbidity and mortality and the importance of referral plans to allow timely access to obstetric services in cases of
emergency. Finally, this alternative will also place emphasis on adolescents in order to educate them about
parenthood, their own role and the role of the health services in ensuring safe deliveries.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       Page 41
Country: Indonesia                                                                         Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
34.    These four approaches are compared below on various critical variables.
Variable            Current         Demand/        Supply/ MOH        ProjecV Partnership
approach         BKKBN
Village level MH
services (BDDs)
clinical skills      no change        no change       improved          improved
sustainability       no change        no change       no change         improved
private practice     no change        slight increase    no change      increased
Access to referrals  no change        no change       improved          improved
Targeted to the poor   No               No              No                Yes
Demand generation      minimal,         minimal,        minimal,          increased, coordinated
uncoordinated   uncoordinated    uncoordinated
Price constraints to   not included     not included    not included      included
Obstetric emergency care
Adolescent reproductive   not included  partially included  not included  included
health
Consumption of maternal  inadequate    small increase    small increase   increased
health services
Maternal morbidity     no change        small           small             significant improvement
improvement     improvement
Maternal mortality     no change        no change       small             significant improvement
improvement
Fiscal impact         increased        increased        increased         slight increase
sustainability         Low              Low             Low               Medium
Coordination efforts   minimal          minimal         minimal           increased
Overall risk rating    Low              Low             Low               Moderate
VI. Cost Effectiveness Analysis
35.    Cost effectiveness analysis, ideally, would be applied to the different alternatives considered for each of the
project components and would form a part of the information on which a choice of intervention was made.
However, there have been few cost effectiveness analyses of safe motherhood interventions and their individual
components. That is largely due to the difficulty in measuring the impact of interventions on a relatively rare event
such as maternal mortality. Moreover, many of the individual interventions have only recently been adopted on a
wide scale. Thus, there has not been adequate time for long term evaluation of their effectiveness, e.g., adolescents'
reproductive health programs. In addition, many of the innovations and activities involved are new, tailored to the
Indonesian situation and will be initially implemented on a pilot basis, e.g., TPC contracts for midwives. Therefore,
the traditional cost-effectiveness analysis cannot be carried out for this project. In fact, the project is expected to
add to the international lessons learned about maternal health and safe motherhood interventions.
36.    Against this background, and given the measurement problems associated with mortality and the lack of data
to estimate outcome measures ranging across interventions, e.g., DALYs for the project areas, the analysis will
focus on pregnancy as the outcome variable. The proportion of adequately supervised deliveries is used as the
outcome measure. This measure is highly correlated with the expected project benefits, is relatively easy to measure
and can be easily interpreted by staff at the different levels. Table 3 presents a summary of four scenarios
(corresponding to the project alternatives noted above) for a hypothetical population of I million people, with health
indicators similar to those of Indonesia. Cost data were derived from a recent study on costing of safe motherhood
activities in East Java. The incremental cost of the project activities was estimated to be 70 percent of the provincial
level interventions for the different categories of the project (assuming that 30 percent were start-up costs). The
table shows that the project approach is likely to increase the total effectiveness of the services (as measured by
percent increase in supervised deliveries) at a lower unit cost than all other alternatives. It also shows that choosing
a demand-side only approach would have increased both the coverage and unit cost as compared with the current
model. Similarly, the supply side only option would also increase coverage and unit cost. It should be noted that in
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 42
Country: Indonesia                                                               Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
all options, the use of the referral services was kept low. If the supply side model placed more emphasis on the use
of referral services, that is likely to increase the cost significantly.
VII. Fiscal Impact and Sustainability
37.   A major component of the project is designed to test alternative approaches to promoting the financial
sustainability of BDDs. The salaries of the BDD currently absorb about one-third of the MOH personnel budget.
The project will pilot a new type of contract Targeted Performance-based Contracts (TPC) for the BDD which, if
successful, can significantly reduce the recurrent cost burden of the BDD immediately. TPCs are expected to save
the MOH a substantial amount of money over time. With the TPC the BDD are paid to provide a limited range of
"public good" services (e.g., health education) to the entire village together with a supplementary package of basic
health services to the poor. The annual cost of a TPC is estimated to be approximately 67 percent of a regular BDD
salary. At a monthly salary of 250,000 Rupiah (the salary paid to most BDD in the two project provinces), the
estimated annual savings would be $430 per BDD.4
38.   It should be noted that some of the benefits provided to BDDs in the pilot are not expected to be provided to
other BDDs in an expanded TPC program. The purpose of these substantial benefits is to maintain the morale of
BDD in the pilot compared to those not in the pilot, who will be receiving ordinary contract extensions. However,
limited additional investment by the government would be required even in an expanded program to retain the BDD
in the villages and to establish them as successful private providers. The total government investment cost of
converting one BDDs into a private provider is estimated to be $1,351. Based on the estimated annual savings to
the government from the TPC, it would take 3.1 years for the government to recoup these investments (assuming an
average monthly BDD salary of 250,000 Rupiah). Over a 10-year period, this would correspond to an internal rate
of return of 45 percent.
39.   In addition, by targeting most MOH payments to the BDD for services provided to the poor, the TPC should
also lead to reductions in MOH's recurrent expenditures over time, as the proportion of the population who are poor
continues to decline with future development. Accordingly, the TPC provides an "exit strategy" for MOH's support
to the BDD, who will be assisted to become (eventually) self-sustaining private providers.
40.    Another major component of the project (i.e., the financing of referral services) substitutes demand-side
financing for supply-side financing of emergency obstetric services. Because government subsidies for this social
financing scheme are limited to the poor, the recurrent cost burden of this major project activity will also decline
over time, as the proportion of the population requiring such assistance diminishes. The use of demand-side
financing of obstetric emergency services is also consistent with the trend toward self-financing hospitals (unit
swadana), which is a potentially important aspect of the health sector's overall sustainability.
41.    The financing of referral services is expected to cost less than $0.50 per capita5 (including administrative
costs). If expanded to cover the entire rural population, it would cost an estimated $64 million per year (assuming
that the rural population constitute 64 percent of the total), a substantial outlay. However, not all of the cost of
expanding the program has to be borne by the government. The cost of providing coverage to the non-poor could be
borne by private contributions at the village level, along with perhaps half the cost of providing coverage to the
poor. If the poor constitute approximately half the population, this implies that the cost would only be about $16
million, or 1.3 percent of the 1997/98 health budget.
4The amount of potential savings depends directly on the actual level of BDD salaries. For example, at an average monthly salary of 450,000
Rupiah (i.e., the amount paid to BDD who work in remote villages), the estimated annual savings would be $775.
5This is likely to be an overestamte. However, for the purposeof this analysis, it is best to take a more conservative estiamte.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                              Page 43
Country: Indonesia                                                                              Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Table 3. Illustrative effects of different alternatives on the management of pregnancies in a
hypothetical population of 1 million, with comparable indicators to Indonesia
Indicator                           As usual          Demand -side      Supply side-     Project approach
efforts          efforts          (S & D)
Population                                  1000000           1000000          1000000                  1000000
Pregnant women                                26667             26667            26667                    26667
Maternal mortality ratio                      0.0039           0.0039            0.0039                  0.0039
Maternal deaths                                  78                78               78                       78
Maternal complications                          1248             1248             1248                     1248
Neonatal deaths                                  390              390              390                      390
Referral needs                                 2667              2667             2667                     2667
Attendance at delivery
Home - no health provider                       72%              60%               60%                     30%
Home - MW                                       18%              30%               28%                     58%
Polindes                                         2%               2%                2%                      2%
Hospital                                         5%               5%                7%                      7%
HC/clinic                                        3%               3%                3%                      3%
Total                                          100%             100%              100%                    100%
# of "supervised" deliveries                   7467             10667            10667                    18667
% increase in "supervised" deliveries           ref.             43%               43%                    150%
Estimated cost (Rupiah)                   498666667        546666667         586666667               706666667
Costs per intervention                             0       369669120         236020960               494789344
Total cost                                498666667        916335787         822687627               1201456011
Cost per Supervised pregnancy (Rp)            66786             85906            77127                    64364
Cost per Supervised pregnancy (US$)             28.4             36.6              32.8                    27.4
Assumptions:
a/ Attendance at delivery data is based on the 1994 DHS results for rural Indonesia
b/ MMR and NM are based on the 1994 DHS results
c/ Referral needs are estimated at 10% of total pregnancies
d/ Estimated costs were base don the results of the study by Rochjati et.al. (1996).
e/ The average unit costs are: Home (TBA) = Rp 10,000; home with MW = Rp 25,000; Polindes = Rp 40,000;
Health center/clinic = Rp 40,000; hospital = Rp 100,000
f/ The costs include:
direct costs (including technical guidance, counseling, house visits, referrals, care; medical care);
indirect costs (training, supervision, meeting, administration, consultation),
capital and recurrent costs (drugs, nursing, OM, medical supplies, stationary, public utilities, permanent depreciation, fuel)
g/ Additional incremental cost =70% of the total cost for the respective project components
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 44
Country: Indonesia                                                                      Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
42.    Although some of the project's interventions are designed to promote overall health sector sustainability,
other interventions (e.g., training) will clearly impose additional recurrent cost burdens on MOH and BKKBN's
budgets as they are expanded to cover the entire country. These additional costs are necessary in order to improve
the quality of maternal health and family planning services in the public sector. It is estimated that it would cost
approximately $0.30 per capita (701 Rupiah) to reduce the maternal mortality ratio from 425 to 225 per 100,000 live
births.6 Although such an expenditure would be equal to 6.6 percent of total government health expenditures in
1994/95, it would be expected to be phased in over a period of five years or more. During this time, government
health expenditures are projected to grow at a rate of 6-10 percent. Accordingly, the total cost of a safe motherhood
program could be covered by the annual growth in the MOH budget for only one year. Given the recent strong
commitment of the government to safe motherhood, such a recurrent cost burden should not be a problem.
VIII. Impact on the Health System
43.    The project is likely to affect both public and private sector providers of safe motherhood and family
planning services. Public sector providers/facilities include BDDs, health centers and sub-centers (puskesmas,
pustu) and district hospitals. Private sector providers include traditional birth attendants (dukun bayi), private
doctors, midwives, and nurses, and private hospitals. Most private doctors, nurses, and midwives divide their time
between public sector work in the morning and early afternoon and private practices in the late afternoon and
evening. This dual identity of public and private providers complicates an analysis of the impact of the project on
the health system.
The project interventions most likely to affect public and private providers include:
*      supply-side interventions designed to improve the quality of public sector services;
*      interventions designed to transform the village midwives into sustainable private sector providers;
and
*      establishment of province-level financing scheme for emergency obstetric care.
44.    Supply-side interventions include training and, in some cases, equipping public sector providers to improve
the quality of their services. In a typical setting, one would expect such interventions to increase the demand for
public sector services at the expense of private sector services. However, in the case of training, the dual identity of
public and private providers means that the quality of private services would be expected to increase to the same
extent, so that both public and private providers would benefit to the same extent (probably at the expense of
traditional birth attendants and private hospitals). In the case of other supply-side interventions (e.g., purchases of
equipment for health centers, increased availability of medicines and supplies), one would expect increases in
demand to benefit public facilities only (in the absence of providers transferring such items to their private
practices).
45.    Interventions designed to transform the village midwives into sustainable private sector providers could be
expected to effect a number of other providers, both public and private. This is particularly true if, in the absence of
such interventions, midwives would no longer be posted at the village level. Undoubtedly, the health provider most
affected by the presence of a village midwife is the traditional birth attendant (TBA), with whom she most directly
competes. Although BDD have in many cases developed cooperative working relationships with the TBA, which
6 This is a conservatively high estimate of the recurrent cost burden to MOH that is based on the results of the Rochjati et. al. (1996) results. It is
likely that with the introduction of the TPC and social financing interventions discussed above, a significant share of the projected costs would be
covered by private household expenditures. For example, if the TPC is able to reduce the MOH expenditure per BDD by an average of 33 percent,
this would save approximately $. 10 per capita in the MOH budget; and the savings would increase over time as the proportion of the poor continued
to decline. The social financing scheme would have the potential or mobilizing additional private resources.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 45
Country: Indonesia                                                                  Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
include training and supervision, the income earned by the TBA could be adversely affected by the presence of the
BDD. The presence of the BDD also adversely affects competing village-level suppliers of family planning. Other
public and private providers of safe motherhood and family planning services are also probably adversely affected
by the presence of the BDD (e.g., puskesmas, pustu, private doctors, midwives, and nurses); but the effect on
providers outside the village is unlikely to be large. The BDD probably increase the demand for both public and
private hospital services, through increased referrals. It is also important to note that their curative care activities
also probably adversely affect the demand for competing public and private providers (i.e., puskesmas, pustu,
private doctors and nurses, pharmacies).7
46.    Province-level funds to finance referrals can be expected to significantly increase utilization and revenues of
both public and private hospitals (assuming both types of hospitals are eligible for reimbursement by the fund).
They are also likely to have a positive effect on the demand for the services of modern providers (i.e., relative to
traditional birth attendants), if referrals are necessary in order to obtain reimbursement from the fund.
47.    In summary, due to the dual nature of public and private providers in Indonesia, the project is unlikely to
benefit the public sector significantly at the expense of the private sector. However, the demand for the services of
traditional birth attendants is likely to be adversely affected by all three categories of intervention.
IX. Institutional Assessment
48.    Different agencies will be responsible for the inputs needed to produce intended project outputs and
outcomes. These include: BKKBN, MOH, MOEC and local government. The following is a brief assessment of the
main executing agencies.
*  BKKBN has been intemationally recognized for its management capacity and ability to carry out community
mobilization and IEC activities. Over the past two decades, BKKBN has established a strong IEC network that
extended from the central to the village level. This network is supported by strong management system at all
levels. BKKBN has also been successful in working with other partners for community mobilization, especially
religious and community leaders as well as selected NGOs. Recently, BKKBN has expanded its mandate to
include family welfare activities. The family welfare component of BKKBN's activities has witnessed
significant growth during the last 3 years. The nature of the impact of this expansion on BKKBN's
implementation capacity, especially of family planning and demand campaigns for reproductive health services,
is not clear but is a risk that should be considered in this project. Moreover, BKKBN, until recently, had little
experience with reproductive health issues other than family planning. Thus their capacity for providing the
needed technical guidance for the program is limited.
*  MOH controls a large network of public health facilities --at the village, sub-district, district and provincial
levels. These facilities are physically accessible to a large segment of the population. However, services
provided through this network suffer from poor quality and inefficiencies in resource allocations. This is partly
the result of the difficulties facing health providers in the field to deliver vertically driven programs in a manner
that fits local needs and conditions with a little flexibility in resource allocations and inadequate data for
monitoring of program performance.
*  MOEC and the large network of schools that it oversees are an important vehicle for reaching the youth and for
providing educational materials. Utilizing MOEC machinery to delivery health education has been perceived as
a cost-effective tool for providing health education. However, although the population education programs were
very successful, the effectiveness of the school health program is not yet clear. An institutional risk relates to
7 In the case of pharmacies, however, the effect of the BDD is unlikely to be significant, since they often purchase drugs and contraceptives
directly from private pharmacies for use in their practices.
Fornm



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 46
Country: Indonesia                                                               Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
the ability of the organizations to select and train teachers to deliver the sensitive information of reproductive
health issues.
* Local government. Local government involvement is an important factor for the log term sustainability of the
project. The local government has played an important role in terms of coordinating other multi-sectoral
programs, especially through the Bappeda (levels I & II). The effectiveness of this role depends largely on the
Bappeda and how effective they are in playing the coordination role.
49.    Based on the institutional assessment, the project has adopted a partnership approach in order to build on the
strengthen and weakness of the different agencies to address the different downfalls of the different agencies. This,
however, needs to be accompanied by very clear (and as simple as possible) mechanisms for project management
and fund channeling.
XI. Poverty Assessment
50.    Low consumption of reproductive health services is most marked amongst the lower income groups. Poor
women make less use of midwives at delivery and their access to referral services during obstetric emergencies is
limited by cost. In a similar manner, adolescents from poor rural families also have less access to reproductive
health information.
51.    The project has an explicit emphasis on the poor and those in isolated areas through such interventions as the
BDDs and the referral fund, which aims to remove a barrier to use of referral facilities for obstetric emergency
cases. In addition, the proposed pilot of new conditions for BDDs will result in better targeting of government
subsidies to the poor and ensure that reproductive health services are more likely to be available to the poor and/or
more remote villages.
52.    Overall, the project is expected to have a strong positive effect on utilization of reproductive health services
and maternal health status amongst the poor.
XII. Performance Indicators
53.    Key performance indicators, together with the sources of information and target levels, for the project
development objectives, outputs, and each component are described in Annex 1.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 47
Country: Indonesia                                                                    Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
References
Attanayake, N., Faveau, and J. Chakraborty. 1991. "Cost Effectiveness Analysis of Matlab MCH-FP Project in Bangladesh, 1986-89,"
International Center for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh.
Attanayake, N., Faveau, and J. Chakraborty. 1993. "Cost Effectiveness Analysis of Matlab MCH-FP Project in Bangladesh," Health
Policy and Planning 8(4): 327-338.
Central Bureau of Statistics, National Family Planning Coordinating Board, Ministry of Health, and Macro International. 1995.
Indonesia Demographic and Health Survey 1994. Calverton, MD: CBS and MI.
Faveau, V., K. Stewart, S.A. Khan, and J. Chakroborty. 1991. "Effect on Mortality of Community-based Maternity Care Programme
in Rural Bangladesh," Lancet 338:1183-86.
Fox-Rushby, Julia A. and Frances Ford. 1996. "Costs, effects and cost-effectiveness analysis of a mobile maternal health care service
in West Kiang, The Gambia," Health Policy 35:123-143.
Hammer, Jeffrey S. 1997. "Economic Analysis for Health Projects," The World Bank Research Observer 12(1): 47-68.
Herz, Barbara and Anthony R. Measham. 1987. "The Safe Motherhood Initiative," World Bank Discussion Papers No. 9.
Washington, DC: The World Bank.
Jamison, Dean. 1993. "Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries: An Overview," in Dean Jamison, W. Henry Mosley,
Anthony Measham, and Jose Luis Bobadilla, Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries. New York: Oxford
University Press.
Phelps, Charles E. 1992. Health Economics. New York: HarperCollins Publishers Inc.
Rochjati, Poedji, Agus Abadi, Budi Rahayu, Benny Soegianto, and Wasis Budarto. 1996. "A Report on Simulation Model: A Model
of Service Package and Parturition Cost Package in Safe Motherhood Program at Regency Level," Reproduction Health
Research/Study Center, University of Airlangga, Surabaya, East Java.
Rochjati, Poedji and Budi Rahayu. 1996. "Application of Prioritizing the Extra Costs in the Safe Motherhood Program in East Java,"
Reproduction Health Research/Study Center, University of Airlangga, Surabaya, East Java.
Rochjati, Poedji, Agus Abadi, Budi Rahayu, Benny Soegianto, and Wasis Budarto. 1996. "A Study Report: A Study of Model
Development Financing of Maternal and Child Health (MCH) Activities at 2nd Level Regions," Reproduction Health
Research/Study Center, University of Airlangga, Surabaya, East Java.
Serrato, Carl A. and Glenn Melnick. 1995. "The Indonesian Family Life Survey: Overview and Descriptive Analysis," Report
submitted to USAID/Jakata, RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, CA.
Satoto, Dr. et al. 1995. "Final Report: Research on the Implementation of the Role of Village Midwives in the Mother and Child
Health (MCH) Services in Central Java," Diponegoro University, Semurang, Central Java.
Sherpick, Ann R. and Paul J. Hopstock. 1997. "Baseline and Follow-up Data on Participants in the Indonesian Revolving Loan Fund,
" The PROFIT Project, Arlington, VA (January).
Tinker Anne and Marjorie Koblinsky. 1993. "Making Motherhood Safe," World Bank Discussion Paper No. 202. Washington, DC:
The World Bank.
Walsh, Julia, Chris N. Feifer, Anthony R. Measam, and Paul J. Gertler. 1993. "Maternal and Perinatal Health," in Dean Jamison, W.
Henry Mosley, Anthony Measham, and Jose Luis Bobadilla, Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries. New
York: Oxford University Press.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 48
Country: Indonesia                                                                       Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Winfrey, William and Laura Heaton. 1996. "Market Segmentation Analysis of the Indonesian Family Planning Market: Consumer,
Provider and Product Market Segments," OPTIONS for Population Policy Project, The Futures Group, Washington, DC
(processed).
World Bank. 1993. Indonesia Public Expenditures, Prices and the Poor. Indonesia Resident Mission, Country Department III, East
Asia and Pacific Region. Washington, DC: The World Bank.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 49
Country: Indonesia                                                                   Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Appendix 1
Analysis of Unit Costs for Reducing Maternal Mortality
In general, the data base on unit costs for reducing maternal mortality is relatively limited. Only a handful of studies
report on cost per death averted for different interventions and countries. Although the data is limited, it is useful to
compare unit costs in Indonesia to those reported in other studies and countries.
The Matlab study. The only carefully designed study of the impact of safe motherhood interventions in a
developing country similar to the BDD program was conducted as part of the Matlab experiment in Bangladesh, in
which trained midwives were posted in villages and referred clients to a central maternity clinic whose services
were improved as part of the intervention8 That study found that the intervention was associated with a 68 percent
decrease in maternal mortality in the intervention area compared to the "control" area (Faveau, et.al. 1991). The
cost per maternal and neonatal death in the Matlab study was estimated to be $2,158 (Attanayake et. al., 1991).
Simulation studies. Other available cost effectiveness studies (e.g., Walsh, et. al., 1993; Tinker and Koblinsky,
1993) involve simulation studies in which hypothetical costs of safe motherhood interventions are compared to
hypothetical impacts in terms of reduced maternal and perinatal mortality. The first of these two studies simulates
the effects of a safe motherhood program in different settings. In the model closest to the Indonesian situation, the
cost per maternal and perinatal death averted was estimated to range from $1,975 to $3,967.9 In the second study
(Tinker and Koblinsky), the estimated cost per maternal and prenatal death averted ranging from $995 to $3,142.
The estimates of cost per averted maternal death (i.e., not including perinatal deaths averted range from $6,966 to
$21,994, depending on the types of interventions and the setting into which they were introduced.
Simulation studies - Indonesia. In Indonesia, a study by Rochjati et al. (1996) on costing of safe motherhood
interventions included a cost analysis of a model of prevention of maternal deaths from obstetric complications
utilized a simulation model to estimate the additional cost required to reduce the maternal mortality ratio from 425
to 225 per 100,000 pregnancies. The study estimates that an additional 28,040 Rupiah (US$ 8.8) per pregnancy
would be required in additional medicines and supplies to implement an ideal package of emergency obstetric
interventions at each level of facility. This corresponds to an estimated cost per maternal death prevented of
14,020,000 Rupiah ($6,096).
Implications for the project. The above studies clearly indicate that cost data from Indonesia are within the expected
ranges. They also show that the approach that village midwives approach is likely to be cost effective. Moreover,
given that the project interventions are likely to introduce efficiency gains to the health care delivery system and
that the costs needed for maternal mortality reduction will not be totally born by the government, it is likely that the
project approach will yield estimates that are lower than those reported by Roshjati et.al. for Indonesia.
8 Another experimental study, conducted in The Gambia (Fox-Rushby and Foord, 1996), obtained estimates ranging from $459 to $2,134 per
death averted. However, the observed declines in maternal and neonatal deaths were not statistically significant in this study.
9the study estimates that a program with costs of $0.48 per capita would reduce maternal mortality by 25-50 percent, the incidence of low-birth-
weight babies would decrease from 8 percent to 7-7.5 percent, and perinatal mortality would decrease by from 12.5-25 percent.
Form_



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 50
Country: Indonesia                                                                 Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 5
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
0
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ Million, 1997 Base Year)
Implementation Period
1998       1999        2000       2001        2002
Pro-ject Costs
Investment Costs            5.0        10.8        14.7       13.3        10.8
Recurrent Costs              1.0        1.7         1 .3        1.6        1.7
Total                    6.0        12.5        16.0        14.9       12.5
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
IBRD/IDA                    4.0         8.5        11.0       10.5         8.5
Government                  2.0         4.0         5.0        4.4         4.0
Total                    6.0        12.5        16.0        14.9       12.5
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 51
Country: Indonesia                                                         Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 6
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Loan proceeds will be used to finance procurement of goods and services. Procurement under the
project will follow World Bank guidelines on procurement of goods and services -- Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996 (Procurement Guidelines), and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (Consultant Guidelines). The World Bank Standard Bidding Documents for Goods will be used
for ICB and the standard bid evaluation form will be used for its evaluation. All consultant contracts would
use the Bank's standard forms of contracts for consultants.
Procurement methods (Table A)
E Equipment totaling US$ 3.4 million equivalent including contingencies. Contract packages of US$
200,000 or more will be awarded through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers will receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent
on the import duty, whichever is less; contract packages costing less than US$ 200,000, in an aggregate
not exceeding US$ 1.03 million, may be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
acceptable to the Bank; contracts costing less than US$ 50,000, up to an aggregate not exceeding US$
0.8 million, may be procured through national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
*  IEC and instructional materials totaling US$ 13.7 million equivalent including contingencies.
Contract packages of US$ 200,000 or more will be awarded through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures. Qualifying domestic manufacturers will receive a margin of preference in bid
evaluation of 15 percent on the import duty, whichever is less. In addition, and given the local language
requirements or relatively small sizes of contracts, contract packages costing less than US$ 200,000, in
an aggregate not exceeding US$ 7.6 million, may be procured through National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) acceptable to the Bank; and contracts costing less than US$ 50,000, up to an aggregate not
exceeding US$ 2.8 million, may be procured through national shopping procedures, with at least three
offers from qualified suppliers, or direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank.
* Overseas and in-country fellowships, local training and workshops totaling US$ 19.6 million
equivalent including contingencies. Placement of candidates in foreign institutions would be made on
the basis of relevance and quality of programs offered, cost, and prior experience, according to
government procedures acceptable to the Bank. Training contracts would be awarded to local providers
in accordance with government administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.
*  Evaluation studies, research and technical assistance totaling US$ 11.1 million equivalent including
contingencies, will be selected and contracted in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines. Quality-
cost-based-selection (QBCS) will be used for the procurement of consultant services except for the
following activities:
* Quality-based selection (QBS) totaling US$ 389 thousand equivalent including
contingencies will be used for policy studies under the BDD pilot components (component
I.C) given that this assignment has a high downstream impact.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 52
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
* Selection based on qualifications of consultant (QC) totaling US$ 6.4 million equivalent
including contingencies will be used for assignment that don not exceed US$100,000
equivalent each and where the need for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is
not justified.
*  Selection based on Fixed budget totaling of US$ 120 thousand equivalent including
contingencies will be used for operational research assignments at the district level that are
simple and can be precisely defined.
*  Sole Source selection totaling US$ 250 thousand equivalent including contingencies will
be used for the procurement of the baseline and final surveys that will designed as follow-
up to the Demographic and Health Surveys in year I and year 4 of the project. The
justification for the soles source selection of the survey is that only one firm (that will carry
out the original surveys) has experience and special worth for the assignment.
+  Individual consultant selection totaling US$ 450 thousands including contingencies will be
used for the procurement of consultants for the central and provincial project secretariats
and management units where the experience and qualification of the individual are the
paramount requirement.
*  Project administration totaling US$ 1.5 million equivalent, including contingencies, will include
expenditures directly related to project management such as travel, consumable materials, honoraria,
meetings, office supplies and operational costs, excluding salaries. The expenditures would follow
government procedures acceptable to the Bank.
*  BDD pilots totaling US$ 2.7 million equivalent will be procured following government administrative
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
*  Recurrent costs for operational support and financing of emergency obstetric services totaling about
US$ 4.9 million equivalent, including contingencies. These expenditures will follow standard
government procedures acceptable to the Bank. In addition, eligibility criteria for the emergency
obstetric services as specified in MOH guidelines acceptable to the Bank will be followed for such
activities.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
*  The Bank will carry out prior review for all contracts valued at or over USD200,000 equivalent,
including bidding documents and bid evaluation reports for each category of expenditure. About 30
percents of goods (i.e., all ICB packages) purchased through the project will be subject to prior review.
In order to compensate for the relatively low level of prior review, one in four (25%) of contracts valued
less than USD200,000 will be subject to post-review. Further, as part of the annual implementation
reviews, the adequacy of the procurement management and implementation will be reviewed. In
addition, given the importance of the IEC procurement, a technical review of the implementation of such
activities will be carried out no later than December 31, 1998. Finally, procurement planning,
management and implementation will be reviewed at the mid-term review of the project that should be
carried out no later than July 31, 2000.
*  All individual consultant contracts valued at or over US$ 50,000 equivalent and contracts for consulting
firms valued at or over US$ 100,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other consultant
contracts would be subject to random post review. However, these exemptions to Bank prior review
shall not apply to: (a) terms of reference for such assignments; (b) single source selection of consulting
firms; and (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                       Page 53
Country: Indonesia                                                            Project Title: Safe Mothehood Project
Fellowships, local training and workshops would be subject to random post review by the Bank.
Beginning in 1998, the plans for each year would be furnished to the Bank for review and approval.
Disbursement
The proposed loan of US$ 42.5 million would be disbursed over a period of five years. The project's
closing date is May 31, 2003. Disbursements would be made in accordance with the categories outlined in
Table C.
Disbursements would be against statements of expenditures for: (i) goods and IEC and instructional
materials under contracts costing less than US$ 200,000 equivalent each, (ii) fellowships, training and
workshops; (iii) services and TPC contracts; (iv) emergency obstetrical services; (v) project administration;
(vi) in-house studies not requiring the procurement of external consultants' services and costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each; and (vii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than
US$100,000 equivalent each, and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than $50,000
equivalent each. All other disbursements from the loan would be against full documentation.
To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account in an amount of US$ 2.7 million would be established at
Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank. This Special Account would be held in the name of the
Director General of Budget, Ministry of Finance, following established procedures. The Special Account
would be used for all eligible foreign and local expenditures. Replenishment to the Special Account would
be made on the monthly basis or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been used, whichever occurs first.
Form _



Projec Appraisal Document                                                                                        Page 54
Courbty: Indonesia                                                                         Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 6
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$000's equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                Procurement Method                         (including
ICB        NCB      Other a/   NBF    contingencies)
1. Goods
Equipment                          1,546       1,031       832           -        3,409
(1,082)      (722)      (601)                  (2,405)
IEC & instructional materials     3,346        7,551     2,789           -       13,686
(2,359)     (5,323)   (1,898)                  (9,580)
Furniture/Civil works/vehicles         -           -         -         374         374
Vehicles b/                                                             74           74
2. Services
Training &Workshops, local             -           -    17,532           -       17,532
fellowships                                              (10,519)               (10,519)
Overseas Fellowships                   -           -     2,132           -        2,132
(2,132)                 (2,132)
Evaluation and Research                                  6,944           -        6,944
(6,944)                 (6,944)
BDD Pilots                                         -     2,662           -        2,662
(2,662)                 (2,662)
Project administration                 -           -      1,466          -        1,466
(1,026)                 (1,026)
Technical assistance                               -     4,259           -        4,259
(3,514)                 (3,514)
Emergency obstetric services                       -     5,939           -        5,939
(3,742)                 (3,742)
Operational support                    -           -          -      1,152        1,152
Financial support for BDDs             -           -          -        470         470
Demographic health survey (DHS)        -           -          -      1,831        1,831
Total                           4,892       8,582     44,556      3,454       61,930
(3,441)     (6,045)   (33,038)         -      (42,524)
Notes:
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
NBF = Not Bank Financed
a/ This category includes consultant services, research and evaluation procured following Consultant Guidelines; training and
fellowships, national shopping, direct contracting, administrative and operational costs and costs for emergency obstetric care
that will follow GOI's administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank, lump- sum.
bI The schedule for the procurement of vehicles was agreed upon during negotiations.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
Numbers may not add up due to rounding errors
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Page 55
Country: Indonesia                                                                    Project Title: Safe Motherhood Projec
Annex 6
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value        Procurement             Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method                   Prior Review
1. Goods
Equipment               $200,000           ,ICB for contracts      All contracts costing $200,000
costing $200,000 or    or more
more
*NCB for contracts
costing $50,000 or more
* Other for contracts
below $50,000
IEC & instructional     $200,000           *ICB for contracts      All contracts costing $200,000
materials                                   costing $200,000 or    or more
more
*NCB for contracts
costing $50,000 or more
*Other for contracts
below $50,000
2. Services
Training/workshops/     N.A.              Other                    Annual training plans for each
fellowships                                                        year will be submitted as part of
annual report for review and
discussion with the Bank
Technical assistance,   $50,000 for       Other                    All individual consultants
evaluation and research    individual                              contracts costing $50,000 or
consultants and                            more and for consulting firms
$100,000 for firms                         $100,000 or more. All TORs
and single-sourced selection of
consultants.
Project administration  N.A.              Other                    Follow Government procedures
acceptable to the Bank
Emergency obstetric     N.A.              Other                    Follow Government procedures
services                                                           and MOH Guidelines
acceptable to the Bank.
BDD pilots              N.A.              Other                    Follow Government procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 58
Country: Indonesia                                                                      Project Title: Safe Motherhood Projed
Annex 6
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount in                 Financing Percentage
US$million
(1) Equipment (excluding vehicles)                2.3          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory costs), and
65% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally.
(2) IEC & instructional materials                 9.2                          70%
(3) Local training, workshops and local           9.9                          60%
fellowships
(4) Studies and overseas fellowships              8.6                         100%
(5) BDD pilots'                                   2.6                         100%
(6) Project administration                        1.0                          70%
(7) Emergency obstetric service                   3.4          100% incurred in FY 1997/1998
FY 1998/99 and FY 1999/2000; 25%
incurred after FY 1999/2000
(8) Consultant services                           3.5                          80%
(9) Unallocated                                   2.0
Total        42.5
to Refered to in the Schduel I of the Loan Agreement as services under Targeted Performance-Based Contracts including consultants'
services and training under the under Parts A. l(c)(i),(ii), and (iv) of the Project -- i.e., the BDD pilots.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                           Page 57
Country: Indonesia                                                                                         Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 6
Safe Motlherhlood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Plrocurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table D: Procurement Plan
Contracting and Review Responsibilities
Total     Estiinate                                     Contracts
Value
Category                (USDM)  Coitract    DIP                   Procurement   Review           Bank         Documents
Quantity    Allocation        method         method           review by    required for
Disbursement
Equipment:                 3.4
(2.3)
>USD200,000                         5          Central/Province    ICB           Prior           TM/RSI       Full Doc.
<USD200,000                         4          Central/province    NCB           Random Post    RSI/SPN       SOE
<USD50,000                         I          Province/district    Shopping     Random Post    RSI/SPN       SOE
IEC & Instr. Materials:   13.1
>USD200,000               (9.2)    10          Central/Province    ICB           Prior           TM/RSI       Full Doc
<USD200,000                        15          Central/province    NCB           Random Post    RSI/SPN       SOE
<USD50,000                         84          Province/district    Shopping/    Random post    RSI/SPN       SOE
Direct
contracting
In-country fellowships,    16.7    NA          Central/province/   Others        Aniual Review   SPN/TM       SOE
Training / workshops      (9.9)                district
Overseas Fellowship        2.0     NA          Central/Provincial   Others       Annual Review   SPN/TM       SOE
(2.0)
Research/evaluation/       10.7                Central
consultants.:             (10. 1)
Quality - and  Cost               8                              QCBS
Based-Selection (QCBS)                         Central/Province
- Quality -Based Select.           4                              QBS
(QBS)                                          Central/Province    CQ
- Consultants'                     68          Central/Province/
Qualification (CQ)                  5          district.          FC
- Fixed Cost (FC)                  2           Central            SS
- Single Source (SS)               N.\         Central/Province    Others
--in-house
* contract valued:                                                              IPrior           TM           Full Doc
*   > USD 100,000 for
firm                                                                        Prior           TM           Full Doc
*   > USD 50,000 for
indiv.
BDD Pilots:                2.6     NA          Central/Province    Others        Random Post    TM/RSI        SOE
(2.6)
Project Administration     1.4     NA          Central/province    Others        Ranidom Post    TM/RS1       SOE
(1.0)            - district
Emergency obstetrical      5.7     NA          Central/Province    Others        Ranidom Post    TM/RSI       SOE
services                  (3.4)
Note. The Project Management Unit will prepare aniual procurement plans for each year that will be iicorporated in the annual implementation
plan for the project. A preliminary procurement pl an for the first year of project activities was submitted at negotiations. This plan will be finalized by
August 18, 1997. The first year plan wi I be included in the project implementation volume and will be updated annually.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 58
Country: Indonesia                                                           Project Tile: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 7
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (USS 000)                      Planned             Actual a/
(At PCD stage)
74                 213.1
(revised during
preparation 220)
B. Project Schedule                              Planned             Actual a/
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identiiication)              10/23/95             10/23/95
First Decision Meeting                           09/21/95             10/02/95
Approval of Project concept                                           12/14/95
Final Decision Meeting                           05/01/96             04/03/97
Appraisal mission departure                      06/01/96             04/21/97
Negotiations                                     08/20/96             05/19/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/1996             11/30/1997
Prepared by: GOI preparation team
Preparation assistance: Trust Fund # 029455 (managed by GOI)
Bank staff who worked on1 the project included: Fadia Saadah (TM), Peter Heywood
(alternate), Karin Nordiaiider and Teresa Genta Fons (LEGEA), B. Champion (LOAAS),
Samuel Lieberman (Division Chief).
a/ As of April 30, 1997.
Fonn _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                  Page 59
Country: Indonesia                                                        Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 8
Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Safe Motherhood Project: Partnership and Family Approach. Report prepared by Government of
Indonesia, January 20, 1997.
2. District model of programs' activities for Safe Motherhood Project. Report submitted to the National
Family Planning Coordination Board by CHN-RL. Faculty of Medicine, Gadja Mada University,
Yogyakarta.
3. BDD Development - Assessment and Project Proposal. MOH, Indonesia, February 1997.
4. Sayan Ibu Emergency Services and Bidan Di Desa Sustainability: Activities, Summary budget tables,
Proposed covenants, and implementation schedule. May 1997.
5. Safe Motherhood Pro ject: Family Planning Component. May 1997
6. Safe Motherhood Proj;ct: Demand side of the maternal health component, May 1997.
7. Safe Motherhood Project: Adolescent reproductive health component. May 1997.
8. Safe Motherhood Pi i;ct: a review of adolescent reproductive health curriculum. May 1997
9. Safe motherhood Pro ject. Strengthening the supply of maternal health services. May 1997
B. Bank Staff/Consultant Assessments
1. Options for expandinu private sector reproductive health services in Indonesia. Consultant report by
James Knowles, Ph.D.. Apt Associates Inc., November 26, 1996.
2. Midwifery training issues. Consultant report by Susan Murray, February 1997.
3. Adolescents' repro( -tive health in Indonesia. Issues and overview of project proposals by Judith
Senderowitz, Febru. v 1997.
4. Identification, prep  ion, pre-appraisal and appraisal aide memoires and back-to-office reports.
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          Page 60
Country: Indonesia                                                                                       Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original amount in US$ millions             between expected
Project     Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                 and actual
ID       Credit No.  Year  Borrower                Purpose                   IBRD        IDA  ancellations Undisbursed   disbursements'
Numberof'ClosedLoans: 151:/Credits: 48
Active Loans
ID-PE-3873     L31580    1990   GOI    Second Secondary Education                154.20                              19.45             19.45
ID-PE-3960     L32090    1990   GOI    Gas Utilization                            86.00                              35.03             35.03
ID-PE-3868     L32190    1990   GOI       Second Jabotabek Urban Developmen      190.00                              24.96             24.64
ID-PE-3977     L32460    1991   GOI    Third Jabotabek Urban Development          61.00                              17.70             17.27
ID-PE-3959     L32820    1991   GOI    Fertilizer Restructuring                  221.70                  0.24        10.30              9.84
ID-PE-3981     L33020    1991   GOI    Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Dev.     125.00                 21.50        18.10             39.60
ID-PE-3943     L33040    1991   GOI    East Java/Bali Urban Development          180.30                              22.08             22.08
ID-PE-3912     L33050    1991   GOI    YogyakanaUplandAreaDevelopmen              15.50                   1.30        0.92              2.23
ID-PE-3922     L33400    1991   GOI    Sulawesi-Irian Jaya Urban Developme       100.00                               4.10              3.16
ID-PE-3975    L33490    1991   GOI        Power Transmission                     275.00                 103.40       11.27            114.67
ID-PE-3928    L34020    1992   GOI    Agricultural Financing                     106.10                              44.93             43.63
ID-PE-3966    L34310    1992   GOI    Third Non-Formal Education                  69.50                               7.89              2.19
ID-PE-3940    L34480    1992   GOI    Primary Education Quality Improvem          37.00                              17.64             12.64
ID-PE-4012    L34540    1992   GOI    BAPEDAL Development                         12.00                               0.94              0.44
ID-PE-3860     L34640    1992   GOI    Treecrops Smallholder                      87.60                              35.13             16.03
ID-PE-3997     L34820    1992   GOI    Fourth Telecommunications                 375.00                             187.12             57.12
ID-PE-3949     L34900    1992   GOI    Third Kabupaten Roads                    215.00                                2.35              2.35
ID-PE-3969     L34960    1992   GOI    Primary School Teacher Development         36.60                              12.48              9.93
ID-PE-3916     L35010    1992   GOI    Suralaya Thermal Power                   423.60                  100.00      115.14             61.54
ID-PE-3970     L35260    1993   GOI    Financial Sector Development             307.00                  39.81        41.69             81.50
ID-PE-3914     L35500    1993   GOI    Third Community Health & Nutrition        93.50                               40.56              5.56
ID-PE-4006     L35790    1993   GOI    E. Indonesia Kabupaten Roads              155.00                              26.63             17.64
ID-PE-4009     L35860    1993   GOI    Integrated PestManagement                  32.00                              19.58             12.08
ID-PE-3999    L35880    1993   GOI    Groundwater Development                     54.00                  18.94       15.42              5.76
ID-PE-4018     L35890    1993   GOI    Flores Earthquake Reconstruction           42.10                               4.55              4.55
ID-PE-4007     L36020    1993   GOI    Cirata Hydroelectric Phase 11             104.00                              72.42             57.42
ID-PE-3990    L36290    1993   GOI    Water Supply & Sanitation for Low In        80.00                              52.96             27.96
ID-PE-3985     L36580    1994   GOI    National Watershed Mgmt and Conser         56.50                              46.40              8.10
ID-PE-3945     L37120    1994   GOI       Second Highway Sector Investment       350.00                             231.80            106.80
ID-PE-3952     L37210    1994   GOI       Skills Development                      27.70                              21.10             19.75
ID-PE-3998     L37260    1994   GOI    Surabaya Urban Development                175.00                             138.72             56.52
ID-PE-4020     L37320    1994   GOI    Fifth Kabupaten Roads                     101.50                              42.11             -1.14
ID-PE-4010     L37420    1994   GOI    Dam Safety                                 55.00                              43.13             13.53
ID-PE-3890     L37490    1994   GOI    Semarang-Surakarta Urban Developm         174.00                             130.84             38.75
ID-PE-4017     L37540    1994   GOI    University Research for Graduation St      58.90                              43.92              9.52
ID-PE-3937     L37550    1994   GOI    IntegratedSwamps                           65.00                              48.26              8.11
ID-PE-3910     L37610    1994   GOI       Sumatera& Kalimantan Power            260.50                              238.25             68.75
ID-PE-3954     L37620    1994   GOI    Java Irrigation Improvements and Wtr      165.70                             121.11             25.11
ID-PE-3984    L37920    1995   GOI    Land Administration                         80.00                              67.10             11.07
ID-PE-4019     L38010    1995   GOI    SecondAccountancyDevelopment               25.00                              20.89             11.99
ID-PE-3988     L38250    1995   GOI       Second Professional Resource Develo     69.00                              47.72              2.71
ID-PE-3979     L38450    1995   GOI    Second Rural Electrification              398.00                             334.87            113.91
ID-PE-3951     L38540    1995   GOI    Kalimantan Urban Development              136.00                             102.76             33.26
ID-PE-3972    L38860/6   1995   GOI    Second Agriculture Research Manage         63.00                              58.68             -2.32
ID-PE-3968    L38870/6   1995   GOI       Book & Reading Development             132.50                             128.36             -2.14



Page 61
Project Appraisal Document                                                                                 Projec Ttle: Safe Motherhood Project
Country: Indonesia
Difference
Original amount in USS millions            between expected
Project     Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                             and actual
ID       Credit No.  Year  Borrower              Purpose                  IBRD        IDA  ancellations Undisbursed   disbursements'
ID-PE-34891   L38880/6   1995  GOI    Village Infrastructure                   72.50                               9.81           -37.29
ID-PE-4001    L39046    1995  GOI    Telecommunications Sector Modemiz        325.00                            324.15            54.15
ID-PE-3965    L3905016   1995  GOI    Fourth Health                            S8.00                             85.25            -1.75
ID-PE-39754    L39136    1995  GOI    Second Technical Assistance for Infra    28.00                              27.00             6.50
ID-PE-3978    L39720    1996  GOI    Industrial Technology Development         47.00                             45.89            16.95
ID-PE-4021    L39780    1996  GOI    Second Power Transmission and Distr      373.00                            373.00            34.70
ID-PE-4003    L39790    1996  GOI    Second Teacher Training                   60.40                             58.29            10.84
ID-PE-39643    L39810    1996  GOI    STD/AIDS                                 24.80                              24.30             5.75
ID-PE-4008    L39840    1996  GOI    Nusa Tenggara Agriculture Developm        27.00                             25.78             2.08
ID-PE-4011     A40070    1996  GOI    Sulawesi Agriculture Area Developme      26.80                             25.58             0.82
ID-PE-4014    L40080    1996   GOI    Kerinci Seblat ICDP                      19.10                             18.20              1.00
ID-PE-39312    L40170    1996  GOI    Second E. Java Urban Development         142.70                            139.70            22.90
ID-PE-41896    L40300    1996  GOI    Human Resource Capacity Building         20.00                              19.41             0.92
ID-PE-37097    40420    1996  GOI    E. Java Junior Secondary Education       99.00                              96.50             1.00
ID-PE-4004    L40430    1996   GOI    Higher Education Support                 65.00                             62.50              1.49
ID-PE-4016    40540    1996  GOI    Strategic Urban Roads                     86.90                             83.40             2.50
ID-PE-3987    L40620    1997  GOI    C. Indonesia Secondary Education         104.00                            101.50             0.50
ID-PE-41894    L40950    1997   GOI    Sumatra Secondary Education             98.00                              95.00            -3.00
ID-PE-40521    L41000    1997   GOI    Second Villagelnfrastructure           140.10                             140.10             3.00
ID-PE-36053    L41050    1997   GOI    Second Sulawesi Urban Development       155.00                            155.00             5.00
ID-PE-4026    L41060    1997  GOI    Railway Efficiency                       105.00                            105.00
ID-PE-42540    41250    1997  GOI    Iodine Deficiency Control                28.50                              28.50
ID-PE-35544    L41320    1997  GOI    Solar Homes Systems                      20.00                              20.00
OTAL                                                                       81604         0 20520             479.L21          135379
Active Loans                    Closed
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)     3,083.99                        14,748.47             17,832.46
Of which repaid                     46.28                        6,986.41              7,032.69
Total now held by IBRD and IDA     7,828.92                         7,789.58             15,61S.50
Amount sold                            0.00                           88.08                 88.08
Of which repaid                      0.00                           88.08                 88.08
Total undisbursed                  4,791.21                           27.53              4,818.74
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data are updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                               Page 62
Country: Indonesia                                                                               Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Indonesia - Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3/31/97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                         Disbursed
IFC                                              IFC
I               II
FYApproval     Company                 Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic          Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic
1971           Unitex                  0.00        0.35        0.00       0.00           0.00        0.35        0.00       0.00
1980/87        Semen Andalas           9.25       10.02        0.00       9.98           9.25       10.02        0.00       9.98
1982/84/93     Saseka Finance          0.00        0.38        0.00       0.00           0.00        0.38        0.00       0.00
1986           PT Bali                 0.22        0.00        0.00       0.00           0.22        0.00        0.00       0.00
1988           Manulife                0.00        0.32        0.00       0.00           0.00        0.32        0.00       0.00
1989           PT Agro Muko            3.36        2.20        0.00       3.64           3.36        2.20        0.00       3.64
1989/91/94     PTAstra                  0.00      12.16        0.00       0.00           0.00       12.16        0.00       0.00
1990/91/93/95    PT Indo-Rama          37.48       8.72        0.00      61.68          37.48        8.72        0.00      61.68
1991           LYON-MLF-lbis           2.12        0.00        0.00       2.12           2.12        0.00        0.00       2.12
1991           PTArgoPantes            15.00      13.00        0.00      22.71          15.00       13.00       0.00       22.71
1991           PT Indaci               0.40        0.00        1.83       0.00           0.40        0.00        1.44       0.00
1991           PTRIMBA                  7.35       0.60        0.00       4.17           7.35        0.60        0.00       4.17
1991           SEAVI Indonesia          0.00       1.50        0.00       0.00           0.00        1.50        0.00       0.00
1992/95        PT Bakrie Kasei         50.13       3.00        9.63      77.38          50.13        3.00        9.63      77.38
1992/94/96     PTKIAKeramik           25.83        9.15        0.00      85.91          17.34        4.05       0.00       58.40
1992/94        PT Mitracorp            0.00       19.99       0.00        0.00           0.00       19.99        0.00       0.00
1992           PT Swadharma           23.33        0.00        0.00      39.83          23.33        0.00        0.00      39.83
1992/95        PT Viscose             32.13        0.00       0.00       46.43          32.13        0.00       0.00       46.43
1993/96        PTBBLDharrnala         15.45        0.00        0.00      35.73          15.45        0.00       0.00       35.73
1993           PT Nusantara            4.00        0.00       0.00       12.00           3.58        0.00       0.00       11.67
1993           Pr Samudera             1.91        5.00       0.00        5.84           1.91        5.00       0.00        5.84
1994           KDLC Bali              15.00        1.14       0.00        0.00          15.00        1.14       0.00        0.00
1994           Prudential Asia         0.00        6.75       0.00        0.00           0.00        4.19       0.00        0.00
1994           PAMA (Indonesia)        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00           0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
1994           PTPAMA                  0.00        0.71       0.00        0.00           0.00        0.71       0.00        0.00
1994           PT Saripuri             7.56        0.00        0.00      20.00           7.56        0.00        0.00      20.00
1995           PT Bakrie Pet           11.08       2.00        0.00       0.00          11.08        2.00        0.00       0.00
1995           PT Bakrie Pipe          18.57       0.00       9.50        0.00          18.57        0.00        9.50       0.00
1995           PT Bunas Finance        8.55        0.00        0.00       4.50           8.55        0.00        0.00       4.50
1995           PT Citimas Captl        0.00        1.31        0.00       0.00           0.00        1.31        0.00       0.00
1995           PT Hotel Santika        9.00        0.00        5.00       0.00           4.50        0.00        5.00       0.00
1995           PT KIA Serpih           15.00       6.35        0.00      55.00          15.00        6.24        0.00      55.00
1995           PT Panin Finance        6.00        1.93        0.00       8.00           6.00        1.93        0.00       8.00
1996           PTDharmala             20.00        0.00        0.00      15.00          20.00        0.00       0.00        5.00
1996           PT Gleneagles           8.30        0.00        3.60      10.30           8.30        0.00       3.60       10.30
1996           PT Pramindo Ikat       25.00        8.18       25.00     300.00           0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
1997           PT Astra Graphia        0.00        2.53       0.00        0.00           0.00        2.53       0.00        0.00
1997           PT Kalimantan          20.00       15.00        0.00       0.00           0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:      392 02       132.29     54 56      820B22         333.61      101.34      2291       482.38
Approvals Pending Conimitment
Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                             Pp 63
Country: Indonesia                                                                            Project rtle: Safe Moherhd  Project
1995           PT INDO-RAMA RI           0.00        2.50        0.00        0.00
1996           PANIN FINANCE II          6.00        0.00        0.00        4.00
1996           PANIN 11- BLINC           0.00        0.00        0.00        4.00
1996           PT ASIANAGRO             40.00        0.00        0.00       40.00
1997           PT BANK NISP              5.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commit    51.00        2.50        0.00       48.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                Page 64
Country: Indonesia                                                                                                          Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Annex 10
Indonesia at a glance                                                                2120197
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               East  middle-
Indonesia      Asia  Income       Development diamond'
Populabon mid-1995 (nittons)                          193.3      1.706    1.153
GNP percapita 1995 (USS)                                980       800    1.670                  Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (bilitons USS)                               190.1      1,365    1,926
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (9%)                                         1.6        1.3      1.4      GNP                                 Gross
Labor force (%)                                         2.5        1.4      1.7      per               /                primary
Most recent estimate (tatest year available since 1989)                              capita                          enrollment
Poverty: headcount Index (1 odpopuLation)                17
Urban population (1 oftotlpopulaton)                     34        31        56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         64        68        67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live biftrs)                 51        40        41                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (1 ot chikkren under 5)               39        23        22
Access to safe water I of poputahlon)                    63         77
Illiteracy (9 ofpopulation age 15+)                      16         17                         Indonesia
Gross primary enrollment (% of scoolage population)     114        117      104          -         Lonerid
male                                                  116       120       105                Lower-miuddle-income group
Female                                                112       116       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995      1996
Economic ratIos'
GDP (billions USS)                            32.1     87.2      201.2    232.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 23.7     26.1       31.5     31.6              Openness of ecnomy
Exports of goods and non-factor servicesGOP   23.2     22.2       26.0     25.8
Gross domestic savIngs/GDP                    25.9     27.8       32.3     32.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    23.4     22.8       28.2     28.2                        T
Current account balance/GDP                   -3.4     -2.2       -2.6     -3.3
Interest payments/GOP                          1.0      2.3        2.5      2.2      Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                35.8     42.1       53.6     44.2
Total debt servcatexports                     15.1     28.8       29.9     30.0
Present value of debVGDP                         ..      ..       51.3
Present value of debVexports                    ..       ..    187.7                             Indebtedness
1975i85  1988-96     1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual gnwth)                                                                  -         Indonesia
GDP                                   7.0      7.9      8.2        7.6      6.6          -    Lower-middle-income gfoup
GNP per capta                         4.3      6.2      5.8        6.0
Exports of goods and nfs             -1.0      9.3      8.0        9.6      7.6
STRUCTURE of th. ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995      1996      Growth rates 1 output nd investment(%l
(6 of GD)P) 
Agnwclture                                    30.2     23.2       16.9     15.5     20
Industry                                      33.5     35.9       40.9     39.9
Manufaciaing                                 9.8      16.0      23.9      23.3     Ia
Services                                      36.3     40.9       42.2     44.6
Pnvate consumpbon                             65.1     60.4       59.6     60.7             91   92   93   9D   95    9
Generalgovemmentconsumption                    9.0     11.8        8.1      7.0                   1GDI   ---GOP
Imports of goods and non-factor sreroces      21.0     20.5       25.2     25.2
(average annual gw1197545  1986-96                               1995      1996        rw ats of exports and imports (%)
Agniculture                                    4.2      3.4        4.0      3.0      30 -
Industry                                       7.0      9.9       10.3      94
Manufacturing                               14.5      11.2      11.1       9.9     20
Services                                       9.0      8.1        7.9      7.6
Private consumpbon                             9.8      6.9        8.7      7.3
General govemnment consumptlon                10.5      4.8        3.4      3.5   I
Grossdomesticinvastnent                       12.1     10.7       15.0      8.3             Si   92   93   94   95   In
Imports of goods and non-factor servies        8.8      9.4       15.8      8.7                   Expors     Impors
Gross national product                         6.5      7.9        7.4      7.5                      _r-         m
Note: 1996 data are prniiminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
* The diamonds show four key indIkators In the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



PoetAppraisal Document                                                                                                                             Page 65
Project Appraia                                                                                                         Project Title: Safe Motherhood Project
Country: Indonesia
Indonesia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Oomestic prices                              1975      1985      1995      1996      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                          15 _
Consumer pnces                                19.1      4.7        5.1      8.3
Implicit GDP deflator                         11.2      4.3        9.4     11.8
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                           D t94                            5
CurTent revenue                                  .     19.2       15.5     15.0             9
Current budget balance                          ..      6.0        6.4      6.4             -     GOPdef  ---CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                         ..    -3.2        -0.2      0.7
TRADE
1975     1985      1995      1996      Exportandimporttevels(mill.US$)
(millions USS)
Total exports (fob)                             ,.  18,823    44,792   53,288       s0u000
Fuel                                           ..  12,804      8,638   11,771      50.000
Rubber                                                714      1,554    2,589    1 9
Manufactures                                   ..   2.287    23.487   32.964
Totalimports(cif)                                    14,056    41,286   51.347                             m
Food                                           8. 12             868if    997      anD2               n       l
Fuel and energy                                      2,870     3,841    4,333      10,000
Capital goods                                  ..   5.394    16,712   21,114
Exportpnceindex(1987=100)                       ..      121       137                       0   91  92   3    4   9i  956
Impont price index (1987=100)                   ..       aS        127        -                    Exports   nimports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..      143        108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(mil9lons US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and non-factorservices      6,981   19,371     51,812   59,474      D
Imports of goods and nonfactor services      6,775   17,840    50,086   57.967           s0   s.0    93   94 |        5       |
Resource balance                               207    1,531      1,726    1,506 8,
Net factor income                           -1,342   -3.542     -7,457   -8.935
Net current transfers                           27                487      -337     -2  
Current account balance,                                 8                            ] l                                     I
before official transfers                  -1.108   -1,923     -5,244   -7,766     -3t 
Financing items (net)                         257       962      6,621    12,733
Changes in net reserves                       851       961     -1,377    4,968     A 4
Memo:                                                                                                                         I
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           592   13,184    26,139   27,519
Conversion rate (ocalUSP)                    415.0  1,110.6    2,248.6  2,337.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1994     1995    r                                          I
(millions US$)                                                                      ComposItion of total debt, 1995 Imill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        11,499   36,715    96.543  107,831
IBRD                                         57    3,590      12,008   12,503                              A
IDA                                         318       844       776       756              G             12503 B
22350     -r       796
Total debt servce                            1.060    5,823     14,272   16.419                                   6750
IBRD                                          2       394      2,156    1,875              9/9\
IDA                                            2       12        26        26   |
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                               69      136       218       249                                 /   E
Official creditors                          515       980      1,615    1,101                                   31221
Private creditors                          1,749      154      1,967    2,428             F         _|'
Foreign direct investment                   476       310      2,109    4,500           34251
Portfolio equity                               0        0      3.672    4.873
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 311    1,068       1,538    1,312      A- 1BRD                     E- Bilaterel
Disbursements                                184      777      1,184    1.044     13- DA    0- Other mulblateral  F - Prvte
Pnrinpal repayments                            0      133      1,259      975      C-IMF                       G- Short-tamb
Net flows                                    164      944        -76       69    1
Interest payments                              3      262       922       929
Net transfers                                160      382       -998     -857
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                     2120197
Note: Govemment finance and trade fiscal year (April to March). 1996 trade data am projections and are not comparable with historical data.






6t-AthN0                                                                                   Jt                                                                                            INDONESIA
\ S)   . PHILIPPINES                                               SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
-LAYSIA                                 '                              3 9 BRUNE                                                                               A Partnership and Family Approach
PROJECT PROVINCES
0      PROViNCE HEADQUARTERS
(                                                                                                                       -                     *      N~~~~~~~~MAASI  AAiONAL CAPITAL
-- S 4=  SINGAPORE                                                                 :8.                                                                                  INTEM4ATIONAL ROUNDJES
A3 | ., O O t                                                                                                                                                                                             -        NORTH... N   PACIFIC OCEAN
oA   WTA          '              -                                                         orovo                         I                                                                                                                       JolOepoCo
*              O. YMCAT   TARA RDg                            '  X YO'YAKA rA
o~ '          J1'  -,,AW UN                                              .  G0 B<                                                       ..d ,    '        r  '                                                                                                   * |   C
UNGT                                                       -'-- u-
JAN  AoModooS
SUMATER RAPT                              '77~8 
SUMWTEIA UTMA
LI.EAE                                                 -J_ AK'ARTA
t   'UANANOAN RARAT                                Ro! Ro
KALJAWATN SEATNGI                                                                                                                           PI
KrMANtlAWN .TAUR                    t. G
SAJA    SEIATAN                                                                                       M
LAWM IINGGARAINANO AN,                                                                                                                                                                                         ,      0
AU IRIAN                                                 OC EAN
NSA TENGGARA RARAT                                                                                              234                                 '4                                           ___________
NUSA TENGOARA TIMUR                                                                                                        -                                     I                               ' r S.u                      ,
-. LKU          fin0- nopoo poopod b Oh. Mop Dnoig Uofin.fTh.odd8ok.
:OE TiMUR      thr onlaonAioiopdo nortilo.yno An poCi. .    -V/    o .                                                                                                                                    AUSTRALIA                                       co
oo /or,ophot oo h. boot doOn of on tooq r,o _no.,.t









IMAGING
Report No.:        i6624  IND
Type:     PAD



