Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4207 IND
Loan Agreement
(Safe Motherhood Project: A Partnership and Family Approach)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 4, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4207 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
Page  2
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“BDD” means Bidan Di Desa, a village midwife; 
(b)
“BKKBN” means Badan Koordinasi Keluarga Berencana Nasional, the 
Borrower’s National Family Planning Coordinating Board; 
(c)
“CPMU” means the Central Project Management Unit established and 
maintained in the office of the Deputy for Planning and Program Analysis of BKKBN 
pursuant to Decree No. 136/HK.104/D1/97 of May 29, 1997, issued by the State Minister 
of Population/Chairman of BKKBN of the Borrower, in accordance with paragraph 1(a) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and responsible for coordinating Project activities at 
the central level; 
(d)
“CPS” means the Central Project Secretariat established and maintained in 
the Planning Bureau of BKKBN pursuant to Decree No. 136/HK.104/D1/97 of May 29, 1997, 
issued by the State Minister of Population/Chairman of BKKBN of the Borrower, in 
accordance with paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and responsible for 
assisting the CPMU with the coordination of overall Project activities, including 
monitoring and evaluation, administration of procurement and financial accounts and 
technical audits;
(e)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing April 1 
and ending March 31; 
(f)
“IEC” means information, education and communication;
(g)
“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative sub-division within a 
Project Province; 
(h)
“MOEC” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Culture and any 
successor thereto; 
(i)
“MOH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and any successor thereto; 
(j)
“MORA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Religious Affairs and any 
successor thereto; 
(k)
“MOSA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Social Affairs and any successor 
thereto; 
(l)
“PPMUs” means the Provincial Project Management Units established and 
maintained in the provincial office of BKKBN (Kanwil) in each Project Province, 
Page  3
pursuant to Decree No. 136/HK.104/D1/97 of May 29, 1997, issued by the State Minister 
of Population/Chairman of BKKBN of the Borrower, in accordance with paragraph 1(c) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement and responsible for coordinating Project activities at 
the provincial level, and “PPMU” means any one of such units; 
(m)
“PPSs” means the Provincial Project Secretariats established and 
maintained by the Project Provinces in the provincial office of BKKBN (Kanwil) in each 
Project Province, pursuant to Decree No. 136/HK.104/D1/97 of May 29, 1997, issued by 
the State Minister of Population/Chairman of BKKBN of the Borrower, in accordance with 
paragraph 1 (d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and responsible for assisting the 
PPMUs with the overall coordination of Project activities at the provincial level, 
including monitoring and evaluation, and administration of procurement and financial 
accounts; and “PSS” means any one of such secretariats;
(n)
“Project Provinces” means the Borrower’s Provinces of Central Java and 
East Java; and “Project Province” means any one of such provinces; 
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(p)
“Targeted Performance-Based Contract” means a contract entered into 
between a Kabupaten health office and a BDD, for the delivery of specific public 
health services to a village and the delivery of specific private health services to 
the poor in such a village. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty two 
million five hundred thousand dollars ($42,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a state 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on June 15 
and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Page  4
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, educational, health, and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  5
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Acting Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment (excluding
  2,300,000    
100% of foreign
vehicles)
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 65%
of local expenditures for
other items procured 
locally
(2)
IEC and instructional
  9,200,000    
70%
materials
(3)
In-country fellowships,
  9,900,000    
60%
training and workshops
(4)
Studies and overseas
  8,600,000    
100%
fellowships
(5)
Services under Targeted
  2,600,000    
100%
Performance-Based 
Contracts including 
consultants’ services 
and training under
Part A.1(c)(i), (ii),
and (iv) of the Project
(6)
Project administration
  1,000,000    
70%
under Part C of
the Project
(7)
Emergency obstetrical
  3,400,000    
100% incurred in
services FY 
1997/1998, 
FY 1998/1999, and
FY 1999/2000; and
25% incurred after
FY 1999/2000
(8)
Consultants’ services
  3,500,000    
80%
other than under Part
A.1 (c) of the Project
(9)
Unallocated
  2,000,000    
TOTAL
 42,500,000    
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
Page  7
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “Project administration” means Project related expenditures by 
the CPMU, the CPS, the PPMUs and the PPSs for administrative costs including travel, 
consumables and office supplies, but excluding salaries; and
(d)
the term “emergency obstetrical services” means expenditures under Part 
A.1 (b) (vi) of the Project for: drugs and medical supplies provided to the patient; 
fees of service providers; and the cost of accommodations at health centers, clinics 
and hospitals, payable at a rate not exceeding MOH standard rates applicable to Level 
III-type accommodations at public hospitals. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing 
less  than  $200,000  equivalent  each; (ii) fellowships,  training,  and  workshops; 
(iii) services under Targeted Performance-Based Contracts; (iv) emergency obstetrical 
services; (v) Project administration; (vi) in-house studies not requiring the 
procurement of external consultants’ services under category (4) costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (vii) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each, and contracts for the employment of 
individuals valued at less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in improving the 
maternal health status and reducing the maternal mortality and morbidity, through a 
partnership and family approach, in the Provinces of Central Java and East Java.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Activities in the Project Provinces 
1.
Improving the Maternal Health Status and the Utilization and Sustainability of 
Maternal 
Health Services at the Village Level
(a)
Promotion of maternal health services through: (i) the carrying out of 
IEC campaigns; (ii) the development and implementation of a communications strategy 
for maternal health services; and (iii) the training in the delivery of IEC campaigns 
of staff of BKKBN, MOH, the Project Provinces, and representatives of relevant 
community and private institutions.
(b)
Improving the supply of maternal health services in the Project Provinces 
through: (i) the provision of in-service training for health service providers and the 
provision of related instructional materials; (ii) the development and implementation 
of standard operating procedures for emergency obstetric and neonatal care; (iii) the 
revision and implementation of guidelines  for  health  providers  for  anemia  
control; (iv) the provision of medical equipment to BDDs, sub-health centers, health 
centers and hospitals at the Kabupaten level; (v) the carrying out of surveys and 
research on maternal health issues at the provincial level; and (vi) the provision of 
emergency obstetric care at health centers, clinics and public and private hospitals 
to needy patients, referred especially by BDDs.
(c)
Strengthening the sustainability of  the maternal and reproductive health 
services at the village  level  through:  (i) the establishment of pilot 
Page  8
group-practice models for BDDs, including provision of in-service training to BDDs; 
(ii) the establishment of a pilot scheme of Targeted Performance-Based Contracts for 
BDDs, including training for BDDs; (iii) the financing of specific projects for the 
refurbishing and equipping of clinics as private practices of BDDs; and (iv) the 
carrying out of research and evaluations relating to the pilots in (i) and (ii) above. 
2.
Increasing the Demand for and Access to High Quality Family Planning Services
Increasing the technical competence and the counseling skills of family planning 
service providers through: 
(a)
the development and implementation of client-oriented IEC programs to 
promote the demand for high quality family planning services among individuals and 
families; 
(b)
the training of service providers in family planning services and in 
counseling skills; 
(c)
the provision of medical and IEC equipment and related supplies to family 
planning providers; and  (d) the establishment and implementation of quality assurance 
programs. 
3.
Preparing Adolescents for Healthy Reproductive Lives
Increasing the knowledge and awareness of adolescents in reproductive health 
issues through: 
(a)
the carrying out of an in-depth assessment of counseling needs; 
(b)
the strengthening of adolescent counseling, services and education 
through parent and family education programs, community group educational programs, 
in-school and out-of-school programs; and 
(c)
the carrying out of mass media campaigns.
Part B:
Central Government Activities 
1.
Technical Support and Training
Provision of technical support to Project Provinces and provision of training to 
central and provincial staff for: 
(a)
the development of training strategies and guidelines for BDDs and health 
service providers; 
(b)
the development of IEC strategies for maternal and reproductive health; 
(c)
the development of curricula and teaching methodology for  adolescent  
reproductive  health; 
(d)
the provision of training and fellowships to central and Provincial staff 
in the areas of reproductive health and related fields; and 
(e)
the strengthening of the capacity of the Project Provinces in the 
implementation of maternal health, family planning and adolescent health activities 
under the Project.
2.
Policy, Research and Evaluation
(a)
Carrying out of policy studies in the areas of maternal and reproductive 
health, including BDD training strategy, sustainability of BDD programs, and 
assessment of reproductive health issues, including sexually-transmitted diseases, and 
dissemination of the results of the policy studies through seminars, workshops and 
publications.
(b)
Carrying out of Project monitoring and evaluation activities, including: 
baseline and follow-up surveys, rapid assessments and special evaluation studies, data 
Page  9
analysis, and dissemination workshops, in the area of reproductive health.
(c)
Strengthening the capacity of BKKBN, MOEC, MOH, MORA, MOSA, and the 
Project Provinces to monitor and evaluate activities under the Project through the 
provision of technical assistance.
Part C:
Project Administration
Strengthening of Project administration capabilities of the CPMU, the CPS, the 
PPMUs, and the PSSs through the provision of advisory services, office equipment and 
supplies. 
*          *          * 
The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Page  10
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin,  applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the  Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, 
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly 
upon the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
Page  11
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after December 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
 General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which should be procured as an extension of an existing contract, must be 
purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment, or are 
of a proprietary nature, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract for goods not governed by paragraph 2 
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
 Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants to carry out field research under Part A.3(b) of the 
Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
 Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the carrying out of studies under Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for the carrying out of studies and research under Parts A.1, A.2 (a), 
A.3 and B.2 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the carrying out of policy analysis and evaluation under Parts A.1, 
A.2 (a), B.1 and B.2 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  13
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for the carrying out of surveys under Part B.2 (b) of the Project which 
are estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5.
Individual Consultants
Services for the staffing of the CPMU, the PPMUs, the PCS and the PPSs that meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project:
(a)
a CPMU, in accordance with terms of reference, staffing and resources 
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
a CPS, in accordance with terms of reference, staffing and resources 
acceptable to the Bank;
(c)
a PPMU in each of the Project Provinces, in accordance with terms of 
reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank; and
(d)
a PPS in each of the Project Provinces, in accordance with terms of 
reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1999, and June 30, 2002, prepare and furnish 
to the Bank for comments, the terms of reference for the carrying out of technical 
audits of Project implementation;
(b)
not later than July 31, 2000, and November 30, 2002, cause such technical 
audits to be carried out, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank; and
Page  14
(c)
promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank for comments a copy of such 
technical audits.
3.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than September 15, in each year, until the completion of the 
Project furnish to the Bank, a report in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request integrating:  (i) the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and (ii) a description of Project activities proposed for the next Fiscal Year;
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31, in each year, until the completion 
of the Project, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to 
in subparagraph (b) of this Section and carry out an annual Project implementation 
review;
(d)
at the third annual review, carry out a comprehensive mid-term assessment 
of  Project implementation; and
(e)
promptly thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the reviews carried out pursuant to paragraphs (c) 
and (d) of this Section, and the Bank views on the matter.
4.
In carrying out the studies described under Parts A and  B. 2 of the Project, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the studies in accordance with terms of reference and timing 
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank for comments, not later than four months after the 
completion of each such study, the recommendations of said study; and
(c)
promptly thereafter prepare an action plan taking into account the 
comments of the Bank on the recommendations of said study.
5.
In carrying out the training described under Parts A.1(a), A.1(b), A.1(c), A.2 
(a),  A.2 (b), A.2 (d), A.3 (b), and B.1 (d) of the Project, the Borrower shall carry 
out such training in accordance with programs and implementation timetables acceptable 
to the Bank.
6.
In carrying out Part A. 1 (c) (ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 1, 1998, furnish to the Bank for comments the draft 
model Targeted Performance-Based Contract; promptly thereafter revise such model \0c
taking into account the Bank’s comments; and, thereafter, enter into Targeted 
Performance-Based Contracts with BDDs on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 3 
of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A.1 (c) (ii) of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of such Part of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date.
7.
In carrying out Part A.1 (b) (vi) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
Page  15
(a)
not later than March 1, 1998, furnish to the Bank for review and 
comments, the MOH guidelines relating to the provision of emergency obstetric services 
in the Project Provinces; and, promptly thereafter, revise and implement the 
guidelines taking into account the Bank’s comments; and 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 3 
of this Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part A.1 (b) (vi) of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of such Part of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date.
8.
In carrying out Parts A.1, A.2 and B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 1, 1998, establish and, thereafter, maintain until 
completion of the Project, a central technical committee and provincial technical 
committees in the Project Provinces, to review and assess the contents of IEC 
activities under Parts A.1, A.2 and B.1 of the Project; 
(b)
not later than June 30, 1998, cause a technical review to be carried out, 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, of the IEC message development and of 
the implementation plan for the IEC activities under the Project; and, promptly 
thereafter, furnish the results of the review to the Bank for comments; and
(c)
not later than December 31, 1998, cause a technical review to be carried 
out, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, of the IEC strategy and its 
implementation; and, promptly thereafter, furnish the results of the review to the 
Bank for comments. 
SCHEDULE 6 
Project Performance Indicators 
1.
Improving the utilization of maternal health services
(a)
Percentage increase in deliveries assisted by BDDs, and by trained health 
providers: 
(i)
at least 20%  increase over the baseline at Project mid-term 
review; and 
(ii)
at least 50% increase over the baseline at Project completion. 
(b)
At least 60% of cases with obstetric complications referred to health 
facilities providing emergency obstetric care, at Project completion. 
2.
Improving the sustainability of maternal health services at the village level 
Evaluation of results of the BDD pilot projects, especially those carried out 
under the Targeted Performance-Based Contracts, finalized at Project completion. 
3.
Increasing the access to high quality family planning services
Percentage increase in a quality index of family planning services:
(i)
at least 20% increase over the baseline at Project mid-term 
review; and
(ii)
at least 50% increase over the baseline at Project completion. 
4.
Preparing adolescents for healthy reproductive lives
Percentage increase of knowledge about reproductive health issues among 
adolescents:
(i)
at least 10% increase over the baseline at Project mid-term 
Page  16
review; and
(ii)
at least 30% increase over the baseline at Project completion.
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (8) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $2,700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,400,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
Page  17
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished  
to  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
