Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24248
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(iDA-28580; PPFi-P7530j
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 67.8 MILLION (US$ 100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
June 21, 2002
Transport
Africa Reirnn
I This document has a restricted distibiitinn and may be used by ren-'nipnk nnlv in the nerfnnrmanee nf their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(cn           E
Currency Unit =  Cedis
I Cedis =  US$ 0.00013
USS I =   Cedis 1,550 (Appraisal)
US$1  =   Cedis 7,860
FICtAL VYAD
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMISU             Accounting and Management Information System Unit
BRRI              Building and Roads Research Institute
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
CMS               Contract Management System
DANIDA            Danish intemnational Development Agency
DFR               Department of Feeder Roads
DURID             Departm.ent of IIUrban Roads
EIA               Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR               FEnnnmoi Rate nf Return
GHA               Ghana Highway Authority
GHC               Ghanaian Cedis
GOG               Govemment of Ghana
HDM               Highway Design and Maintenance Model
HSIP              Highway Sector Investment Program
ICB               lntemational Competitive Bidding
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               Intemational Development Association
IT                information Technology
LAN               Local Area Network
MOF      -   ~~~Ministry of Flinancer
MRH               Ministry of Roads and Highways
MRT               Ministrv nr Roads and Tr2nnnnrt
MTEF              Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NCB               National Competitive Bidding
NDPC              National Development Planning Commission
NRSC              National Road Safety Commission
NPV               Net Present Value
PMMS              Pavement Maintenance Management System
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
PRSP              Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAG               Quality Assurance Group
RF                Road Fund
RSDP              Road Sector Development Program
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
T>n  ~      ~~~~ ... sAoR DA-,rcc
TRP-I             Transport Rehabilitation Project I
TRP=2             Transprt R>ehabilif-ation P._;_ect 
VOC               Vehicle Operating Costs
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
CoUuntry IManagerlDr.r      Pe..; CJ.-Haold
~..UII) Ii4I4~LPILL-ULUE.  a I . .
Sector Manager/Director:   Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task -eani LCeu,iI^k MvIanaer      .awi Ad



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Obhective and Outnuts                                              a
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               12
u. - U:naSOuhlIJ-                                                                   X ,
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  16
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                          27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                30
Annex 3. Economic Costs andtBenefits                                                32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                34
Annex 5. Rati rtgs for Achie-eent of Objectives.Out-uts of Components               37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Bonower Performance                                    38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               39






jProject ID: P000957                                     jProject Name: Highway Sector Investment Program
Team Leader: Tawia Addo-Ashong                           TL Unit: AFTIR
|ICR Type: Core ICR                                      |Report Date: June 24, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Highway Sector Investment Program             IJC/TF]Number: IDA-28580;
PPFI-P7530
Country/Department: GHANA                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   08/23/91                               Effective: 10/24(96          01/31/97
Appraisal:  03/15/95                                 MTR: 09/15/98              12/04198
Approval:  05/14/96                               Closing: 06/30/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MIN OF ROADS & TRANSPORT
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                          Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Peter C. Harrold                          Ngozi N. Okonjo-lweala
Sector Manager:      Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard              James Otis Wright
Team Leader at ICR:  Tawia Addo-Ashong                        Alan Coulthart
ICR Primary Author:  Tawia Addo-Ashong
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Hi2hly Unsatisfactoryv H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Nealieible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
.h.s,itu,tionan fL.ear.nopme  Im.r.pac!: S
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Oualitv at Entrv.                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The ehietive of fthi Prnipft as gtftpd in the S'aff Aprnncal sa!nRrt (S,A I) ,w in ,ascist the rZ^r.iAmA",nt nf
Ghana (GOG) to increase economic growth, thereby promoting poverty alleviation through the reduction of
vehicle oy.p.raing costs by: (a) maintaining r.. ab.l.dili.3ang a recnfrctng nro; and vu) nno,.rnn
sustained improvements in the road sector by: (i) developing and implementing cost recovery policies; (ii)
1w AArAAAkAss fib. . r g sslobA __ s +AA4_A . _Al __A.  .   _ AU  -   ._-A _  -A 1  _  A_  -_ -_
uuAzfl8r, *sntuCu t9aty all u1. puuaa. Cu pFtvatw  . I2 GnU I    vilJ 1hIiLUVII8 liliait-IdU IaIIa6uII1IvL
control in the Roads Sector.
The objectives were clear, relevant and consistent with the Ghana Govemment's strategy for reducing
poverty by increasing growtn, with a focus on uhe agricuitural secior, as stated in ihe Country Assistance
Strategy (May 1995). The broad objectives of the CAS were to support poverty alleviation, capacity
uilding, pinvate sector development and to create conditions for sustainaole environmeniai development.
The objectives were also in line with the objectives set out by the Govemment's Letter of Sector Policy,
dated February i996. T-ne contents of this letter were a joint elTort between govemment, stakeholders, road
user groups and development partners active within the road sector. The principal immediate aim as stated
in the letter was to clear the backlog of road maintenance on a sustainable long-term basis. In achieving
this, the objectives as set out in the letter were:
*   Strengthening the organizational structure and institutional capacity of the Ministry and its agencies
*   Clearing the backlog of rehabilitation and periodic maintenance work
*   Basing.road sector investment decisions on sound economic principles, and giving the highest priority
to routine and periodic maintenance
*   Improving cost recovery to ensure the sustained funding of maintenance
*   Promoting greater private sector participation, both in the execution of works and in the financing of
transport infrastructure
*   Reducing the dependence on foreign technical assistance, increasing training and performance of local
staff
*   Improving the capacity to evaluate the environmental impact of road schemes and design mitigation
measures
*   Regaining sector-wide discipline in expenditure management and control
*   Streamlining transport regulations, enforcing axle weight reaulations. enhancing road safety and
improving traffic management
*   CGiving nrinritv tn the deveinnment of ndn-mntnri trnnrt nii imnrnvinc fnriitipe fnr th,ir ..e
and
S Lrenn ntbpnu. Anninr pnn^r,lnf inn onA4 -ml ~1n  A                            .-r.nnnn.,nnotnn.anvnA
,,-'t.en o ... r, donowo.rdnto and s..li;.. ga, ",poigpoue-"et       oioig.
reporting procedures for donor supported and Ghana Govemment programs.
3.2 Revised Obiective:
The original objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project/program consisted of three main components directed towards the Ministry and Ghana
Highway Authority (GHA). These were: (a) Trunk road rehabilitation and maintenance (b) Institutional
strengthening and capacity building, and (c) Policy reform.
(a)Trunk road rehahilitation and maintenance (GHA) ISS75.1 millionn This comnonent envered three
main areas:



(i) Rehabilitation and periodic maintenance - The credit was to hclp clear the backlog of maintenance
works incurred by GHA by financing about 900/0 of rehabilitation works in the Brong Ahafo and Central
Regions of the country, as well as about 770 km of periodic maintenance throughout the country. Also to
be undertaken were 90 km of rehabilitation. The periodic maintenance works were to be undertaken mainly
by local contractors, whilst the rehabilitation works were packaged as ICB contracts. The periodic
maintenance works comprised regravelling, resealing and resurfacing. Rehabilitation works consisted of
rebuilding the entire road structure, without any widening or realignment of the original road.
(ii) Improvement of hazardous road sections (GHA) - This component provided spot improvements to
major accident-prone spots identified on the trunk road system around the country. through the provision of
road signs, guard rails and other road furniture.
(iii) Bridge rehabilitation and reconstruction (GHA) - Bridges in the Brong Ahafo Region and specific
bridges in sther regions were to he reconstructed and rehabilitated to eomnlement the maintenannce workc to
be done.
(b) Institutional strengthening and capacity building (GHA) US$26 million.
It was expected that lcgislation would be passcd to amend the GHA Decree to specify the composition and
-f- -- c   of d4c  1-1 A  n   -s, ..A  i-  -k ,., .  fiko  .i..-..  ,f- .  t..., ...'IA  - ..A  -...n-
s.   0 ....s . of   to. GH.A . .oa.- and  enable  t    o--.  et n I  S.f*. uild.,  af z.d  ..n ..ain.tai
contracts with the private sector. A maintenance management system, designed under a previous IDA
p,-ojcct, was 'wo be-' upudz'.ed and up;.A-ed A ma- -eren ino..:nsse  MS)as  eig,du.e
the previous project was to be implemented and GIIA staff were to be trained in its operation. Other
technical assis tance envisagc-d -was the rest-u.lishmen;I of a bridgez condifion andu n-.ainWIltumv byM401, ils, .
services of accounts and an internal auditor and short term assistance to review quarry privatization, axle
load regula'uons and asscssment of training needs and facilities. Also expected was tecnnicai assistance for
implementing the Authority's MIS, updating and upgrading of their Maintenance Management System.
Engineering design and feasibility studies of about 2,600 km of the trunk road network, and supervision of
all contracts were to be undertaken by local and international consulting firns. The provision of equipment
for GHA;s mobile maintenance units and vehicles for the staff of GHA would facilitate emergency works
and enhance the Authority's capacity to supervise works. An extension to GHA's central material
laboratory would provide adequate space to house equipment that had been recently acquired. Internal and
external training programs were to be organized for GHA staff and local training programs were to be
organized for local contractors. To help retain qualified staff, staff housing was to be provided in the
regions as well as at Headquarters in Accra.
(c) Support to MRT/NDPC
MRT's technical assistance involving the provision of a Claims and Legal Specialist was to enable the
Ministry to evaluate claims and settle disputes from contractors to whom they owed arrears. Support to the
Accounting and Management Information Unit (AMISU) of the Ministry was to enable the unit to continue
carrying out its functions of project coordination and financial management. In addition, it was envisaged
that AMISU would carrv out baseline and follow-up studies to monitor the developmental impact of the
program. Support was also to be provided to the newly established Road Fund Secretariat for the first two
years. after which it was to become self-financing. The support to NDPC was largely aimed at continuing
support provided under the previous TRP- I project and entailed providing further technical assistance, field
studie,p rePan'h, onprnfinnnl workshons staff Tdevelonmnt and tr_inini n   also entailed Ioaistiral siinnort
required in the process of implementing, monitoring and evaluation of the first five year development plan



with a special focus on the transport sector.
The project provided funds for MRT to procure vehicles, office equipment and computers to enable the
ministry to continue to facilitate its overall coordination and oversight functions, organize training
programs for local contractors, enhance policy formulation and donor coordination and progress monitoring
functions.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were not revised throughout the life of the project.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is rated as satisfactory. The project was prepared through the active participation of
all stakeholders in the road sector. It attempted to respond to the Govemment's desire for a sector wide
approach for interventions in the road sector. Therefore the design incorporated a portion of the
Government's own program for the road sector over the subsequent four years. Issues that would be
critical to the sustainability of the project, such as the arrears owed to road contractors and institutional
reform needed, were clearly identified and steps were taken to address them prior to appraisal and
negotiations. Substantial portions of the main civil works were designed prior to project implementation
with the aid of a Project Preparation facility (PPF). Lessons leamed from previous bank projects in Ghana
were incorporated into project design.
Preparations of detailed engineering designs and bid documents were completed for all of the road works to
be funded by IDA and were reviewed during appraisal. This helped to speed up implementation of the
project after effectiveness. A detailed economic analysis of all roads to be constructed under the project
was performed.
Environmental issues were addressed upfront and the lack of capacity to imnlement the environmental
mitigation plan was tackled with the implementing agency recruiting an environmental specialist to monitor
and ailsn build their canacity to handle environmental concerns.
R.isks were clea.rly identified and assessed. The major risk of su tainability of benefits ar:ieng frrom road
improvements was addressed by getting the Govemment's commitment to increase the levy on vehicle fuel
on an. ann.ual .o..s to me.-t 1u,e fi.!.! cost of mainthinif ir ro.ad ne:work.
I.- .ain imp4r-- I Alemen:ingWt  a.ie, MRT  G-HIIU JI Ark, WeIr pJa1.i.ioe  III pt,Jl-ojec pi  and4I91 4IIU UIeU %apacjiL7
to implement the program was identified. There was no parallel project management unit set up to manage
the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. The project achieved the broad objective of
achieving cost effective road transport and reducing_ overtv by increasing growth through maintaining.
rehabilitating and reconstructing roads. It partially achieved the objective of sustaining improvements
through the develnpment nf the lhical canncitv in both nrivate and nlhluie- sectnrr and imnrmving finneial
management control in the sector.
Objective 1 - Reduction in Vehicle Operating Costs and Poverty Reduction
Socio-economic studies undertaken during the implementation period show that improved road



u-ansporiaLin hasW uiIepeU LU gUIM1UL gEUWUI dO U-eUUce pUveIty Uy IVW%IIIIg U41ni;jAJLLiUII %,VLo 4saU
stimulating development of markets. This has encouraged the farmers located in the corridors of
renabiiiateu roaus to increawV pWducuUnU1U nda oII(ZI7d UIM Lem f uheULU1LY op  UV . U Uy min4IUig IL Casier
to obtain inputs and sell outputs.
The study identifies that benefits have accrued to the rural economy; overall transport expenditures on the
rehabilitated routes have decreased by about 10%; there is an estimated 25% increase in farm incomes;
16.2% increase in incomes of people engaged in commercial and service activities along the routes; and
12% increase in industrial activities with corresponding increase of 25% in incomes of people engaged in
this sector along the program roads.
There is an increase in average daily traffic of 90/g and reductions in travel and waiting times of 22% and
30%, respectively. There has been a fare reduction of 5% in relative terms. Overall transport expenditures
on the rehabilitated routes have decreased by about 10%
Furthermore, improved road transportation has made it easier for people to go to school, obtain medical
attention and have regular interaction with agricultural extension officers. It has generated employment
and brought about social equity and political unity by helping to integrate the poor and other vulnerable
groups into the mainstream Ghanaian society.
Inmprovemnent in Renmoval ofMain tenance Backlog
A key development objective of the program was to support Govemment in its effort to clear the huge road
maintenance backlog, which hitherto had been identified as one of the main constraints limiting growth in
the economy. The overall achievements of the sector during the program period show the cumulative
pDcrformance of the three sector agencies as follows: GHA achieved 54% performance on routine
maintenance activities, 33% on periodic maintenance activities and 125% on rehabilitation; DFR achieved
24% nerformance on routine maintenance activities. 33% on Deriodic maintenance activities and 78% on
rehabilitation; DUR achieved 79% performance on routine maintenance activities and 67% on periodic
maint-nskaPnee ativities.
The IDA component. of the p.-oPAm. h2c ciOnt.rik,utd Sit difi',^nitlu tn tht. imprnovmPnt in the paved rri
condition mix in GHA, which shows the percentage of paved roads in good condition improving from
2Q.4% fw A00.4 dur.ng .e pAuJg ..            nhe oven!! ondition mlx .naved and unpaved…
declined during the program period.
Condition of the Network
In spite of the achievements recorded in maintenance, financial limitations precluded consistent attention to
a substantial ponion o0 ihe natinio  trunIK ,oad r,etwok.s. .e overall condditiau mix ui u IV1 G- ne.6voW
demonstrates a gradual deterioration. The percentage of roads in good condition was expected to improve
from 45% in i996 to 52% in tne year 2000. Actuai condiiuon on inc grounu gives Indication uo uih
contrary, as the network condition deteriorated from 45% to 23% good in year 2001. A major factor for
this deterioration was the lack of attention to the unpaved network of secondaary roads which makes up
about 60% of GHA's network. The focus of theirinterventions were rehabilitation, resealing and
upgrading, leading to a sharp fall in the condition of the of the gravel roads, only 2% were in good
condition in 2001. The change in the method of measurement of the condition of the network was another
contributory factor.
-5-



Objective 2 - Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building.
Local consultants and in-house design teams undertook the design and supervision of almost all the
maintenance works financed under the IDA component of the program. The support to the local
construction industry was equally significant; local contractors were responsible for the execution of over
1000 km (100%) of roads awarded on contract under National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Training
programs instituted for local contractors covered the improvement of both technical and managerial skills.
The program supported about a thousand employees of GHA to attend various seminars/conferences/
workshops, short courses/attachments/study tours and higher level training organized locally and outside
the country. Staff from the Ministry enjoyed similar opportunities. To demonstrate the commitment to
satisfying longer term training needs in the GHA, the program supported the design of a training center, the
design of which has been completed, land purchased and fenced.
The program supported a comprchensive housing scheme in Accra and in other regional centers for the
staff of GHA. which has helned to retain nrofessional staff of the Authority. The nrogram also sunnorted
the procurement about 220 pieces of equipment, including about 140 vehicles for distribution to all GHA
offices in the t'oiintry With theee vehicleq there iq a renorted inereqw in the mnhilitv of H.14A stnff wi*th
roads in all regions being inspected regularly.
The program gave support to the ongoing program in GlIA to restructure its staff to levels commensurate
,viah thm new policy- dr.ction of- 'nt-'A.Atmn cn ain spcified  ti-te   .,piate sctor. A vaiUable
statistics indicate that GHA still has 40% surplus ofjunior staff, after the 1994/5 retrenchment involving
'700 wo*er. 'n 1999 an pla was- p.-ezd --A C  .-e rcchen of - abu:87 s'zf infurbhso 161,
f 'J'  W LM~.O.  III I 97J   0 j.DIEG   Wa3 FJ1%1J01..m  V~I tlI~  Vi.~I~EI I~,i  aVV,U% UV f  Lil III IVUU  UCI,11.ui3 VI1 1IV&
161, 241 and 324. This did not take place and-the staff level remains at over 3000.
GHA has over the years lost a number of the much-needed professional staff through attrition and
resibg.aiuuon anu Has not rep:aceu uirn all. it is euirnated 'a in ti La CegOines ofiengineering sta,i, Udwer
professional staff, technical and supervisory staff and works superintendents, approximately 50°/0 of the
__ .   I   -  -  .        -   I.
requirea staff positions are not filled.
Objective 3 - Policy Reform. issues addressed by the project include cost recovery, private sector
financing, increased environmental sensitivity, axle load control and road safety. The outcome of this
component was satisfactory and the key areas are discussed below.
Cost Recovery - Restructuring the Road Fund
Following the reorganization of the fund and the enactment of the Road Fund Act in 1997 there has been
systematic revision of the petroleum levy, which is its main source of revenue. However the unstable
financial position of the Government in 1999 and 2000 affected this gradual increase and also put to test
the Government's commitment, in allowing the fund to be used for its intended purpose. In 1999, the Road
Fund account at the Bank of Ghana was virtually frozen, with annual disbursements less than half of the
agreed figures. Increases in the fuel levy were delayed and this. coupled with the sharp devaluation of the
national currency, resulted in a significant shortfall of the funding necessary for maintenance requirements.
The Road Fund revenues were decreased from about US$80 million to about US$48 million. resultingu in a
corresponding decrease of maintenance covered from 80% to less than 50%1a. The Secretariat has been run
efficiently and professionally and the iue of fiunds is transparent The reliability of the fiund allowed the
agencies to plan and implement satisfactory annual maintenance programs. However, the rationale for
a!!oation of funds across the different agencies remains unclear and needs to be fnrmalized.
-6 -



Private Sector Financing of Road Schemes
Though private sector participation in the implementation of road programs received ample support under
the IDA component, no progress was made over the program period as the basic conditions for such
initiatives are not fully in place. The program financed a study of the trunk road network to determine the
viability of tolling in Ghana and to identify potential roads suitable for tolling. However the outputs from
this study was not satisfactory to GHA.
Sound Financial Management and Control Needed in the Sector
Financial management in the sector continued to be less than satisfactory. In spite of agreement reached
during HSIP nrenaration. on reducing the backlog of outstanding payment from US$75 million to zero by
year 2000, and the adoption of a criteria for starting new works, the backlog had been reduced to only
US547 million by Deember 20WM  Although the nractice of negotiated contracts. the main cause of the
arrears problem has been stopped, there have been budget overruns as a result of signing contracts without
the necessarY financia! arrangements in place, some poor project preparation; issuing of large variations
orders, time overruns and inadequate monitoring systems in both the Ministries and the sector agencies.
T.he cw:dination betw_o the MART ond the Minis*., of Finaarce (MAPOF) wa-c ,ipifepnt rpeiting in inuibl.e
payment to some contractors and a non-systematic payment of outstanding certificates. An audit of the
01f0 a. is --ur..tl underway *A estwhlish a clear pictu.re of4 &ov...A.4.ent
However financial management of project funds was satisfactory and compliance with audit requirements
werev me;.
Regulution oj /x.e L'U"ung
I ne program supporitc measures instLituteu uy Governinerit to dali-est *I.be i higIh V.ieeI fvLIUrloainr of
vehicles experienced in the country by making funding available for the construction of six weighbridges.
T nougn construction has been ongoing since August 2000, only one siauon has ueenucomplUW, eve,.
though all imported equipment has arrived in the country.
Establishment of a National Road Safety Commission
Act 567 of 2000 has established a National Road Safety Commission with a three-year program proposed
to improve safety on roads. A Chief Executive has been appointed and a five year Road Safety Strategy
has been prepared.
Environmental Assessment
Environmental and social mitigation measures have been included in all development projects. Guidelines
have been put in place to include environmental consideration in the design and implementation of all road
projects. Steps were instituted to train staff in environmental mitigation measures. However key inputs
from the program did not yield the expected results.
Improvements in Coordination of Development Partner Activities
Regular consultations have significantly improved the relationship between the Govemment and its
develonment nartners. A donor coordination unit has been established and staffed with professionals with
adequate qualifications. An annual donor conference has become a regular feature of sector activities.
-7-



4.2 Outputs by components:
Reviewing the targets as outlined in the SAR against the outputs achieved, the project's performance in
meeting physical targets and outputs was satisfactory.
(a)Trunk Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (GHA)
RehabiliJation andperiodic maintenance - Various periodic maintenance activities were planned for a
total of 26 road contracts covering 737 km in all ten regions of the country. The planned cost was estimated
at US$46.24 mnillion. A total of 46 road contracts covering 1136 km were actually completed at a total
cost of US$40.79 million. Six ICB Lots were awarded for road contracts as against 5 road ICB contracts
perceived at appraisal. A total of 16 road sections covering 428 km were resurfaced, rehabilitated and or
resealed as compared to the planned 448 km. Specifically, 321 km of roads were resealed and 108 km
rehabilitated as against the planned 355 km of resealing and 93 km of resurfacing/resealing. The
interventions were revised upwards due to the deterioration of the roads between time of design and
implementation. The total volume of work was achieved at a lower cost due to the competitiveness of the
tenders and the depreciation of the cedi against the dollar. All costs comnared favorably with the annraisal
estimates.
Rehaabilitation and Reconstruction of Bridges -Three bridges were rchabilitated under Lot 6 in the
Rrong-Ahafo region on the Tepa Junction - Goaso roaA However 7 bridges  heduled for ronstuction
under Lot 7 did not materialize due delay in procuring services of the consultant for the feasibility and
detailed engi.neAring studies.
1 i rovemner.A _0 _r D _a-r_ s A-,  _ _4--
AU&J-1    g UJ AS" IU    AMUUU .JCLS:IUI5
The Building and Road Research Institute carried out an extensive study to identify hazardous sections on
the u.un. LUoU I.A.1WWfo. 1i hsaadous sec:ions we,-e prioruz, izedvr ininediatu iEIpLUVrAl.er. UUe
technicalities, most of the planned works were not implemented.
(b) Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (GHA)
Legislative Changes - The Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) decree was amended and re-enacted by the
Parliament of the Republic of Ghana. Tne Gazette Notification was given on 3i December 1997. T he frst
Board was inaugurated in 1999 and the board was reconstituted in September 2001. The Board consists of
a Chairman and nine members. Four members of whom represent various arms of government, three other
members from road user organizations, the Chief Executive of GHA and a private individual. The new Act
540 gives GHA the full mandate to discharge their responsibilities in a more effective manner, however no
major changes have been seen in the running of the organization.
Technical Assistance
Pavement Maintenance Management System (PMMS) - The PMMS has helped to establish in GHA a
more organized and institutionalized system for collecting road condition data. It also provides a basis for
decision-making regarding the appropriate maintenance intervention for constrained and unconstrained
budgets. The system development is a continuous process and will assist the GHA to interface with other
planning tools such as the HDM-4.
Management Inforniatian Svst,m - A local firrn was hired in May I Qgg to nrovide services for the
implementation of an integrated Management Information System. The framework for the MIS, which



involves the development of an IT Strategy for GHA, was completed during the program period. The
important component of the installation of a Local Area Network (LAN), procurement of IT hardware and
Application software could not be completed. GHA has not benefited from this sub-component as
anticipated. The procurement of the hardware and accompanying software were delayed. This was
because the initial bids were non- responsive, allowing for the restarting of the bidding process. There was
also the Ministry's delay in giving the required approval after completion of evaluation.
Contract Management System (CMS) - The services for the development and installation of the CMS
were undertaken with original planned cost of US$208,400. The cost at completion after one extension
was US$285,000. The system has not been effectively utilized. There are frequent breakdowns of the
computers running the svstem and Deriodic uDdates of the svstem have not been undertaken as required.
The utilization of the system, including the responsibility for updating has not been institutionalized.
Bridge Condition and Maintenance System - The services were provided with both local and intemational
tec-hnical assistante. T"he se-rvices were suc^essfiully completed with the de^velopment of a computeri7ed
register for all GHA bridges and guidelines for bridge inspection and maintenance needs, capacity
e^valuh.ti.^n nnrI cnGfF r.-manin;n lifneasessm.nt Th. trainingoa .^f 11  _  as well asI staff from other road
agencies was also done. However, the accompanying operational manuals for the above have still not been
deliveed '.o '.he r-ie
Accoun.a.ing and Ahditi.nh  Stab,} = Two local prof.esionaa azccountants, a pV. VJct accountaant and a Funds
and Investment Accountant were engaged to assist the G1HA run its finances efficiently. The consultants
successfully Aundw _ I.ook ',hcs rcpnsbliis  -,ei -nu  a  nacdh  e,oa      fteFn,c
3U t. aUlly  un%lU,ItVUU   L11%w001 l~'l~UlI~  II K1   lllpUL  MMd 1~11El8II-V.~U  UP- tI VIIIICLLJIEEG ..~ VI LEIK; U-1IMIII..
Division of GtIA.
Toll Roads Feasibility Study - Intemational technical assistance was engaged to undertake feasibility
studies for determining the viability of toiling in Ghana. Tne study was also required to identify tne roads
that could be tolled. The project was terminated due to unsatisfactory perfonnance of the consultant.
Environmental Specialist - A local consultant was engaged for the period to help set up an Environmental
Unit and train at least one GHA staff to conduct Environmental impact Assessments and monitor the
implementation of mitigation measures. The consultant failed to complete some essential aspects of the
TOR. An EIA manual and guidelines were not produced. The Environmental Unit as set up is not
effective because the basic operational procedures were not completed by the consultant.
Bituminous Surface Dressing Specialist - The objective of this component was to improve the methods
for undertaking the surface dressing of paved roads in Ghana. Intemational consultants undertook the
services for a total period of 51 months, requiring two extensions to the original contract. The
achievements were, however, satisfactory and there has been a positive impact on the quality of surface
dressing in the roads industry. New specifications for materials and procedures for surface dressing have
been developed, and contractors and engineers have been trained. The new specifications are in use
industry-wide.
Design and Supervision - Designs originally completed under the TRP-2 and PPF advance were let out for
implementation during the project. Three hundred and twenty man months of consultant time was funded
under HSIP for the supervision by local consultants. with additional innuts for engineering designs and
feasibility studies.
i Supervision (ICB contracts) - Two local consultants were engaged to provide these services.
-9-



The services involved the design revision and supervision of the ICB road and bridge contracts in the
Eastem, Central and Volta regions. The quality of supervision was deemed to be satisfactory.
Hi. Engineering Designs and Feasibility Studies - Three intemational consultants in association
with local firms were engaged to undertake the engineering designs and feasibility studies for
approximately 800 km of roads in three zones of the country. The fourth zone had been funded and
completed by other develonment nartners. The studies were successfully completed and the final reports
submitted to the client. The previous zonal work was updated by one of the consultants.
Logistical Support - The Credit funded a limited amount of road maintenance equipment for the mobile
maintenanre units of the GHA  Fuirher support in term.e ef vehicles motnorcyeles, materials testing
equipment, communication equipment and accessories, drafting and survey supplies were provided to
enhance the su, rv, - capacity nof the rHtA.
Road.Ual::.fenance Equi..en = T---.,A .-A -rr-nnd    i. f^ Lhe mobile n.0n-n-r.o -.t.
However, one piece of equipment was not procured due to changes in priority. Other pieces not originally
wel fo w pL p.-ureU AoUtil avamI6 111adUc Iln tIh pru'.ULenltlolfL VI logIis Vic,al sUppo..II
Veaicles and Mluturcycles - T hIe numbteur vfveblces required was increased f-rom 55 to 80 to meet uhe
needs of the supervisory staff. This was possible from the savings made during the procurement. Due to
problems wiib cost recoveiry, bicycles were not procured as pianned. Ai; vehicles have been distributed to
the beneficiary staff in the regions.
Weighbridges and Weigh pads - Of the six weighbridges procured, only one has been installed. The civil
works could not be completed in time to enable the installation within the HSIP period. The weigh pads
have also been procured but cannot be put to effective use due to the long period of delay in clearing them
from the port.
Communications Equipment - The equipment has been received in the GHA Central Stores but was still
not installed by the of the project.
Central Materials Laboratory - The extension to the Central Materials Laboratory was undertaken at a
final cost of Ghanaian Cedis (GHC) 1,467,988,144. The original estimated cost was GHC 1,300,973,210.
Staff Ilousing Units - The Credit planned for the construction of 25 housing units of 2-3 bedrooms for the
professional staff. Twenty 24-bedroom bungalows were completed at the end of the HSIP period.
Additionally, I block of flats was also constructed to augment the housing stock for GHA. Renovation
works were carried out on the Head Office archives. The final cost of these works was GHC
6,877,044,613 as compared to the original cost of GHC 4,49.6,927,213.
Training - For GHA, a total of 951 members of staff were trained as compared to the appraisal estimate of
259. An amount of US$216,257 was spent on 878 staff members on local short courses. US$1,035,323
was used on 73 members of staff on overseas courses including conferences, short courses, attachments,
study tours and higher level training. A total of USS1.25million was spent out of an allocation of US$1.6
million. In addition to individual staff training, a desion for a nrnnosed Human Resource Develonment
Center was prepared by local consultants. However GHA was requested to review the viability of building
a new intituhtin uAth the nhbunancr nf training facilities and institutions already available in country.



Development of Domestic Construction Industry - The development of local contractors was to be
covered through two areas; the GHA training division and the MRT. The areas to be addressed in the
training included procedures and methods for bituminous surface dressing, business management, finance
and accounting, planning and programming of field operations. The GHA training of local contractors was
covered in the work of the Bituminous surface-dressing specialist This was very successful. The MRT
planned to train 240 local contractors at a cost of US$ 188,000, contractor operatives from 306 firms were
trained at a cost of US$170,000. In a recent joint donor evaluation of the road sector the training provided
for the local contractors was considered 'best practice'.
(c) Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building (MRT/NDPC)
Technical Assistance - The MRrs technical assistance involving the provision of a Claims and Legal
Specialist, was to enable the Ministry to evaluate claims and settle disputes from contractors to whom they
owed arrears. Support to the Accounting and Management Information Unit (AMISU) of the Ministry was
to enable the unit to continue carrying out its functions of proiect coordination and financial management
In addition, it was envisaged that AMISU would carry out baseline and follow-up studies to monitor the
developmental impact of the program. Support was also to be nrovided to the newlv established Road
Fund Secretariat for the first 2 years after which it was to become self-financing. The support to NDPC
was largely aimed at continuing siinnrt nrovided under the previonn TRP-1 nroject and entailed pnviding
further technical assistance, field studies, research, operationial workshops, staff development and training;
and lngistical uinnort reniiired in the nrnce  nfofimnlemnntina mnnitnrin, and evalu ation the firqt five year
development plan with a special focus on the transport sector.
Training - The MRT exceeded their training budget by US$254,000. A total of 125 staff members and
2lA0cont.-nctc-we. n,ea E *-nen. F^,.y four- EAA) c.fl-man.;, of MRT and 306 conf*roEro we
trained at a total cost of US$910,000. The higher figure was due to the extra training needs identified after
*.he IImeLrgL VI MVIP1an atoU UIspo I4.I.iI UIIIV .U I.VI11t. I L ..OIt  and CuommunicattCionUs (MT C).
Logiscal Suppurt - The project provided funds for MRH to procure vuu-c:-s, "' x,-c u'ipme-.t and-
computers to enable the ministry to continue to facilitate its overall coordination and oversight functions,
organize training programs for local contractors, enhance policy formulation and donor coordination and
progress monitoring functions.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal stage the ERRs of typica perioudic mainteriance, rehi biit-t;i al.d [.-o.tbt%Io WO^R were
calculated. For the periodic maintenance works, a sample of six typical sections was analyzed using
HDM-3 to cross cneck analyses carried out for GHA by various consulitants. Thne ERR values ranged froun
23 to 71 percent, giving a weighted value of 40 percent. For the reconstruction works, two major roads
were used as representative samples and an average ERR of 25% was obtained. For tne K-Bs proposea,
the work done by consultants for GHA indicated ERRS ranging from 47 to 100%. An evaluation carried
out at the end of the project on all of the ICBs and a sample of half of the NCB contracts executed indicates
an average weighted ERR for the ICB projects to be 76% and that for the NCBs to be 68%. This exceeds
the expected outcome set out at appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not calculated at appraisal and is not considered relevant.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Road Fund



After its restructuring in 1997, the Ghana Road Fund Board was inaugurated and a small secretariat,
supported by the Credit, was established to manage the Fund according to sound economic principles. The
Board members are made up of representatives of both private and public sectors. Revenues to the Fund
increased steadily and revenues in 2000 were five times higher than 1996 levels. Releases to the Fund were
problematic during the fourth quarter of 1999, but measures were taken and releases are now back on
track. Funds are used mainly for maintenance although some upgrading works were financed by the Fund.
The secretariat, although small is functioning efficiently and have recently employed a junior engineer and
junior accountant to augment the staffing levels. It is estimated that about 50% of the total maintenance
requirements are covered through the Fund, and with consistent, agreed increases in the fuel levy, 100%/o
coverage can be achieved within five years.
Capacity Building
Training programs supported by the Credit for MRH, GHA and the local contractors have all had a
positive impact on the program over the years. The agencies now contract out about 90% of maintenance
works and 100% of development works for private sector participation.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside lne control of government or impiementing agency:
The devaluation of the national currency, the cedi, was a major factor affecting implementation of the
project. Thne inlation that accompanied tnis devaluation led  the increase in the cedi component of all
projects, some by as much as 200%/o. However due to exchange rate gains, most contract sums were not
exceeded in USS terms.
Another factor was the change in govemment following eiections in 2001. The transition was peaceful but
caused a slow down in implementation due to the need for the new govemment to get to grips with running
the country. In particular the new government adopted a policy of reviewing all contracts before agreeing
to go forward; this affected the project by slowing implementation in the project's final year.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A chronic lack of counterpart funding, other than that provided by the Road Fund, was a problem that both
slowed implementation and contributed to the cost of the works, as bids may have been adjusted to account
for the nonpayment of the local share.
In March 1997 the Ministry of Roads and Highways responsible for policy direction and oversight of the
three road agencies GHA, DFR and DUR, was merged, as a single Ministry, with the Transport Unit of the
Ministry of Transport and Communications which was responsible for rail transport services and other
transport modes. The resultant Ministry of Roads and Transport (MRT) is better structured to perforrn its
core task of fornulating and implementing integrated transport policy and planning. This integration has
led to a greater emphasis on transport linkages, with focus on intermodal transport. MRT now deals with
infrastructure, traflic and transportation as well as transport related services; both freight and passenger
transport regional development, economic g-rowth and their relationshiD to transport: and issues of rural
equity and poverty alleviation. Though the Ministry was broken up again on the advent of the new
govemment in January 2000. it was once again merged in the year 2001.
5.3 Factors geenerallv subiect to implementing agency control:
A major issue in the roads sector is the substantial sums that the Govemment owes to contractors for road
works carried out by GHA and MRT in the nast Nearly all of these dehL5 relate to contracts financed
-12 -



entirely by tne Government and often awarded without compeution. Elimination of these debts was
negotiated in 1995 as a prelude to the start of the HSIP, but the agreed schedule was not adhered to and the
debt burden continued to rise. By late 1997, the Government had halted aii directly negotiated contracting,
but on-going contracts combined with interest payments have made the elimination of debt from these
obligations difficult A concerted effort during the last year of the project reduced the size of the debt to
around US$47 million, or about 6 percent of the govemment's total annual revenue.
The adoption of a programmatic approach, and within that, the excellent development partner coordination
that was initiated and sustained under HSIP, has had a significant positive impact in encouraging donor
participation and ensuring that the funding from various sources add up to a coherent whole.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost as stated in the ICR was US$ 111.5 million. Of this the IDA was to finance US$ 100
million, whilst the Government contribution was to be US$1 i.5 million. Actual and appraisal costs are
summarised in Annex 2. Apart from the vehicle and equipment costs which was 25% higher for MRT and
30%, there were no significant differences between appraisal and actual costs. Total Govemment
contribution to the civil works component was about 90% of what was anticipated at appraisal. At its
closing, the project was fully disbursed.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
ProJt sust   -,a:aU-I Is ra'edA Llke:. As I.he p.-o- compr.s i paL. oth Iz*g- 'JSIDPI'JaLunm,
sustainability is assessed in terms of (i) the continuation of the programmatic approach to planning and
,,.ar.agerier.; (ii) .be abillity LU lniniiWil UI phlyslical illfd aUsLUlte rIdUlilitaILtU UIIUCI UIC pj.JIvCU kiii)
political commitment to adequate financing of maintenance needs through the Road Fund; and (iv) a
follow-on project.
Programmatic Approach. Tne adoption of a programmatic approach means that the Government views
the program as a whole, such that implementation of a priority program does not depend on a.particular
funding source. Tne Government's developmcnt of the follow-on RSDP is a good indication that the
approach has become part of the normal way of doing business.
Sustainable Financing for Road Maintenance. Although maintenance funding has slipped in US$ terms,
the existence of a strong Road Fund, which has provided stable funding and disburses in accordance with
agreed principles (maintenance first), provides a good basis for the efficient and effective fmancing of road
maintenance. However, present delays in increasing the fuel levy is of concern.
Political Commitment. Road infrastructure development has been a high priority for Governmnent over the
past decade. The decision to commercialize the sector and strengthen the Road Fund for maintenance
formed the underpinnings of the HSIP project. While political will has been strong over the past decade
and continues to be an important factor, it is more difficult to assess at present.
Follow-on Prolect. The RSDP. which became effective in January 2002, incorporates the lessons learned
under HSIP and seeks to expand coverage to include DUR (formerly supported under the Urban Transport
Prmiect (Cr 3498R-GH)) and nFR (formerly utnnnrted under the National Feeder Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr. 2319-GH)).
Capacity (Public and Private Sector). The capacity of the private sector to implemnent and maintain the
- 13-



existing network is clearly indicated by the fact that 1 00%/o of all maintenance works were implemented and
supervised by local contractors and consultants. Of the 8 ICB contracts, one was implemented by a joint
venture of local contractors and all were supervised by local consultants. The quality of work was on the
whole satisfactory and the number of contracting and consulting firms available locally ensured adequate
competition and no overloading of any particular hrm. The.project was implemented by regular agency
staff, who in turn monitored the local private sector to ensure quality and value for money. Training
programs for the private sector have now been institutionalized and are continuing to improve private
sector performance. Training of professionals in MRT and GHA in project management has created a skill
base available to the sector for implementation of subsequent projects. AU of the implementing agencies
involved in the project have, as a result of training activities and exposure to good practices elsewhere,
become more effective in realizing their institutional goals. One clear example, the introduction of primer
seal in maintenance operations, has transformed surface dressing technology in the GHA.
Economic, Financial and Environmental Viability: All of the road rehabilitation and maintenance
projects executed under the project have high Economic Rates of Retum. Continued intervention on these
roads would also be yiable. On account of the maintenance focus of the program, there are no visible
adverse impacts on the environment. Expansion and mainstreaming of environmental review and
monitoring are being addressed under the follow-on RSDP project.
Soeial Impact and Lnoal Participation: A Study uindertaken to mnonitnr the novertv impact of the nrniect
has established direct correlation between improved road condition and access to higher order social
facilities. Th' s!Iv alse.o found nurm.ernuc nthbr hbnefits ccnning in people liung along the rehabilit.Aed
roads, including: increases in farmn sizes; new access to ready markets and access to new technology; an
increae i indst4al tivities along roads; employm-en c-ration; general im.provere" .n  , in, wrn m.eo'
conditions, particularly reduction in dust pollution leading to low incidence of chest and bronchial related
d.Asases. Th;s has cte%... aod anzawa.eness am..ong km.cal ii.flabitsant  s anaaMmsLders, ld  *to so..-. amount
of ownership. There is also an indication of a willingness to pay an increased fuel levy if improvemnents in
s.n1 -va4 condition ar-e main ained, as evide_.-ce :_. -hod err- roa pu bi U ora held or. uLh Road
Fund. Local participation and stakeholder forums have become institutionalized for rehabilitation,
reconstruction anu development projects, anu communities are weicomc w present tncir conecns at sitc
meetings. Both the GIIA and Road Fund Boards have private sector and road users as part of their
memberships.
6.2 Transition arrangemeni io regutar operations:
The transition to regular operations is expected to be straightforward, as no separate project
implementation unit was established; the project was implemented by regular kHA and MKR staff. I ne
only unit set up specifically for the project was the Accounting and Management Informnation System Unit
(AMiSU). AMiSU has now been phased out, with parallel financial management and accounting capacity
built within the Ministry. The follow-on RSDP project is continuing to support capacity building in
financial management and monitoring the mainstreaming of financial management of the project
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall the Bank's performance at lending is rate satisfactory.
Macroeconomic and CAS concerns. It is worth noting the degree to which macroeconomic
considerations guided project design. The consistency of the proiect with CAS obiectives has been
- i4,-



mentioned earlier. The proiect design also close1v reflected the Govemrnment's pnrinties as set out in their
Road Sector Expenditure Program for 1996-2000. The Bank also helped to underscore the need to halt
negotiated contracts, bringing the rajor cause of the arrer-n nroblem to a cloep.
ImnlemPntatinn PrenarodinsAc The Ranl team  sought st^ min;mi- inhlemenafenn A1aV -nA Pniinsrpd
greater implementation preparedness by advocating for advance preparation of design and tender
documnents fororm-n civi! -rbc anrn,,nf.ntr: Fa- nearlyt .11 of -  ., -by -1 I appr.. Us-aes   and
.....  J . -  .. 0.aa, …-.....a IV *'f  SISt Vi S..., J aypn.R..c.  -ouh  .o5.. a....
pre-qualification of key works resulted in considerable time savings during implementation. There was a
fron:t-!oaing, _t  critical cond...iti   toW e Lue . tha: Vthe Goer...en: add.-s.ajoV pFvicy.Y SSUS ILVL LV
negotiations. A major contributory factor to achieving the objectives was the simplicity and clear focus of
.1,be proet.
T7.2 Sufr.c,t¶n
Decentralization of Implementation and Client Focus. Project supervision occurred at regular intervals
and Was Aone with w i a  tI complei.ent ofi spcialis: -IGeI  -u-Avisio U           A_lta o".er inpu: de  I_ i:
Annex 4). The decentralization of implementation support and task management to the field office in the
idleU VI the1 pJJIe, inc.-eedw;u U'-. tilittaiubZs UI ,-eponseI io tlt; CL:Iict. I I.e prese.-,t; VI ZtIiu ,
procurement and financial management staff in the field office allowed for quicker reviews and hands on
solut-ions to iudenified prob:em0s. T ne 0ofice ,eam srv-ed as a point oi coniat to access knowledge anu
information from the wider Bank. In the 5 and a half years of project implementation, task management
was replaced tnree times. Tne last two repiacemcnts were based in the fieid.
7.3i O-i'Va'lf LJuOLApe~'(r(flUFrLCe
Based on the foregoing, overall Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.:
The Borrower performance at preparation is also rated satisfactory. The Government had a
rn.v.nrhencn secntor s.rtan.,g ar.d a r -U.eit h.bg.M Th- f#hl.ia*0A foe A-.s-laan,n* n c in clarly
defining their contribution to the sector. Preparatory studies were carried out effectively and there was a
cl JVIa.Gove.4..mn W1991,15.CC MP UadUdLre  issues, suCch as the ar,a.r  ar.d cost recver;, critical 'o the
viability and long terns sustainability of the sector.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Govemaiment's perform.ance is rated satisfactor. Negotiate contracts were brought to a clAse adna
claims and legal specialist was hired to advise Government on the implications of the outstanding payments
't. Mbe mtao contwfls. T.-. change in gve.l.et I rUVV Ied  a de-lay i-n thl. award of conVtsO
whilst the new government came to grips with the project.
Counterpart Funding was sometimes a problem, but did not create a serious setback for the
impiementation timetabie as their contribution was 30%o of the iocal costs and the Road Fund provideai hie
counterpart contribution for the maintenance works.
Cost Recovery and the Road Fund. The restructuring of the Road Fund and its creditable performance
during the project implemen(ation period can be regarded as a credit to the Govemment.
7.6 impiementing Agency:
The implementing agencies performed satisfactorily.
- 15-



* .nn*nn"..etnta:.oof Wort Jn . Implement.,non ofC nVa civi ~W.or wem, we nII  AI I A<rn cfnc, ,vere
implemented and supervised by the local industry. The decision to contract out all maintenance works has
led *. theP devlop.. of a f2%lois."Kng loca~Wl con Utracjs u.dustry. lMR a regs'e ofloal contrac'.orsa
stands at over 600 registered road contractors. Although timeliness of completion was sometimes a
pruui.iii, luh UUUI tale levelI of upJrJ ivisi aniu UI, qua'iu.y WoLf W4o wa adUquaw. ITiI 4Vi'. dJvi:i:y VI ui.
Road Fund enabled the agencies to plan and implement satisfactory annual maintenance programs
Development of the local Industry. The training programs organized by MRT and GHA for the local
contracting industry were well prepared and attended. Tne outcome was considered best practice by tne
joint donor evaluation team examining the performnance of the Road Sector in Ghana.
Fiduciary Requirements. Fiduciary requirement were discharged in a regular fashion. Submission of
technical and financial audit reports, as well as quarterly reports from agencies, was timely.
The enforcement of axle load policy was unsatisfactory due to the slow pace of work on the construction
of the weigh stations. The existing stations also do not run a 24 hour checking policy, leaving room for
overweight vehicles to evade checks.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower can be said to have performed satisfactorily.
8. Lessons Learned
The project was well designed and focused. A subset of issues were identified and addressed in depth. In
additinin to tih impo%nrn  of asmnl nrnip,et tdsmi,,A key leesns Inam.wned are as follows:
... ve Social l..a.spact of the P rovision of Transportn Infrastruucture. *t.e A'J .utt.de LW . 'o ...oni'or
the poverty impact of road rehabilitated and maintained under the project established direct correlation
Ue.Ween in^.proved .-od  i.UEiUton anU acces to LU higrIIL orUde scialI acilitieU  ( refer o Se i. 4 .1). Iti.
study also found numerous other benefits accruing to people living along the rehabilitated roads, including:
increases in farm sizes; new access tio ready markets and accss to new technology; an inexcew in industrial
activities along roads; employment creation; general improvement in environmental conditions, particularly
reduction in dust pollution leading to low incidence of chest and bronchial relaied diseases. Capturing of
these obvious benefits from the provision of transport infrastructure needs to be done more systematically.
The Govemment;s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) clearly states that the development and
maintenance of the road network is the key to economic growth. Linkages between the new Road Sector
Development Program and the PRSP must be defined and monitored to enhance the impact of RSDP.
Programmatic Approach. The project attests to the importance of the program concept, which recognizes
that road networks are interdependent, and thus improvements or extensions to the network must be
planned within the context of the whole. Similarly, the adoption of a participatory approach, which
involves all key stakeholders in the sector including users, suppliers and donors, helps to ensure the right
things are done first and will be sustained. The donor coordination and consultation has encouraged donor
cooperation and contributions. The programmatic context makes it easier to detect deficiencies and
problems that need to be addressed for the system to work well. The approach also facilitates the adoption
of standardized implementation procedures, which reduces pressure on Government's limited institutional
resources.
Sectoral Integration. Although the planning and programming was done in a sectoral context, the focus
- 16-



within the project on GHA tended to undercut the prioritization across the entire system. A focus on one
area, i.e., trunk roads, does not allow for efficient use of scarce resources. Roads that did not pass the
economic criteria set may have become more viable if the connecting feeder roads had been considered.
GHA's structure, with an independent Board, also may have contributed to fragmentation among the
agencies responsible for roads. To address this problem, the government may wish consider consolidating
the different agencies and departments under one Roads Authority.
Stable Flnancing for Road Maintenance. The experience with HSIP points out the importance of stable
maintenance funding and better programming. The arrears to contractors in the sector remained a Droblem
throughout the implementation period. It shows clearly the need for comprehensive road sector
management and transparent reporting. Had those elements been in place, the arrears problem could not
have developed. The establishment of the Road Fund has also had a positive institutional development
within the road sector This fiund will continue to provide a sound financial hasis for maintenance and
rehabilitation works. The general acceptance of the fuel levy as a road user fee rather than a tax and the
tranSnprenyv of di^nei^iin on it-. fiinctioning in puhlic fora have hen Pvemnplrv The hbnefits shoulid he
regularly communicated with the public to strengthen support for the fund and the principle of road user
fees. Experience also has shown. the difirculty of achieving the goal of regular rin^re^es in the .fuiel levV
The Govemment may wish to explore options such as more automatic increases, change to a percentage of
the fuel price, Mr a C.J.mitinent to m.aking up tLhe sho-SfllJ from ** h.e. C* onsolidlated Fund. 1lSJ. s shoul
be made to safeguard timely releases.
Procurement Policy. The need for the govemment to institute a procurement policy is paramount. This
wi::  l promote uhe t.lansparenicy in Laic adWU VI Luo . u-oad c; I-V andU ,I'Ip LU c:ear UI.e persi.ent p.IUoUeII.
arrears owed to road contractors. It must be noted however that the competitive tendering as practiced in
allocation of monies from the Road Fund and under HSiP nad a major impact outside the road sector in
influencing the Govemment's decision to prepare a national procurement code. The competitiveness otbids
on contracts funded by HSiP as opposed to the previous practice of negotiated contracts
Development partner coordination. With a multiplicity of development partners working in tne sector,
there were cases of duplication, especially in the provision of technical assistance. Frequent missions all at
different times, puts a strain on the senior staff of implementing agencies as they spend large amounts ot
time attending to each partner in tum. For the most efficient use of already limited resources, coordination
must continue. The possibility of moving to a sector wide (basket funding) approach should be explored
when a satisfactory procurement policy has been established. The annual development partner conference
supported by HSIP became a powerful instrument for stakeholder participation and interaction.
9. Partner Comments
iSn Rnmn..o..rh,nn.plomenatineg^neon'.c
The following is the Borrower's contribution
! .0   P    IRO'ECT OBECT1V ~ES AND COMPOENENTS
1.1    Original Objective
JLI AlU 11r,m1n44, VUJW..  waaU w utLtahl.,6  .UI E PAIMMIR AA AL. AAIIVL1 V AU ta UtAW1J   AU AA  II A A
poverty through increased growth, largely in the agricultural sector. The program was to achieve
UiLN oUjcl.LIvU Vy.
*      reducing vehicle operating costs through maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction of
roads;
*      ensuring the improvements are sustained by developing and implementing cost recovering
policies;
- 17 -



*      building.and utilizing capacity in the public and private sectors;
*      improving financial management and control; and
*      strengthening donor coordination.
1.2    Project Components
The objectives of the project contributed to the achievement of the Highway Sector Investment
Program. The project components were:
1.2.1  Ghana Highway Authority
A. Civil Works
Road Works
*      Rehahilitatinn (SAR Cost: S10 4 miLion) The project waq to rehabilitate about 93 k-m of
trunk roads in the Central and Eastem Regions. The trunk roads showed high economic
rats nf retuim (49%);
*      Reconstruction of bridges (SAR Cost: $5.2 million) The project was to reconstruct
bruge in   hl55flhte% B-n=ha6fv eo.T,.e.. econo...uic .a: ofla~V 1.t:uL at GjJJJ,aaa; WvaS hi.~
(100%).
*      Periodic Maintenance (SAR Cost: $12.3 mrjillion) The project was to reseat
330km of paved roads in Eastern and Volta Regions. Average economic rate of
return (92%). The first seal was carried out under previous World Bank
sponsored project, TRP - 2. Regravelling, resealing, resurfacing and upgrading on
about 772 kms of trunk roads. (SAR Cost $46.2 million). Average
economic rate of return (47%).
*      Improvement of Hazardous Road Sections (SAR Cost $1.0 million) The project was to
supnort GHA's road safety work by concentrating on reducing accidents on hazardous
road sections through minor realignment, provision of warning signs and appropriate road
makinos and spend bhrekerq
*      Building Works
f^E    Tr^;n;na rAnt.r
(b)    Staff Housing Units
(c) Ex:ensionLU '.o-AIEUIA La.or;UdtVLY
B. Desigh andu 3upervislun
Engineering Design and Feasibility Studies
*      Preparation for the ultimate construction of 4 roads 600 km (SAR Cost 2.3 million)
This component was for the feasibility studies and engineering design of 600 km of trunk
roads.
*      For Periodic Maintenance of 2000 km of trunk roads (SAR Cost $1.5 million) This
component was for the feasibility studies and engineering design for Periodic Maintenance
(resealing, regravelling etc.) of 2000 km of trunk roads.
Supervision: Consultancy Services were to be procured for the supervision of civil works
component. (SAR Cost S2.6 million).
C. Logistic Support (SAR Cost $7.5 million)
The project was to provide road maintenance equipment and vehicles, tools and spares, laboratory
equipment. road safety patrol transport and communication, Axle Load control- weighbridges and
drafting and survey supplies.
-18-



D. Institutional Support (SAR Cost $5.1 million)
The project was to improve the capacity and enhance performance of Ghana Highway
Authority in several areas by providing:
*      Technical assistance in the:
(a)    Installation of MIS and trainincg;
(b)    Toll Road Feasibility Study;
(c)I   Arrmintina anti Auditi; S'Zff;
(d)    Bridge condition survey and Maintenance Specialist;
(pI     F4rornmPnr'!a Qn,rialict;
(f)    Road Safety Expert;
*      Training of Ghana Highway Authority staff both in-country and abroad.
Local TIranspon Studies and shorn ierm technicai assistance.
.2.2  Ministry of Roads and Transport-National Development Planning Commission
A. Institutional Support To MRT (SAR Cost $4.2 million)
TXne project was to provide technical assistance and human resource development to MR-T as
follows:
*      Technical Assistance - Accounting Management Information Systems Unit (AMISU);
*      Training of MRT staff and local contractors;
*      Studies;
*      Socio-economic studies on impact of roads on poverty reduction:
(a)    Monitoring and Evaluation Studies;
(b)    Logistics.
B. Institutional Sunnort To NDPC (SAR Cost S1 9 millinn)
The project was to support the management of NDPC with the following under this component:
*       ~Development Snecialist;
*      Field Studies and Research;
*           fionall %I,/ o-kshops;
WPMLL5JI(UVT &mollBU3
*      Staff Development, Training and Logistics
2.0    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
Objective *: Reducing Vehicle Operaring Cost through Maintenance, Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction of Roads
T ne HSiP has contributed in improving the national road condition from i997 levels of 20% good,
19% fair and 61% poor to 30% good, 27% fair and 43% poor in 2000. This represents an
improvement of the maintainable segment of the national roads network from 39°/O in 1997 to 57%
in 2002. However, in 2001 road in good condition decreased to 27.3% while those in poor
condition increased to 55.8%. The main reason for the distortion is the change in focus of not
carrying out required regravelling on unpaved roads. This was as a result of inadequate
maintenance between 2000 and 2001 due to disruption of releases from the Road Fund. The
extension .of the credit lapse date from December 2000 to December 2001 will reverse this trend
when 2002 road condition data is gathered.
Socio-economic studies undertaken during the project implementation period to assess the impact
of the project have revealed a considerable impact of road rehabilitation, reconstruction or
maintenance on living conditions and, consequently poverty reduction.
-19-



The study established an increase in average daily traffic of 9% with corresponding reduction in
travel and waiting times as 22% and 300/O respectively. Passenger fares and freight charges have
reduced in relative terms by 5%. Overall transport expenditures on the rehabilitated routes have
decreased by about 1 0°/e. Savings in fuel consumption were in the region of 70 Cedis per kilometer
for petrol and 44 Cedis per kilometer for diesel. Other benefits include physical access to health,
education and other social services.
vOjecnve 2; Ensuring tna improvemenrs are sustaunea vy uevewuping ana impiemenuing Cum
recovery policies, building and utilizing indigenous capacity in the public and private sedors,
and improvingfinancial management and controL
Sustainable Cost Recovery Policies
The project has laid a strong foundation for charging road users directly by putting roads on a fee
for service basis. Trne project established modaiities for the enactment of the Road rund Act (Act
536, of August 1997), which defined in clear terms; (i) the establishment of the Road Fund
outlining the objectives; (ii) the management of the Fund, responsibilities of the board, annual
expenditure program and the disbursement and withdrawal procedures; and (iii) associated
financial provisions and administration including accounting and auditing.
The project provided support to hire personnel of adequate qualification and experience to
constitute the fund secretariat, and this largely accounts for the tremendous success regarding the
management of the fund. Under the new act, measures were put in place to commit the proceeds to
the intended purpose and to protect it from leakage.
Although a commitment was made to mobilize funds for the 1996-2000 road maintenance program
and achieve 83% of the funding required for maintenance by 2000, only about 50%/o was achieved.
Maintenance investment cost recovery through the Road Fund and the performance of the Fund up
to 1998 was satisfactory in line with the objective of total maintenance investment cost recovery by
2005. But stagnation and depreciation of the cedi overtook this. The fuel levy was increased from
0150 per litre in 1998 to $230 per litre in March 2001 equivalent to about 3.3 US cents as against
9.5 US cents projected under the HSIP.
Financial Manaw0ement and Control
The arrears payment to road contractors persisted during the project period. The project objective
was to completely eliminate arrears by the end of the HSIP. Accordingly agreement was reached
with Govemment to initiate steps to halt further increases and to commence payment to affected
suppliers and contractors to reduce the backlog from US$75 million in 1996 to zero bv the vear
2001. Actual performance was not satisfactory. The figure increased to US$114 million by
December 1999 However a substantial nart of it was cleared in the ensuing vear and as at
December 2000 had gone down to US$33 Million. As at 2001 the arrears stood at US$66 million.
inadeuatee nr.nvcinn o nfiu."nA to conmnpel on-going commitm.e.". anti lack o%f cinouoawrt frdn tineri
support development projects, issuing of variation orders and time overruns were some of the
reasons leading further escalation nf t6he arrears.



Buildine and Utilizing Indieenous CaDacitV in the Public and Private Sectors
Public Sector Training: Under the project recipient agencies carried out training to upgrade and
substantially enrich its manpower resources. GHA trained 951 of its staff, 878 of the trainees
undertook local short courses. 78.2% of the budget was utilized. MRT training also focused on
senior and middle level management a total of 44 persons were trained. MRT exceeded its training
budget because of the merger of the Ministry of Roads and Highways and the Transport section of
then Ministry of Transport and Communication.
Private Sector Training: MRT also identified the need to train practitioners in the road
construction industry to enable them play their assigned role in the development of a reliable and
efficient road infrastructure to support our developmental endeavors. As a major part of the
training program, MRT prepared a purpose-built training package for local road contractors and to
be sustained after the project by the road contractors' association. The contractor training started
under TRP-2 and continued under the project. The number of contracting firrns trained in the
Management course total 163 with 188 participants. For the professional and technical course 217
firms registered 249 participants for the training. Local contractors were also trained in a more
effective means of surface dressine using techniques perfected in Australia which has a verv long
experience with such methods.
Institutional and Technical Assistance: Institutional support and technical assistance required
under nroject were mainly carried out by indigenons expert- in the aresc of road engoineeDri
studies, development, maintenance management systems, financial management and environmental
imnar't ncEC-Qcm.nt nfVrnoai wnrlc. With rpeare4 to pn,Ar^nmpnh,l rncscp.mnt tl,p fo!o-ig hba.
been achieved:
*-A       Evrnmen"!a, a ........ i:g4inmasres bvncluedin    all. road dvlp.n
Projects;
*      Guidelines nave been provided for inclusion of environmentl consideration in unc uesign
and implementation of road projects; and
*      Establishment of environmental impact assessment unit and training of staff,
Private Sector Contracting: -here has been a positive move from force account to private
contracting and at the end of 2000 private sector contractors undertook over 95% of the
maintenance works. All development projects are executed by the private sector. All the NCB
contracts under the project were designed, supervised and built by Local Consultants and
Contractors. All the ICB projects were designed and supervised by local firms and 6% of them,
were built by local Contractors.
However, the technical assistance to be provided by a Road Safety Expert and the Feasibility
studies for tolling of road in Ghana could not materialize. It is expected these will be re-packaged
under the RSDP.
OUTPUTS BY COMPONENT
1.     CIVIL WORKS
(a)    International Conmpetitive Bidding
Rehabilitatinn of Roads fIrR Lats 1 I  2) It was rnommmed that 93 lm nf rnadi wil he
resurfaced/resealed in CentralUEastern Regions under ICB Lot I & 2 Winneba - Swedru -Akim
Oda 2t a cO! nfl RIS 101 millinn a!t I USSI 0001/Ijm Aj.tutat .woirl' acnnmnlich¶i- was fhe
- 21 -



rehabilitation of 82.9 km of the same road at URJ  I I.51 million i.e. US$163 jO  per km= The
increase in cost was due to the change in the scope of works from resurfacing/resealing to complete
,rph2hilit2f ion.
Pe.rA:.Ad  Maintenance Works (I- R IC  - o   J, 4 a 5  It w.,c A--nme that 330 k.A o, nf npaA
.-.-..-- '.'*           C-1 _- -".-, - -_*~  * .. -            -_ - 'b".e
roads in the Eastern/Volta Regions would be resealed under ICB lots 3, 4, and 5 at a total cost of
IS 12.3 r.^,i!ion US$3,000 perkm. ACt.!Imlm..ioyedd175krofe                nu^d.
0.0 a &.Jy.a.. W..ftflt Li ~.P~ 0VJ' r1 -  J ~   Cua.EILS%S11 jP4%&ZA  A I A .S "Al VA LLO.U15UhU
Lot 3 at a cost of US$5.58 million as against US$6.40 million program, i.e. US$33,000 per km.
:_: C_ _ I _. A 071 1__ ... _1_ - AZ ICI-C1 O1 A_:11:_ ._:_  10.^% I1_ neA__:__
OIMIi4lly 1U LA)' 4, 0o1 IL II Wan LauIU aL voa X .ov IIlIIIIUII WHILl Wd Va.PZ. I,IJUIIII b a4gainst
programmed US$37,000/km. Lot 5 yielded 62.7 km against programmed 71.5 km at US$2.24
± - IIC-Iif fhIf%lA.._
rnml:ion i. Le.v 6,IJ0 UUILIII.
in all 32;.2 kim of rwads were resealeo at US$9.68 miilion. Savings made in cost were due mainly
to the competitiveness of the bidding.
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Bridges (ICB Lots 6 and 7) Three bridges were
rehabilitated under Lot 6 in the Brong-Ahafo region on the Tepa junction - Goaso road. However
7 bridges scheduled for reconstruction under Lot 7 has not materialize due delay in procuring
services of the consultant for the feasibility and detailed engineering studies.
Rehabilitation of Koforidua-Suhum road (ICB Lot 8) Under 1CB Lot 8 which was originally
programmed for resealing of 25 km Koforidua - Suhum road at US$36,000/km it was determined
at the implementation that the road had deteriorated beyond resealing and therefore had to be
entirely rehabilitated at total cost of US$2.91 million i.e. US$ 118,000 per km.
All the projects were executed within original or revised contract periods.
(b)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
It was programmed to do various periodic maintenance activities under NCB packaged lots for
772km of roads at a total cost of US$46.2 million (SAR). A total of 1136.3km of various periodic
maintenance activities involving regravelling, resealing, resurfacing and upgrading were achieved
at a total cost of US$40.79 million. The high achievement was parly due to the competitiveness of
the tenders for the NCBs and the depreciation of the cedi against the dollar.
Most of the activities proposed for the NCB works were revised upwards due to the deterioration
of the madr hetween the time of deeion and imnlementmtinn Resealing work were resuirfiterP .r
rehabilitated etc.
(c)    Improvement of Hazardous Road Sections (NCB)
l>1,, Buldn ... IAad -A esearc- h !ns i.u e f --,-;e  u  n xev study -  :A-r. i a. du
I EL  UtSS16 ..*.%*SAS lfl4  IUJtSnL*'.    lt A015MU  AS..IIIV  LU j L *U~ULIUZ  HaILOLtU0
sections on the trunk road network. 100 hazardous sections were prioritized for immediate
imIIp.-ovemen:II. Due' USISI Lothe ILI I.aJtI.al iliU Ut VIo Uof ^ I. IU WpaIvLD could not .askleoff.
(; iJUer LEV1S: WUorks
Twenty-five (25 No.) 2-3 Bedrooms housing units were programmed under the HSIP for
consWuction. Amount allocaedu for the prograim was US$ I.7 million. Twenty (20 No.) nousing
units were constructed at a total cost of 02804.5 million. ( See details in Table 1). More semi
detached units were constructed to serve the junior and semi-senior stafl
- 22 -



Also constructed under the HSIP were the following:
*      I No. 3 storey building flats for Senior Staff in Accra with a Senior Staff Guest House at a
cost of t3.578 million:
*      Fence wall to GHA land at East Legon;
*      ? nrwR.ovation tf.o Hea ofrce Ar hivpes;
*      Extension to Central Laboratory at a cost of  1,468 million;
2.     DESIGN AND SUPERVISION
Engineerinag ant FanUibf:JUty .)1"uUUs
The original project was to carry out engineering design and feasibility studies for:
*     Construction of 4 roads - 600km
*     Period Maintenance - 2000km
However due to delays in carrying out the studies and considering the neamess of the start of the
RSDP. The scope of the studies was changed to Pre-fieasibility studies to prioritise roads in Zone
2,3 and 4 to complement previous studies carried out by the European Union in the south-west
region (Zone 1). Two local consultants undertook the design and supervision for ICB component of
the civil works.
3.     EQUIPMENT, SPARE PARTS, VEHICLES AND MATERIALS
MRT, GHA and NDPC procured most of their equipment, spare parts and vehicles using
competitive bidding. Equipment for the Road Safety Patrol unit and other communication gadgets
were not procured since the GHA did not have the jurisdiction to establish it.
Procurement and installation of weighbridges to control axle loads on the trunk roads were not
fully completed during the project period. Six permanent weighbridges procured will be installed
using Ghana govemment funding. 10 mobile weighbridgcs have been procured to enable the newly
created Road Safety and Environment Unit of GHA to carry out on-the-spot checks of axle
loading.
4.     INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
The fnlnurinn instihhtinnI spnnnort in the fnfn nf varinis technical assistance were achieved:
*      Environmental Specialist: The service of an Environmental Consultant was employed.
*.e Whievem_.C.tw ir!ude sellgtt   up of
an Environmental Unit and training of at least one GHA senior officer who at present, is
aU  LU t U conuL Envatinmen Impact A    . ...en :  (EIAtudi and  Omfltor Ufl
implementation and effectiveness of mitigation measures. However, some areas under the
scope of service ofVI UeI TJO WelK- r.ot coVVeI,e Uy UIC MAtLV iLW VI Uif econsUI:'IL Lr
*      Bridge Design Specialist: T ne Bsrage Condition ana Maintenance Specialists were
employed to Review the Bridge Inventory,
Development of BMMS Software and Preparation ot Document and manuals which will
establish an Assessment Procedure for Bridges, Guidelines for bridge Inspection and
Maintenance Needs and Guidelines for Safe remaining life.
*      Institutional Supportfor Road Maintenance: Institutional support for Road
Maintenance was obtained for the following activities:
Bituminous Surface Dressing Specialist: The objective of engaging the services of
-23-



Experts, in the design and construction of bituminous surface treatments was largely
achieved but not without two extensions to the original contract which started in May i997
and finally ended in August 2001.
The key achievements made under the program are:
*      GHA's specifications for aggregate were changed from the larger 20mm, and
10mm to 4mm, 10mm and 7mm sizes, resulting in a well textured mat;
*      Pre-coating of aggregates to ensure proper bonding of aggregates to bitumen;
*      The Factors influencing the design of bituminous surface treatments such as
Average Least Dimension (ALD), shape of aggregate etc. have been well spelt out;
*      A large number of engineers in the Ministry of Roads and Transport. DFR. DUR,
GHA and from Contractors and Consultants have been trained in the design and
aDDlication of the techniaue:
*      Operators of Contractors' bitumen distributors and a crop of GHA Mechanical
Fngineers     have been traind tn calihrate and maintain hituimen di-driht:tnrA.
Paveme.nt Maintenance ManagementSyseiom (PA4M.) The Pavement Maintenan- e
Management System (PMMS) was developed in 1995 at the Material Division of GHA.
In 996 tLhe software ca!!ed Pavement Man_snnro  n Prnanm. was mn&.ir ,4 n *he R^dA
Maintenance Division. Road condition survey was given to staff of the road Maintenance
Diiinand th.eGe^.T^hi
Assistance Team (GTZ). However, the software was written in DOS, which made
proesing of i-1Onfor..^.z:io -e. Vuboe   uue..- ^.__ on gr<.ve    --oaoly,-ogh.
IJi~~~uI  US  IIIUIIIG UIIV%,RJ  ..ULItI1V UEI0tI .  A UIUIV,9IIIVII~ VJBIPU~IA r9V,  v u   ily £OUUriUIC-
was used to categorise roads into good, fair and poor.
The shortcoming of the original PMMS has since been resolved by developing a new
Windows-based software called PMMP 2w0. T ne programme has assisted in generatig
reports that impact on decisions regarding maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction
budgeting for constrained and unconstrainea programmes. ne oeveiopment or tne rMMr
is still on-going to establish an interface with the Highway Development and Management
Model 4 to aid project level appraisal of roads.
Accounting and Auditing: Under the Technical Assistance Budget of the HSIP, two
Chartered Accountants were engaged to
assist GHA run its finances efficiently. MRT also employed the services of accountants
under
AMISU component to handle the financial and disbursement aspect of the projecL
The tasks of the accountants include:
*      Prepare Progress Reports on projects;
*      Record and maintain account records in respect of all disbursements made by IDA
and niher Donnnrq
*      Keep records on examinations by Donors and Auditors;
-      S  %JrrlI    5.55   Fli.   -A 55 A..   -I*i
*      Preparation of Finance and Accounts Manuals.
Tne services rendered by the Consultants have ennancud the performance of the Finance
Division of the Authority and the MRT financial reporting for the project. Financial and
Technical auditing was instituted by MRT under the project which links disbursed funds to
- 24 -



physical performance. Experience from the HSIP will be used in the RSDP.
Claims and Legal Expert: MRT procured the services of short-termn claims and legal
expert to assess the legal dimension of the arrears and contractual implications of
terminating these projects. Most of the recommendation is yet to be implemented. Services
of another Claims and Legal expert to review contracting processes to achieve value for
money. The report from the second expert advised against negotiated contracting and
inadequate preparation of contracts were the main causes of the arrears.
Installation ofMIS:Under the Proiect Institutional Sunnort component, an Information
Technology Specialist - to undertake a System Study of GHA's Business processes. It
was exnected amonu other things that the studv will ilimatelv lead to the design and
implementation of the following;
*      Local Area network (LAN);
*      Hardware (servers, workstations, printers, scanner, laptops and UPS);
*      A-ptdplicto SoILware;
*      Intemet Services;
TXne Consultants only managed to complete the design. However the remaining components
namely; testing, implementation and training of GHA counterpart staff to manage and
maintain the system are outstanding.
Contract Management System, Software was developed to assist in the computerization
of the contract data Management. Even
though the system is working it needs some modifications to be really effective.
* Monitoring and Evaluation Systems: NDPC employed the services of a consultant to
develop a monitoring and evaluation system to
enhance the supervision of the development plans at the district levels. A pilot project was
embarked upon. The outcome and experiences will be used to enhance the systems for use
by all the district assemblies. MRT undertook a study to assess the impact of roads on
poverty reduction. The poverty reduction indicators were monitored throughout the
projects period.
Training Programs: Various training activities were packaged to improve local capacity
through upgrading of skill levek and conmnetsen.ce nf staffof MRT GHA anid NDPC
Training activities undertaken included:
: Inicav-tCn           emIces ationata seminar f ro-r senior mer.bers of OtCff,
*      Short courses in Contract Management and Administration, Finance, Performance
Auditing and Human Resource Development and Management;
*    64. Std  ors. .an A.ac n io Road Acons- uc:ion td s4.risfo Cont rc+.
-        iy uuti3a dIU  itm,.ia III Z1U4  u i0UW-1.IIU   IIl%IUa%I&It.  AWL tAJIuO.
Maintenance, Road Asset Management and Bituminous Surface Dressing skills;
*      M.Sc. Prougiammes;
*      Local Courses,
A number of the overseas courses were not implemented for the following reasons:
*      Most of the courses targeted were not announced;
*      Some of the courses were postponed;
*      Govemment directives in year 2001 to minimise overseas travels in all MDA's.
-25 -



3.0    MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT
Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency
*      Poor planning and performance on the part of contractors culminated in both time and cost
*      The fall in the cocoa price on intemational market and the increase in the price of crude oil
leuJ to  buger sb,o,^.flls ir, :999 a,^J 2000;
ICU U  ulusuw~ay blIIUL1diI inI IYY alIu zuIJu,
*      The fall in the water level in the Volta Lake resulted in power shortages. This adversely
afrfected the production and availability of cement in i 998.
Factors Subject To Government Control
*      Failure to make timely release of counterpart funds for projects contributed to:
(a)    The large build-up of arrears
(b)    Time overruns of projects
(c)    Extension of the credit's closing date by 12 months.
*      Proposed level of fuel tax were not achieved and this resulted in lower levels of road
maintenance being carried out;
*      Delay in issue of Treasury Credit Notes (TCN) for clearing goods from the harbour;
*      Clear decision on duty exemption for works and goods imported
Factor Subject To Implementing Agency Control
*      Systems and Drocedures recuired for effective mana8ement of the nroiect were not fully
utilised, especially the Bank's procurement guidelines;
*       7Changes in the planned activities on some nrAir'IQ as iniicated in the S.AR Ied tdieIv in
the commencement and therefore the completion dates;
:  Non=adheren '- the -b --- A implerr.cn-a:ion sch-A . 1- in- CA.,Dx -cau delays in
completion of projects.
4.0    SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainable Road Fu-d Financing
The Road Fund, as designed, is likely to meet the long-term funding needs for routine and periodic
maintenance of the roads re'nabilitated under the project. T ne rund is currently supporting about
50 - 55% of the annual maintenance programme. However, if the GOG increases the fuel levy to
ultimate level of the equivalent of 9.5 US cents per litre, tnere will be adequate tunds for the
routine and periodic maintenance programme by 2005. Roads rehabilitated under the project will
only need routine maintenance after 2005.
Political Commitment
Govemment has given road infrastructure maintenance and development very high priority on its
Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy. The political value attributed to a good road network is very
high. The Govemment has set a target to stabilise the road condition mix at 70%/o good, 20%/ fair
and I0'/o poor by the year 2005. This target is backed by a five year rolling strategic plan.
Follow up Projects
Extensive donor support has been secured by GOG for the three-year slice of the Sector's Strategic
Plan under the RSDP. The preparation of the RSDP considered lessons learned from the HSIP and
will seek to pursue and expand most activities. The Ministry also issued a Policy letter in May
2001, which outlined the policy framework and institutional arrangements for the implementation
of RSDP.
5.0    BANK PERFORMANCE
The Bank's performance on the project was satisfactory. Through its supervision missions and the
- 26 -



sup,r.f-om C_ e Gban or.-_r.cC a Ilo: of dicusin we-   l  hihld.  hes:satr
I4JSJIMMI~t UI*, SJIIQlJa Vill~ G 5.1 USAla.~Ua0IUE  W%;II 1EiZIU WISILEE1 IIUU LU UI%; aaM1_4.LUIY
implementation of the project. Their intervention at governmental levels avoided some perceived
delays. a Ti..e apaubilLy dIU ptsVl%;saional apprUachl were satisflactory.
6.0    LESSOIN3 L~EAJ RNED
*      Regular training of contractors and consultants should be sustained to improve planning,
execution and supervision to achieve high quality of work;
*      Non-Adherence to procurement and implementation schedules should be avoided to
forestall large amount of undisbursed funds, which are applied to unprogrammed activities
at tail end of projects in order to avoid a situation-where the funds go back to chest;
*      Regular co-ordination and discussion with the banks local staff should be sustained to
avoid delays in future projects;
*      The allocation of funds to adequately designed projects to be implemented in preceding
programmes is commendable and has to be extended to maintenance projects to avoid
changes in planned activities as project progresses.
(c) Other partners (NGOsiprivate sector):
10. Additional Information
- 27 -



A nnex1. 1    ey Per1-ra         e Indican.chrfft w       raome Msatrix
f'lhBII5VJ AL. At~j A  a". .Vf *5sf- ...t....a.    . 0,-
Outco,me I Imnpac Indicatorn_
,   1ndcat~,4Mafd~                       Ptojected ,n last n SR  ...ualLateats tE                matet
1. stear oaauog oT mwainenace.
GHA
1.1 Percentage of trunk roads in good   52%                                     L3
condition:
(the mnethod used to obtain 18% for
199t7 & 19% fn IQ99R um.> mnit,ifiart
GHA
1.2 Percentage of trunk roads in fair  124%                                     126
condition:
O. Pr       -1-eh v_ ts in rtsd
GHA
2.1 Level of allocation of funds for routine
rmaintenartce:                          (a) 14.5
(a) USS nillion                     (b) 11,600                              (b)5,529
(b) kmIII
IGHAII
2.2 Level of allocation of funds for periodic
maintenance:
Ir intnaoe                          i(a) 70.8                               (a)15.79
(b) km                             (ab) 1,629                               (b)596.2
GHA (;,k 
2.3 Level of alocation of rehabditation:
(a) USS  i                          (a) 7.4                                 (a)4.9
(b) I                               (b) 56                                  (b)81.64
DFR                                     6.9                                      4.87
2.4 Level of alocaion of funds for roubne
maintenance:
I MC -.fi
IDFR                                    l(a) 20.0                               (a) 723
12.5 Level of allocation of funds for periodic  |(b) 1906                        |(b) 1,051
nImaint-snanoe:                                                                 I          
(a) USS mir|ion
(b) km
DER
Z.5 Level ot allocaion of Tunos Tor
rehabgitation:                          (a) 11.6                                (a) 5.68
(a) USS mfilion                     e1 On                                   Ilk% 374
(b) km                               '"
DUR
ZJ Levei of aication or Tunris Tor roubne
fmaintenance:                            (a) 2.7                                 (a) 3.1
I US$ million                         ,.-k - 
IQuU                                   III
2.8 Level of allocation of funds for periocic
|maintenanott:                         111.6                                     9.11
US; iton
13. imDrove finandal management:        15                                       66.6
Outstanding arrears to contractors and
|reditrs           
4. Reduce damage from overloaded vehiles 10%                                    INA
-2o -



|by enforcing ale load control.
monitorng of rmajor transport routes.
5. Develop and implement cost
reouvegy-user chargers:
(a) Fuel Lew in US cents eauivabnt  (a) 8
(b) Road Fund in USS milion      (b) 36.5                             (b) 54
a. irainwinganciianpDweru3evetopmneniTor
|Local Trahing (LT)                 LT 197 sw                            878 staff trained locally
|Overseas Training (OT)             IOT  27 SW                            3 staffmeibers trained overseas
17. Tminngand manpower development for
I  Staff Trained (ST)                # ST 375 (bnc dung contractor traminig)  I MRT staff trained
Local Training (LT)              LT 42.2 ow                          J306 Contractors trained
|  Overseas Training (OT)           iOT1i 6sw
NA= Not available
It should be noted that at appraisal I US$ was equivalent to GHC 1550 and it was on this basis that
projections were made and fixed in US dollars at the time. Howevcr, at close of project I US$ was
eniiivalent to GHC7lR60, a rfih of the value at annraisal The figires shown for the allocation of fiinds are
based on the current US$ equivalent to the cedi, which is not a true reflection of attainment of targets.
Although lhere wasa shonrfa!l in tnroptq due to the delva in the inc.rescp of the fuel levy in 2000 and 200!,
cedi targets up to 1999 were met and slightly exceeded. The import cost of maintenance construction also
does not reflect com-letel- Lhe dcva!uat.ion hfheu.ec,snu!6tton '7(0/. ^F'.hicos'sate on.
Hence the ability to cover a greater number of kilometers of maintenance with less US dollars.
Output Indicators:
17   7     .                    -  .1 - ..   ;  I  :s'I-  .             I.-:. I.
Clearing backlog of maintenance.                                         1136 km of maintenanoe work axnb   1
lntfn.ftinn *^: 73'7km nf ma,.
Promting private sector pailidpation                                     100% of NCBs and 1 of 8 ICBs Implmented
jby loal contactors. 100% superAsory jobs
lhaedd by local consulting finns. 70% of
feasibity and design studies don by local
1cnsultants. 30% associations bbertwe bDcal
and foreign consulting firns.
End of project



PkAAoe A2. Ka oject Cos'st aga d Financlingr
D_: I-_I t.  K I UJ.L  f_ IIce EEIAII
-.. Appraisal     ,      |ActuaUi,test  Prcentage,o
1 . :.                        . ..  .   .    1   : Estrfimat-e1  Estfimt    I   1 ..............^
.. ..  ,:- :, Project Cost By Component.         US$Vmillion .  US$ million bh _'',:__,'-
A. Civl Wors, G-A I                                  73.10 I        7398 
B. Design and Supervision, GHA                        5.90           5.91            100
C. Equipment, Spare parts, Vehicles & Matenals, GHA   7.30           5.07             69
D. Institutional Support, GHA                         4.80           4.19             87
E. Incremental Operating Cost, GHA                    1.10           0.86             78
F. Institutional Support, MRH!NDPC              |    5.80    I       5.36   |         92
G. Vehicles & Office Equipment, MRIH/NDPC            2.00            2.50            125
IH. Incremental Operating Cost MRIA/NDPC              0.90           0.70             77
ITotal Baseiine Cost                               100.90           98.57
Physical Contingencies                              4.50
Price Contingencies                            |     6.10
Total Project Costs        1   111.50          98.57   I
Total Financing Required         |   111.50          98.57   |
Note: GHA Institutional Support costs include the i-e of refinancingPPFs;
Discrepancies may occur due to rounding
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
:I -: -.: .  -  - .  . :  , .,. I' ''  .   -  - .   Procuremenntt Md ethod
-Eipenditure Catego  Y  ;    1    .................... ICiNBry          : r-  Total Cost
lC,   ,,,,,,,,,,,                      .i...       ,      st -  ... .. ..
1f. Works                     32.60        49.50    r    0.00     I    0.00    f   82.10
1                        1   (29.20)   1   (42.70)  1    (0.00)   I   (0.00)   I  (71.90)
12. Goods                |    6.90     1    1.60    |    1.20     1    0.00    1    9.70
1                        I   (6.15)        (1.35)        (I.10)      (0.00)   1   (8.60)
13=- Servire                  n nn0    1       0.0     1    !  ?.5  1    M.0     1 !7.5
_________________________    (0.00)    J   (0.00)       (17.50)  J    (0.00)   J  (17.50)
15. %OpUFsd&tin %Cost,G. %311  0.0AW0w                   i.20 LL      U.00       1i.20
I   I    (0.00)        (0.00)       0.10)         (0.00)       (1.10)
5. Operating Cost, MRH        0.00         0.00          1.00         0.00         1.00
(0.00)   [    (0.00)       (0.90)        (0.00)   1   (0.90)
Total                      39.50        51.10         20.90         0.00        111.50
!________________!_______    (35.35)      (44.05)   1   (20.60)      (0.00)    ! (100.00)
Note: Discrepancies occur due to rounding
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
'Ex n ;       .  ; ;.- ;                   .;.        ..       ,.   .       .-
Eenditure Catego -yo i                              ICB.:.                  tat Codstii
1. Works                      0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
- 30 -



I_______________________ _ I   (20.60)        (53.38)       (0.00)         (0.00)   I   (73.98)
I2. Goods                       0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
________________________    ____________(6.67)   (0.80)     (0. I0)        (0.00)       (7.57)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(000)          (0.001       (15.46)        (0.00)       (15.46)
5. Operating Cost, GHA          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
in ml (0.00)  1 (0.00)  1    (.            (0.0)     1   ([A  R
6. Operating Cost, MRH          0.00            .00          0.00          0.00          0.00
I ________________________ |   (0.00)    [      I (V. IV(       )    I    (°  °°)       IV   I 70
Total                  |     0.00      [    0.00          0.00     J    0.00     J    0.00    l
(27.27)        (54.18)   j   (17.12)   1    (0.00)   1   (98.57)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
v Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
- :-                                            -: : . - -                               :: . . .: : .  :  :  .  - Percentage of Appraisal
Cotmponent'            Appraisal Estimate  .       Actual/Latest Esti   mat e   -:
_____________ _  IDA  -j|- GoVL |  CoF.  f  IDA  | -ovt.  | CoF.  IDA  |Govt[COF.
[A. Civil Works,GiHA  | 71.90     N10.20  |            64.92  |   9.04              90.3   88.6
|B. Design and Supervision,  6.40 I   0.00  1          5.91                         92.3   0.0
CHA                   I                   I
C. Equipment, Spare      6.80      0.80                5.04      0.03              74.1    3.8
parts, Vehicles &
Materias GHA
1-   .  .- . .-  -  I-   ,  _n          
D. instituuionai aupport, 1   5.VV
GHA                  .1                                                            7      60.0
IV !                  I   !0          0. 0-                   1   0.06              7 2.7  6'0-0
{Cost, GHA            I                                                           I
IF. Institutlnnal Support  I  6.10  1  0.00 1          5.36   1                    87.9    0.0
|MRH/NDPC
|G. Vebicles &ore     |  1.80      0.30                2.43      0.07            I 135.0  23.3
Equipment, MRH/NDPC   |
H. Incremental Operating  0.90     0.10                0.64      0.06              71.1   60.0
Cost, MRHINDPC        I _        I _       I _       I _       I _
Note: Discrenancies may occur due to rounding
-31 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The main economic benefits of the investments were derived from savings in vehicle operating costs
through reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and bridges. These in turn were expected
to promote increased agricultural production, stimulate exports and increase the mobility of people,
particularly in rral areas. The tangible benefits from road investments (representing about 68% of the
project) were quantified using cost benefit analysis. The benefits arising from institutional strengthening
and policy reform were not measured in monetary terms, but considered critical to the long tern
sustainability of the physical investments.
To update the analysis, the NPVs and ERRs were re-calculated (using HDM-4) using the same
assumptions of a discount rate of 15%, 20 year analysis period, and salvage value of 15%, but actual
contract values and updated traffic data. Economic costs were mainly the discounted capital cost of the
intervention, excluding taxes, duties and contingencies. Quantified economic benefits were expressed in
terms of the monetary value of annual road user cost savings from improved infrastructure and traffic flow.
The cost savings were derived primarily from reductions in vehicle operating costs. Benefits accruing from
savings in peak traffic waiting times were included in the analysis using the VOC sub-model of HDM-4.
The updated analysis was done for all ICBs and about half of the NCBs. The ERR (cost-weighted) for the
IDA-financed part of the HSIP program presented in the SAR was 58%. The post-project economic
analysis yielded a higher weighted ERR of 70%. cnnfirminp the eeonnmic rnhustness nf the nrniect.
The tahles on the following na8e nresent the SAR and nost-nrieet estimates for the selected road
Refer to nape S (Sectinn 41 for the qocin-economir henMbs identified frnm the imnroverl rnaid nondifiinn of
the networks support by the project funds. These include the lowering of transportation costs, increase in
farm inonmPe increacs in a  -cc to cial csrvices neneration of employment and thP hringinn about of
social equity and political unity.
Unit costs of the roads constructed compared favorably and were on the average lower than appraisal costs.
ThLis was clearly tule .-esulit of comp--:I It on b,ouh:abu:b L... oper e.-,e p.-ocess -o - -pe.--- --- -. of -1-_1.e
a ii~ a~ I~4IyUI~L~UL U .JIEjA~ItIEiULU1EL aGUUI LOY tIIIF Oj1%EL WtIiUVtjLI.~ 'LUVI. PJ fUll VI UIU
various periodic maintenance activities were as follows:
Appraisal           Actual (Average)
resealing            US   i37,000        USS i 7,200
regravelling         US$33,000           USS 16,000
rehabilitation       US$165,000          US$ 148,300
resurfacing          US$110,000          US$40,000



Economic Analysis of HSIP Projects
ICB Components
Description of    Lenzth      Cost       NPV             EIRR           AADT'94    AADT'01     Cost/km
I     Project     I   KM     I USSM     I  a,) S5%  I Before  i   After    Veh/day     Veh/day     000's
1Wlnneba-Oda      |      82.91     13.511      16.93        491        531      24501      41261        163
Mamte-Kdua                30u                  i.071        561       2361       752       31141        21
Kdu-Asesewa .461                    1.8q       5.761        281        l7        3781      13621 
mIVamle-AOuKrom j            II         I     lU.OL                             IOJ                     21
K'dua-Suhum              24.71      2.911     19.41         221        741       7891      30531       118|
som                  9             I      6.641        561       2341       9491      31211         361
KpZo" . gbAo .           10.2 94.9:7(1':44993
IL -----A A- I                  1)(I      IA fllI      127n1  ~    I I      flI A'lI   Aflflfl      2fl
J-V.r.                           -l     ~   .~1        A 1[        6J         741US7
Kpong-Trom                 16         T       2.87       391          65       1503       1542         36
1 Woena     I0                         I                                                    33AI   1
Trom_NkuurmIrun            34                  7.02        175^AY                          ICXq
HoDenu            1     ,0,-31          |     20 04l        321         1         -51I22 
I{A AAnvirA WA CP I        2n        , MI  i-R|  4 Ri       oRI       I onnl     7411      I R721'l
|Anyirawase-                                    --I                      I                                I
lAsikuma          I       23.81         1       6.311       1141        731       7R21      IR721        331
lAsikuma-Adomi    |       26.51                 9.431      i,60       121        9991      20951         33
NCB Components
Description of    Length      Cost       NPV       I     EIRR           AADT'94    AADT'01     Cost/km
Project         KM     I USSM       Ia 15%   |Before    I   After     Veh/day I Veh/day      000's
AJumako-Swedru           21.31      0.82[      0.85         67       32.31       235        6733 
Adeiso-A'kese -              I          I
lKade             1      61.41       1.611     18.331       67       220.51      8611      35691         2
iTamale-Karaga    |        301      0.431       17.51       251       2251       1931       6251         14|
Nakpandurl -
iGushegu-Yendi    1        811      2.251      18.31        551       121         481       1951        281
Sunyani-Buoku     I    I                     I          I                     I           I          I
bunyant-Buoku.72                         1221321                        5881      10351        Z
|Junction                  281      0.721       1.561       221          1
IAnWIAMI(W811ta-
IManso-Abore      |        101      0.341       1.18|       221        531       2621       904          34
lBekwal           1      25.31      3.711      0.421        551       17.41       120|      3851        1481
Tarwm-uugoso-                         I          I                      I                     I 
Bawdie           1       46.21      3.231      1.76         601      274         8621      15431        70
1 :                                                601       27~~3231j~.41
rtLu 0-16         I        .1'11    n ndl       o A-1       Al 1        SAe 'C1             -lo io       A Al
1. 1 v-- V |     I        i.Ui      V.nfI      0.1          -4II v    i                   101 .  .t
Tumu-Welembele r          371       0-7        3471         371      76.11        541        51
[RnCA _RIulo  I  CA c          I Ci                Iill Al     A2l2       A I fY
|Asikuma-K   yev  |        391       2.41      4.961        3         30.71      8951      10251
|wo'rawora        I       19.11      2.61      0.851        201        7.91      2091       2691       1361



^2595W 'V. KRlAto lilpula
(a) Missions:
I Stage of Project Cycle-                No. of Persons and Specialty.            Performance',Rating
2 E(e.g:2Eonomists, I FMS, etc.)-    Implemrentation Development
|gI~nt   teMonthJYear          Count           Specialty                       Progress   |  Objective"|
l dpntiCptnraln/PrepAn-rtnn   rll 
06/93                        1    Sr. Transport Specialist (TrL)
2    Consultants
I    Infrastructure Operations Officer
12/93                        1    Sr. Transport Specialist (TTL)
I    Economist
03/94                        1    Sr. Transport Specialist (TTL)
I    Economist
I    Consultant
I    Highway Engineer (Consultant)
07/94                         1   Sr. Transport Specialist (1TL)
I    Economist
I    Consultant
I    Highway Engineer (Consuitant)
|            11/94                         1   Sr. Transport Engineer (TTL)
I    Municipal Engineer
I    Financial Analyst
01/95                         1   Sr. Transport Specialist (TTL)
I   Principal Infrastructure
I    Fe,nrnmi.t
I    Procurement Spec. (Consultant)
II Sr. Urban Finance Spec
Environmental Spec. (ARD
Assoc.)
AppraisaUNegotiation
1        ~~~03i95          1i             I Sr-I ransport Speciaiist ( IL)
/    Municipal Engineer
I    rin. ln-Wr- ntUreII
I  |Economist
I                 I           I   I P.tte~~~~~~-remnt Spec.(C . II
Operations Analyst
Envirnrmental Spe.(ARD
12/95                        1    Sr. Infra. Engineer (TTL)
Infrastructure Engineer
Supervision
06/96            -£                           . .. nfm   ennPPr (TTI I LI-I
I vv   |    i | Highway Engineer (Cons.)
I                   I           I ~~~~~~~~~~I Trainingz Specialist
I   Infra. Engineer
10/96            1            1   Sr. Infra. Engineer MTTL)    I      S             S
I   Principal Engineer
. 34-



I   Infrastructure Engineer
r inancial Analyst
I Envirouunental Spec. (Cons.)
03/97                        i   rnncipai Engineer ( I I L)         S             S
I   Infrastructure Engineer
I   I*. AitL.n.Ia
I   Fi.nXal Alyst
05/97                        1   Principal Engineer (TTL)           S             S
2  n&--cture^e Enginee-r             ss
|/97        Ij| Project Officer, Infrastructure
AAIQ'7                       I   Prnrinnal Fno;nppr (TTt \
I   Infrastructure Engineer
I   Proiect Officer
12/97                        1   Principal Engineer (TTL)          S             S
I Infrastructure Engineer
I Sr. Transport Econornist
I Project Officer, Infiaswtuchre
06/98                        1   Principal Engineer (TTL)           S            S
I Highway Engineer (Consultant)
I   Project Officer, Infrastructure
10/98                         I infra. Enginecr (Consultant)       S             S
12/98                        1   Principal Engineer (TTL)          S             S
(Mid-term                   1   Engineer (Consultant)
Review)                      I   Project Officer
I   Principal Municipal Engineer
A6!99                        I   Pr.ncip Eng,inr(fl)l               SS
I   Principal Municipal Engineer
I   Transnort Snecialist
I   Infra. Engineer (Consultant)
2   Highway Engineer
I   SeniorOperations Officer
|       ~~I |Financial Analyst
I   Transport Econornist
I   (Consultant)
j          j ~~TeamnAssistant    
11/99                            Principal Engineer (TTL)          S             S
I   Principal Municipal Engineer
l       ~~I  Transport Specialist   
I   intra. tngineer (Consuitant)
I   Highway Engineer
I I I ~Senio,-Opra-tionsOffi.........cerII
|       ~~I |TeamnAssistant       
SrI OPrincipal Municipal Engineer
I   Highway Engineer
I   Team Assistant
05/00            |           I|1 Principal Engineer (TTL)           S             S
I1| PrinciDal Municipal Engineer
I |Trans'port Specialist
I |nfr. Engineer (Consultant)
I   Highway Engineer
- 35 -



I   Senior Operations Officer
I   Transport Economist
I   (Consultant)
I   Team Assistant
Environment Specialist
I2/0              j           I    Principal Municipal Engr. (T1TL)     S
I   Principal Engineer
I  ~ ~    I   ..I----.---II                                       S
I   Hignway Engineer
I   Infra. Engineer (Consultant)
I   Financial Management Specialist
1   Inntittinnal Analvst
I   Team Assistant
08/01                              Hihway Engineer (ITL)                S              S
I   Senior Economist
I| Procurement Specialist
I   Financial Management Specialist
Institutional Analyst
I   Public Sector Management Spec.
I   Team Assistant
ICR          12/01             |I               Transport Specialist (TTL)           S              S
I                    I           i  I Senior *:conon-us.                   s 
I    Transport Economist (RMI)
I    Engineer (Consultant)
|I Environmental Specialist
* * .    ..  ,      .        |      No. Staff weeks      |         US$ (00)
ioenuuication/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                      76.1                         201.1
aupervision                                                            484.27
ICRI
ITotai                           _                         I_I
As of Feb. II, 2002



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement nf bhipetivp/Onitnits nf rfCmnnnPnts
(H=High, SU-Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  O SU * M    ON   O NA
FU Sector Policies                       O H  *SUOM       O N  O NA
O Physical                               * H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
O Financial                              O H  O SU * M    O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
a Environmental                          O H  O SU * M    O N  O NA
Social
Poverty Reduction                O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
1Gender                           O H   O SU O M   O N   * NA
z Other (Please specify)          O H   0 SU * M   O N   O NA
Road Safety
I Private sector development             0 H  0 SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
IN Public sector management              0 H  0 SU 0 M    O N  0O NA
OOther (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM       O N  O NA
- 37 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6. Bank perfotrmance                                Rating
R7 I,..f...                                          T Lie £ c   ( it C    ii wI
Z Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
RIF Owrall                                          O   s aiV   S ) O   n O-HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
I Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU     O HU
e Government implementation performance             0 HS * S     0 U    0 HU
I Implementation agency performance                 O HS * S     O U    O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    0 HU
- 38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I. Staff Appraial Report no 14572 dated Anril IQ I996
2. Development Credit Agreement No. 2858-GH
3. Implementation Complet ion Report - Highway wtomr Inv  mmAnt wnmn-.Bm  R e Q porf.V
4. The Socio-Economic Impacts of Roads on Poverty Reduction
5. Consultant report on the Highway S-1-or Inve-4ment Drgrm
6. Joint Evaluation of the Road Sub-Sector Programme 1996 -2000, Netherlands Economic Institute for
7. Borrowers Annual and Quarterly Activity Reports
O. D -.A ..-., A-.-If~...
8. oadA F-und Ar,niual e,
9. Annual Technical and Financial Audits
IU. LVA(VI IJisuu sement uata
11. Project Preparation and Supervision Reports
-39 -



C
92'












IMA(^xIN(S
-1 Al% AC
Report No.:       -9zt
Type:    ICR



