FILE .COPY
GHANA IIGHWAY SECTOR
INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
DRAFT FINAL REPORT OF
THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY
Prepared for GHA and submitted to the World Bank by:
Associates in Rural Development, Inc.
110 Main Street
Burlington, Vermont
March 1995



TABLE OF CONTENTS
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS ....................................iii
PREFACE  .......................................................  iv
EXECUTIVE SUIMARY ............................................   1
POLICY, LEGAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK ...................  4
BACKGROUND AND PROJECT DESCRITION  ...........................  7
BASELINE DATA COLLECTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL DESCRIPTION .... ... 10
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE HSIC PROGRAM  .................... 13
MITIGATION AND MONITORING .....................................  18
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING  ...................... 26
i



APPENDICES
Appendix 1        - Terms of Reference
Appendix 2        - Persons Met
Appendix 3        - Environment in Ghana
Appendix 4        - Road Deterioration Process
Appendix 5        - List of roads in HSIP (as of February 1995)
Appendix 6        - Roads Sections Assessed in HSIP Field Study
Appendix 7        - Detailed EIAS of HSIP Roads
Appendix 8        - Organization charts of GHA and MRH
Appendix 9        - Mitigation Plan / Terms of Reference for Long-term GHA
Environmental Consultant
Appendix 10       - Training Plan for GHA
Appendix 11       - Sample Guideline of an EIA Outline for road projects
Appendix 12       - Minutes of Public Hearings from HSIP road Sections
ii



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGS                Accelerated Growth Strategy
ARD               Associates in Rural Development, Incorporated
BMU               Bridge Maintenance Unit
BRRI              Building and Road Research Institute
BMS               Bridge Condition and Maintenance System
DFR               Department of Feeder Roads
DUR               Department of Urban Roads
EPC                Environmental Protection Council
ERP               Economic Recovery Program
EIA               Environmental Impact Assessment
EPA               Environmental Protection Agency
FRP2               Second Feeder Roads Project
GHA               Ghana Highway Authority
GHAEU             Ghana Highway Authority Environment Unit
GWSC              Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
GIS               Geographic Information System
GOG               Government of Ghana
HSIC              Highway Sector Investment Credit
HGV               Heavy Goods Vehicle
MFEP              Ministry of Finance & Economic Planning
MRH               Ministry of Roads and Highways
MOTC              Ministry of Transport and Commnunications
MTP               Multimodal Transport Project
MRHEU             Ministry of Roads and Highways Environment Unit
MPBS              Maintenance Performance Budgeting System
MMU               Mobile Maintenance Unit
MIS               Management Information System
NDPC              National Development Planning Commission
NGO               Non-Governmental Organizations
NFRRMP            National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project
NECC              National Environment Coordinating Council
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
PMU               Project Management Unit
RTPU              Road Training Production Unit
TRP-1             First Transport Rehabilitation Project
TRP-2             Second Transport Rehabilitation Project
UTP               Urban Transport Project
iii



PREFACE
From 5 December 1994 to 3 February 1995 Associates in Rural Development, Inc.
consultants Dr. Andrea Katz and Dr. Anthony Tawia Amuzu undertook an Environmental
Impact Assessment of the Highway Sector Investment Credit Project (HSIC) in Ghana. This
assessment is to be included in the World Bank's pre-appraisal documentation for the project.
The consultants wish to thank Dr. Anil Bhandari, the World Bank Task Manager for HSIC,
staff of the Ghana Highway Authority and Ghana Environmental Protection Agency and
numerous other individuals, including those listed in Appendix 2.
This draft final report will be finalized in the light of comments received, and when complete
cost information has been compiled for the mitigation plan (see Table 1).
iv



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.    Ghana has experienced a series of major economic crises during the 1970s and early
1980s. The transport infrastructure, which is essential for the movement of key
exports and of farm products to market, faced virtual collapse during this period due
to shortage of foreign exchange and prolonged neglect of maintenance and
rehabilitation. Resulting high costs of transport have imposed critical barriers to
Ghana's continued economic growth.
2.   In 1983, the Government of Ghana (GOG) launched an Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) which provided for successive devaluations of the currency and, a return to a
system of market prices and cost recovery. Reform and (in some cases) divestiture of
state enterprises increases reliance on the private sector whenever possible. This
program emphasized restoration of agricultural production, the restoration of exports,
and the provision of essential imported inputs for agriculture and domestic industry.
To implement the ERP, GOG has given high priority to rehabilitation and maintenance
of all types of transport infrastructure.
3.   In accordance with the goals of the ERP, GOG's Ghana Highway Authority (GHA)
will receive funding from the World Bank to embark on a multi-year program of trunk
road rehabilitation. The objectives of GHA's program, the Highway Sector Investment
Credit Project (HSIC), are to: accelerate implementation of the road network
stabilization program; remove physical bottlenecks to the expansion of exports, farm
production and labor mobility; protect the investment in road infrastructure; reduce the
high vehicle operating costs through improved riding surfaces; strengthen GHA and
the Ministry of Roads and Highways' (MRH) institutional capacity; and strengthen the
local construction industry. HSIC is projected to rehabilitate approximately 140 km of
paved trunk roads and 1,900 km of paved/gravel trunk roads over a four-year
implementation period.
4.   In cooperation with the GHA, and in compliance with the World Bank and GOG's
requirements, Associates in Rural Development Inc. (ARD) provided consultants who
conducted an environmental impact assessments (EIA) of HSIC during the period 5
December 1994 to 3 February 1995. In accordance with the Terms of Reference
provided, the ARD team:
(i)   identified environmental issues which relate to road rehabilitation, while
providing definition of those issues which illustrate the type and scope of
issues which should be addressed during project implementation;
1



(ii)  identified potential adverse environmental changes which are normally
associated with road maintenance in general and, specifically, with the
participating areas in Ghana;
(iii)  identified environmental mitigation measures for each ecological region of
Ghana;
(iv)  prepared recommendations for ensuring that suggested environmental standards
and mitigation measures are complied with; and
(v)   analyzed the EIA system in Ghana and suggested ways to strengthen
institutional capacity of GHA to conduct environmental impact assessments and
environmental management of road sector project.
5.    The methodology utilized to conduct the site-specific environmental impact surveys of
the road sections included in HSIC was based on guidelines in the World Bank
Environmental Assessment Sourcebook.
6.    EIA field observations of HSIC road sections indicate that impacts will be fairly
benign and limited to the local area where the road works will be carried out. Severe
environmental impacts necessitating resettlement of communities, or causing damage
to fragile ecosystems will not occur to a significant extent as a result of the project.
7.    As no new road alignments are envisaged, direct negative impacts of HSIC will be
limited to soil erosion which may be due to improper designs of embankments or side
drains;-scouring of the landscape due to opening of borrow pits; destruction of
vegetation due to clearing rights-of-way and a lack of adequate provisions for
revegetation; dust, fumes, noise, and vibrations during road work; increased sediment
loads in streams and rivers where road crossings occur; and safety hazards created by
increased traffic flows and speed.
8.    Secondary impacts from the HSIC reconstruction will also occur. Prominent among
them is the possibility of induced development along more accessible road corridors
and opening up areas to natural resources to exploitation. Examples of the latter
include easing access to protected areas or forest reserves, thereby increasing the
chances of over-exploitation of wildlife, timber and fuel wood. HSIC road
rehabilitation may also cause land use changes and affect land ownership systems as
improved roads may increase market opportunities and, therefore, the value of land.
9.    Positive impacts from HSIC road irnprovement activities occur and indeed provide the
rationale for the project. Example include increase in value of agricultural products
due to improved access to markets, enhanced roadside commerce and increases in
social mobility.
2



I-
10.   GHA is giving increasing attention to strengthening its capabilities in the area of
environmental management of road projects including the production of EIAs. Plans
are underway to develop an environmental unit within the Planning division of GHIA.
11.   Recommendations to mitigate and monitor adverse environmental impacts of HSIC are
divided into the following categories: i) on-site maintenance; ii) institutional
strengthening and training; iii) environmental management of road construction and
maintenance actions; and iv) compliance with environmental requirements by
rehabilitation contractors.
12.   Major recommendations in the mitigation plan include:
(i)   hiring a long-term environmental specialist for two years to assist the fledgling
environmental unit of GHA in implementing environmental management
aspects of HSIC;
(ii)  to alleviate chronic road dust problems in settlements, road stretches through
busier towns and villages should be tarred;
(iii)  to reduce accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements, speed limits
should be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided;
(iv)  GHA should establish an environmental unit in the Planning Division to
oversee environmental management of trunk roads in concert with finalizing
and implementing a training plan to ensure that environmental management is
institutionalized into GHA work;
(v)   public hearings should be used to provide a forum for localities to discuss their
concerns about environmental aspects of upcoming road rehabilitation activities
with staff from GHA;
(vi)  GHA should develop plans to undertake an awareness campaign for
communities on environmental aspects of road works so that the public can
provide informed input to the EIA and environmental monitoring processes;
(vii)  strengthened institutional coordination and interagency arrangements are
necessary at district and national levels to ensure effective mitigation of road
work on the surroundinigs, and the impacts of other activities on the roads
themselves;
(viii) environmental protection clauses should be included in the construction bid
documents with clear penalties for non-compliance.
3



POLICY, LEGAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK
13.   The transport sector in Ghana is the main responsibility of two Ministries. The
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) is responsible for formnulation and
monitoring of policies and programs relating to public and private sector organizations,
and for overseeing the work of public sector agencies in ports, shipping, railways,
road, air and lake transport. Planning, construction, and maintenance of highways,
trunk roads, urban roads and feeder roads is the responsibility of the Ministry of Roads
and Highways (MRH).
14.   Within MRH three entities, the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR), the Department of
Urban Roads (DUR), and the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA), oversee different
parts of the national road system. DUR is responsible for about 1,920 km of urban
roads, DFR is responsible for approximately 22,000 km of feeder roads, while GHA
is accountable for 14,724 km trunk roads. HSIC will be implemented by the GHA
under MRH auspices. GHA was created in 1974 to serve as an semi-autonomous
authority to construct and maintain Ghana's trunk road system.
15.  In the past GHA has not undertaken extensive environmental impact assessments
(EIAs) as there was no regulatory authority systematically requiring such assessments.
Environmental issues were addressed, in a general way. Engineering/feasibility studies
were carried out either by GHA staff who were not trained in EIA preparation or by
consultants who did not work closely with GHA staff to transfer skills in EIA
preparation. There are currently no staff trained in environmental management and
there is no unit established in GHA (or in MRH) responsible for EIA and
environmental management of road projects.
16.   EIA procedures in Ghana have evolved since 1989 when a requirement was instigated
to screen and evaluate all developments, undertakings, and projects which may give
rise to significant environmental impacts.
17.   However, with recent passage of the Environmental Protection Act making it
mandatory for contractors to submit EIAs to the newly constituted Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), and the increasing number of donor projects in the road
sector requiring ELAs, it is necessary for the GHA to strengthen its capacity to conduct
environmental management. Consequently, MRH is considering adding an
Environmental Unit (EU) within the Planning Divisions of GHA, DFR, and DUR to
oversee responsibilities for EIA and environmental monitoring, planning and
management.
18.   The primary responsibility for environmental protection in Ghana rests with EPA
which was officially established in January 1995 as a result of passage of the 1995
Environmental Protection Act. EPA has taken over the responsibilities and mandates
of what was previously known as the Environmental Protection Council (EPC). EPAs
functions are:



(i)   to develop legal regulations and environmental standards pertaining to all
development activities;
(ii)  to enforce environmental regulations and apply sanctions in cases where there
is non-compliance with such regulations;
(iii)  to oversee the new legal requirements resulting from the Environmental
Protection Act which make it mandatory that all development projects submit
ELAs to the EPA and to assist in the systematic strengthening of the EIA
process in Ghana;
(iv)  to advise the Government generally on all environmental matters relating to the
social and economic life of Ghana;
(v)   to co-ordinate the activities of all bodies concerned with environmental matters
and to serve as a channel of communications between those bodies and the
Government;
(vi)  to conduct and promote investigations, studies, surveys, research and analysis
(including the training of personnel) relating to the improvement of Ghana's
environment and the maintenance of sound ecological systems;
(vii)  to serve as the official national body for co-operating and liaising with other
national bodies and international organizations on environmental matters;
(viii) to undertake such studies and submit such reports and recommendations as the
Government may request;
(ix)  to embark upon general environmental educational programs for the purpose of
creating an enlightened public opinion regarding the environment and an
awareness of the public's individual and collective role in its protection and
improvement;
(x)   to ensure the observance of proper safeguards in the planning and execution of
all development projects, including those already in existence, that are likely to
interfere with the quality of the environment;
(xi)  preparing legislation required for maintaining sound environmental standards.
Several laws already exist, but many of these require updating and new ones
are called for to meet the country's rapidly changing economic and social
conditions; and
5



(xii) establishing standards for the Government and private individuals on how best
any project can be set up so as to avoid the creation of environmental
problems.
19.   At present, EPA is concentrating on establishing EIA as a more widely accepted
practice. Detailed guidelines for ELAs for all sectors are also being developed. A
draft "Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment in Ghana" has been prepared.
This draft includes guidelines and instructions for preparing and submitting ELAs to
EPA (see Appendix 11). EPA is preparing a separate appendix to the draft guidelines,
in conjunction with GHA, detailing the preparation of road sector EIAs. EPA also
plans to conduct training workshops for relevant GOG agencies including GHA, on
preparation of EIAs based on the draft guidelines.
20.   EPA maintains offices in each region in Ghana (i.e. ten regional offices, including the
central office in Accra). The organizational structure of each office and of EPA as a
whole is currently undergoing substantial revisions as a result of the transition from
EPC in January 1995. EPC was an advisory council with no enforcement or
regulatory mandate. The result of current revisions in the EPA structure and mandate
reflect the increasing priority which GOG is placing on environmental matters and
conservation of natural resources in the context of national planning and development
activities.
6



BACKGROUND AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
21.   Ghana has experienced a series of major economic crises during the 1970s and early
1980s. The transport infrastructure, which is essential for movement of key exports
and farm products to market, faced virtual collapse due to shortage of foreign
exchange and prolonged neglect of maintenance and rehabilitation. Resulting high
costs of transportation ramified through most of the economy. In 1983, Ghana
launched an Economic Recovery Program (ERP). This provided for successive
devaluations of the currency, a return to a system of market prices and cost recovery,
reform and, in some cases, divestiture of state enterprises with reliance on the private
sector whenever possible. This program emphasized, as part of its strategy, restoration
of food and agricultural production, restoration of exports, and provision of essential
imported inputs for agriculture and domestic industry. To achieve this restructuring,
the Government has given high priority to rehabilitation and maintenance of transport
infrastructure.
22.   Under the ERP, with considerable support from donors, Ghana undertook emergency
repairs and rehabilitation of parts of its transport network, and initiated generally
sound and pragmatic institutional reforms. While these measures averted complete
breakdown of the transport system, much remains to be done to restore its capacity to
meet current and future needs, to strengthen management, rebuild sector institutions
and to make transport operations competitive, cost-effective and efficient.
23.   To successfully restore adequate transport capacity, particularly for the road system,
and rebuilding of efficient sector institutions, the GOG sought donor support. The
International Development Agency (IDA) sponsored First Transport Rehabilitation
Project (TRP-1), which started in 1988, marked the beginning of a phased programn for
sector-wide rehabilitation and strengthening. The Second Transport Rehabilitation
Project (TRP-2) and the National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project (NFRFIP) followed. Future support in the pipeline, in addition to HSIC,
includes the IDA sponsored Urban Transport Project (UTP), a proposed Multimodal
Transport Project (MTP), a proposed Second Feeder Roads Project (FRP). These
projects constitute a well conceived program for phased rehabilitation.
24.   The road network is the most important part of Ghana's transport infrastructure and
consists of: (i) 14,724 km of trunk roads; (ii) 22,000 km of feeder roads; and (iii)
1,920 km of urban roads. Road transport, carries some 94 percent of national freight
traffic and 97 percent of passenger traffic, much of it on trunk roads; the balance is
handled mainly by the railways.
25.   While recent road projects have made improvements in some areas, almost half the
trunk road network remains physically run down, disrupting goods and passenger



traffic, causing a high incidence of vehicle breakdowns and high vehicle operating
costs. Poor trunk roads continue to be a major constraint in all productive sectors of
the economy. Despite increases in external assistance and significant improvements in
domestic resource mobilization for rehabilitation and maintenance work, a continuing
backlog of work will result in further deterioration in the trunk road network without
additional resources. This situation has led to development of HSIC to focus on
improvement of conditions of the trunk road network.
Proiect Description
26.   HSIC will complement and reinforce IDA's ongoing assistance to Ghana in support of
its Accelerated Growth Strategy (AGS), and will continue efforts started under TRP-1
and TRP-2. The main objectives of the project are to:
(i)   accelerate implementation of GHA's trunk road stabilization program
developed in 1987;
(ii)  remove physical bottlenecks to expansion of exports, farm production and labor
mobility;
(iii)  protect earlier investment in trunk road infrastructure;
(iv)  reduce high vehicle operating costs through improved riding surfaces;
(v)  improve policies for road user charging, road maintenance funding, axle load
control and enforcement;
(vi)  strengthen GHA, MRH, the Development Planning Commission (NDPC), and
Ministry of Finance (MOF) institutional capacities; and
(vii)  strengthen the domestic private sector construction industry.
27.   The project will cover portions of the Government's 1995 to 1998 trunk road
stabilization program and consist of the following components:
(i)   reconstruction of 135 km of the following paved trunk roads:
(a)   Accra - Yamoransa - 115 km
(b)   Anwiankwanta - Kumasi - 20 km
(ii)  rehabilitation and periodic maintenance (resurfacing, resealing, regravelling) of
1,380 km of paved and gravel trunk roads under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) packages.
8



I-
(iii)  purchase of equipment, tools and spare parts for road maintenance, workshops,
laboratory and training;
(iv)  purchase of equipment, tools and other provisions for road safety, axle load
control and highway patrol;
(v)   consultant services for engineering design and studies, and for supervision of
contract works;
(vi)  strengthening of GHA, MRH, NDPC and domestic private sector contractor
capacities through training, technical assistance, and through demonstration on
practical field operations, in particular on bitumen surface dressing operations.
28.   HSIC rehabilitation work focuses on trunk roads which are not amenable to labor
intensive types of road work. Although labor-intensive methods would employ and
involve local communities in road rehabilitation work, such methods for trunk roads
would make HSIC much too time consuming and would decrease the effectiveness of
the project. Therefore, capital-based methods will be used in the rehabilitation works.
29.   GOG expects positive economic impacts from HSIC, especially increased agricultural
production due to improved road access to markets and improved distribution of
inputs. Significant impacts are expected in cocoa and maize production especially.
Improved transportation of agricultural products will enable farmers to obtain higher
prices since goods will be of higher quality when they reach the market. According to
a review for the Medium Term Agricultural Development Programme, recent
improvements in rural road rehabilitation have already begun to improve marketing of
agricultural commodities. Also, it is expected that rehabilitated roads will increase
transport of cocoa, other agricultural products and charcoal from more remote areas as
a result of decrease transportation costs. Further, the rehabilitation of roads will
increase social mobility, domestic market distribution system and information
exchange.
30.   The World Bank is planning a detailed study of the effects of HSIC on rural income
redistribution and related socioeconomic impacts. This study will be carried out
during the second or third quarter of 1995.
31.  Increases in local economic activity, such as marketing of rural products including
cocoa and charcoal may have negative environmental impacts. For example, pressure
to expand land area used for agriculture and excessive exploitation of forest resources
often lead to environmental deterioration.
32.   The EIA described in this report was undertaken before final determination of roads to
be included in HSIC. After completion of fieldwork several roads sections were added
which were not surveyed (see Environmental Impacts Section and Appendix 7).
9



BASELINE DATA COLLECTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL DESCRIPTION
33.   Procedures adopted during this environmental assessment are intended to meet both
World Bank requirements and those of the GOG. Report format specifically follows
that suggested by the World Bank for the most part. As noted above, the EPA of
Ghana is developing its own procedures and guidelines for EIA in general and the
road sector in general (see also Appendix 11).
Methodologv
34.   ELAs of specific road corridors earmarked for rehabilitation in HSIC (as in the World
Bank list of road sections from November 1994) were undertaken through site visits
from 13 December until 20 January 1995, to assess the primary and secondary impact
of the HSIC on the environment. Appendix 6 details the dates and names of the road
sections visited.
35.   Environmental impact surveys of the road sections in the HSIC (see Appendix 8 for
site-specific EIAs) followed guidelines in the World Bank Environmental Assessment
Sourcebook (1991):
(i)   Each environmental survey included a review of both direct and secondary
impacts of a particular road section as well as mitigation measures for
minimizing impacts in terms of:
a.    critical issues related to sensitivity of the ecological sites adjacent to the
road works;
b.   land-use patterns and related socioeconomic effects;
c.   impacts to specific sites of importance such as protected areas and areas
of cultural or religious significance;
d.   impacts to the socioeconomic environment, including impacts to existing
homes, community market sites, and prevailing sources of livelihood at
a particular site; and
e.    critical issues related to impacts from the operations of the road work,
such as impacts from noise, operation of machinery and winning of raw
materials for rehabilitation.



(ii)  Information was collected by:
a.    visiting each road section to observe the present environmental situation
and writing qualitative reviews of likely impacts to the physical
environment at that site;
b.    undertaking consultations with local authorities and affected populations,
both with beneficiaries as well as disadvantaged groups;
C.    undertaking discussions with NGOs and community groups or their
representatives; and
d.   reviewing existing written data on the physical, cultural, and
socioeconomic environment at that site.
Baseline Environmental Conditions
36.   HSIC trunk roads pass through a variety of broad ecological zones throughout the
country. An understanding of these basic environmental features and concomitant
human activities is vital to EIA and resultant planning of appropriate mitigation
measures. Roads visited during the EIA fieldwork covered all six ecological zones
relevant to HSIC. Descriptions of each zone are given in Appendix 3. More detailed
ecological, land use, impact and mitigation information for each road section visited is
provided in Appendix 6.
37.   Ecological zones of relevance to HSIC range from 750 mm to 2100 mm mean annual
rainfall; from dry savanna to rain forest; and from mangrove swamps and coastal
grasslands in the south to bushland in the north. The roads in question traverse areas
where forest products and wildlife are significant resources. However, the main
economic activities of local communities are agricultural. A wide variety of crops is
grown. Maize (Zea mays) is a common staple in most areas, although Guinea corn
(Sorghum spp.) is grown in drier regions. Cacoa is an important cash crop in the
moist forest zones.
38.   Road sections visited are in poor condition. Appendix 5 illustrates the factors leading
to and the overall process of deterioration in the absence of adequate maintenance.
Tarred roads have broken shoulders and potholes; gravel roads are badly corrugated
and, in some instances, reduced to virtually impassable bush tracks. Many bridges are
in poor repair and are too narrow for two-way traffic. During EIA fieldwork it was
noted that a few HSIC road section appear to have been rehabilitated already (see
Appendix 7).
39.  In most road corridors soil erosion is a serious problem due to inadequate design of
runoff drains and culverts. Additionally, improper revegetation of embankments on
11



bridge abutments and gravel borrow pits leads to increased water and wind erosion.
Road segments in the vicinity of settlements invariably have eroded shoulders, and in
extreme cases shoulder drops and gully erosion are often severe. Foundations of many
roadside buildings are extensively eroded. The erosion is caused by increased runoff
from the roads which have inadequate drainage for runoff control. This problem is
exacerbated by negative environmental practices such as denuding of vegetation on
hillsides and burning of ground cover vegetation in some areas.
40.   In many settlements houses and other buildings are built too close to the road. This
problem will make road rehabilitation and operation of road machinery difficult.
These buildings also constitute a potential safety hazard to road traffic and pedestrians.
41.   Road safety measures in most settlements are poorly implemented. Speed limits are
not enforced and pedestrian crossings are absent or ignored. Pull-off areas for vehicles
in settlements are either absent or in need of rehabilitation.
42.   Borrow pits have not been rehabilitated. They have neither been levelled nor
revegetated. These pits fill up with water during the rains when they may be used for
livestock watering. They normally dry up during the dry season. During wet seasons
they pose a significant health hazard for water borne diseases such as malaria and
schistosomiasis.
12



ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE HSIC PROGRAM
43.   HSIC will rehabilitate existing roads, the alignments of which already exist. However,
in many cases, these roads have deteriorated to such an extent that the rehabilitation
work in HSIC will be similar to new road construction in many areas. Although
direct effects on land tenure and related factors will be unimportant, secondary impacts
such as greater use of natural resources or growth of roadside settlements as a result of
increased access could be significant.
44.   Following are some of the more significant primary, or direct, environmental
impacts commonly associated with road construction, or the extensive rehabilitation
envisaged under HSIC.
(i)   Clearing around the right-of-way or for borrow pits may damage ecologically
sensitive areas such as forests, wetlands and wildlife refuges during capital-
intensive rehabilitation of the type envisaged in HSIC.
(ii)   Sedimentation or pollution of streams and other water bodies may result from
road works such as vegetation clearing, and from operation of heavy machinery
itself.
(iii)  After road rehabilitation further sedimentation may occur as a result of
inadequate or poorly designed erosion control and drainage measures.
Pollution levels may increase as a result of improved access for people and
livestock as a result of drinking, waste water and washing activities.
(iv)  Direct effects on roadside communities may include health problems resulting
from excessive noise and dust during road work, and as a result of increased
traffic after completion. Road safety problems may also be increased during
and after rehabilitation work.
45.   Secondary impacts commonly resulting from extensive road rehabilitation are listed
below. These result from increased access and commercial activity for the most part.
Although these impacts are indirect, they are often as important as direct effects, in
both positive and negative aspects. However, negative secondary aspects are often
more difficult to mitigate, since they spread beyond direct responsibilities of road
agencies.
(i)   Shifts in land-use and ownership may occur due to increased land value,
opening of new areas to markets and delivery of inputs and social services.
(ii)   Settlement patterns may change (for example, growth of existing villages or
formation of new settlements) as a result of increased commercial activity
along the road corridor.



(iii) Exploitation of forest products and wildlife may increase as result of market
access or land use changes, leading to a decline in the natural resource base
and biodiversity.
(iv)   Changes may occur in cultural practices and traditions as a result of increased
exposure to outside influences.
General impacts of HSIC
46.   HSIC will have positive impacts on road management since one of the objectives of
HSIC is to strengthen public sector agencies involved in the road sector. Part of this
improvement will include strengthening GHA's capability to supervise or undertake
ElAs and to monitor enviromnental impacts of road rehabilitation activities. Details of
proposed plans for institutional strengthening of GHA with regard to environmental
management are found in the section on Environmental Management and Training of
this report.
47.   Use of capital-based technologies for HSIC will involve use of graders, bulldozers and
large rollers to shape and compact the roads, and position reinforced precast concrete
culverts for drainage. These technologies utilize large amounts of soil for the road
bed, and for covering culverts to meet engineering requirements. Capital-based roads
also feature side drains and runouts. However, because they are periodically
maintained by large equipment, scour checks cannot be placed in the side drains to
control erosion and watercourse sedimentation.
48.   Capital-based construction methods require excavation leaving large areas that tends to
fill with water. The contractor is required to remove and store the topsoil and then
replace it and revegetate the area after completion of the work. However, contractors
interviewed have not done this and do not appear to consider it a contractual
obligation. The larger pits collect rainwater and runoff which potentially contributes
to an increase in diseases such as malaria and schistosomiasis. These borrow pits also
contribute to increased soil erosion. In some cases, excavated pits are left open for
future maintenance activities.
49.   The most notable direct adverse socioeconomic impacts from HSIC are those related
to increased safety hazards to pedestrians caused by: expansion of automobile traffic
(and speed); greater pedestrian road traffic resulting from expected increased
commerce as road conditions improve; and the proximity of houses sited too close to
the road to permit road rehabilitation to proceed efficiently. Positive impacts expected
from the road rehabilitation, which form the basis of project viability, include:
(i)   savings in transport costs, both in time and through modal transfers;
(ii)   more efficient transport of produce to markets; and
14



I-
(iii)  increased access to social and health services.
Summarv of ETA of HSIC Roads Sections
50.   The following paragraphs summarize EIA field work on road sections visited in Volta,
Eastern, Central, Western, Ashanti, Brong Ahafo, Upper East and West and the
Northern Regions between 13th December, 1994 and 16th January. As noted earlier,
roads visited were those expected to be included in HSIC at that time. Since then,
there has been some modification to the planned road sections falling under the
project. Nevertheless, the types of impacts listed for each ecological zone will likely
be applicable to any new road sections in those zones included in HSIC. Detailed
EIAs of each road section surveyed are found in Appendix 7. Road sections added to
HSIC after the EIA fieldwork, but before completion of this report are also listed in
Appendix 7.
51.   Primary impacts listed above are prevalent on most HSIC road sections. It is
unnecessary to repeat these impacts, for the most part, therefore. Secondary impacts
are more subtle and are highlighted in the following paragraphs.
52.   Most HSIC road sections do not traverse ecologically sensitive or protected areas, as
demarcated in Appendix 3. If any road section are added to HSIC which pass through
protected areas, GHA must ensure that construction is in accordance with guidelines
for protected areas as specified by the Ghana Game and Wildlife Department (GGWD)
and the EPA. It should be noted that HSIC improved roads may increase visitor (or
illegal activity) access to sensitive areas even where such areas are some distance from
the road. GGWD may wish to monitor such impacts.
53.   A few HSIC roads are in ecologically or culturally sensitive areas which were
identified during field work.
Sensitive Area Road Corridor
(i)   Esem Epam Forest Reserve; Swedru - Akim Oda
(ii)   Kakum Forest Reserve; Jukwa - Asebu
(iii)  Gbele Game Reserve; Fian - Wahabu
(iv)   Brenya Lagoon; Abandze - Elmina
(v)   Asukese Forest Reserve; Sunyani - Acherensua
Shrine Road Corridor
(i)   Sambo Shrine; Kwahu Tafo - Adawso
(ii)   Shrine at Faaman; Berekum - Sampa
15



54.   Rehabilitation of these roads will increase access to these areas. In the case of the
Gbele Game Reserve the rehabilitation of the Fian-Wahabu Road will impact
positively by facilitating access of tourists to the reserve. This should indirectly
generate income for the area which is considerably underdeveloped. The roads will
have a positive impact on shrines by facilitating travel for those who wish to consult
the oracles. Although visitor regulation to these areas is beyond the scope of GHA,
the relevant authorities should monitor, and if necessary control increased visitor use
(see Environmental Management and Training Section of this report).
55.   A large number of unimproved roads in HSIC are almost impassable. Rehabilitation
of such roads will increase access to rural areas in a similar way to new road
construction. Larger-scale commercial agriculture (including cocoa) will benefit in
similar ways. However, enhanced transport could induce a shift in land use if more
land is put into production. Demand for agricultural land could result in increased
pressure on forest resources, since land for expansion of production is generally scarce
in many areas.
56.   Improved roads may also affect logging of national forest. It is not expected that this
will result in increased production by licensed timber concessionaires, since their
quotas are strictly imposed and regulated. However, unlicensed loggers are harder to
monitor and may increase pressure on forest products. The Forestry Department
monitors cutting of all primary species. Class 1 species are individually identified and
concessionaires cannot cut these trees until they reach a specified girth. Due to the
encroachment of agriculture, certain species, such as odum (Milicia excelsa and
Milicia regia) are facing extreme pressure. Export of these hardwoods is now
controlled, but rehabilitation of trunk roads could increase illicit felling.
57.   In charcoal-producing areas, road improvement could increase cutting of trees. A
rehabilitated road will make it easier to get the charcoal out of the area, increasing the
economic potential of the product, but to the potential detriment of local wood stocks.
An economic analysis of charcoal production, including transport costs, has not been
done, but rehabilitation of roads will affect the amount and price of charcoal produced.
58.   A significant secondary impact of rehabilitated roads could be the increased soil
erosion if the roads are not routinely maintained. Sustainability depends on the
contribution of labor by the communities served by the roads. Although beyond the
immediate scope of this EIA, it is crucial that a planning process be developed that
provides methodologies and techniques for facilitating community participation in the
road maintenance to minimize future environmental impacts.
59.   In most settlements, very few pedestrian crossings, traffic control systems and
overpasses have been erected. Safety patrol personnel were also non-existent. There
is potential for increased pedestrian-vehicle and vehicle-vehicle conflicts as traffic
volume and speeds increase as a result of rehabilitation.
16



60.   In some of settlements, houses are too close to the road resulting in pedestrian -
vehicular conflict and potential accidents. Again this problem will likely grow as
traffic increases.
61.   Dust is a major environmental problem on gravel roads. When vehicles pass (or
during high winds in the absence of vehicles), road dust in settlements is an extreme
inconvenience and health hazard. In the Northern Sector cyclists and passengers in
open vehicles on untarred roads were seen to have nose guards for protection against
dust. Dust also pollutes surface water used for drinking purposes.
62.   In the northern half of the country, negative environmental practices such as burning
of vegetation have almost eliminated ground vegetation cover and could be increasing
runoff which in turn erodes the road corridors
17



MITIGATION AND MONITORING
63.   The following recommendations to mitigate potential direct and secondary impacts of
HSIC rehabilitated roads, and monitor implementation of those mitigation measures,
have been written in accordance with the MRH/GHA Twenty Year Road Development
Plan (1995-2015). Table 1 at the end of this section lists specific mitigation
recommendations including, who should carry them out and when, and implications
for project costs. Note that several recommendations in Table 1 stem from more
detailed discussion in the "Environmental Management and Training" section of this
report.
64.   Recommendations to mitigate potential adverse environmental impacts of the HSIC are
divided into the following categories: i) on-site environmental monitoring and
supervision; ii) institutional strengthening and training; iii) environmental
management; and iv) contractual compliance.
On-site Environmental Monitoring and Supervision
65.   Monitoring to ensure compliance with environmental mitigation measures will entail
close collaboration with consultant(s) hired for HSIC to supervise the road
rehabilitation work of contractors.
66.   Development of the proposed EU within GHA will take time. Therefore, technical
assistance from a specialist (i.e., a long-term consultant) with a background in
environmental management, should be sought to work within GHA's Environmental
Unit (EU), for a period of two years. EU staff will gradually assume the duties of this
consultant, achieving full responsibility before the end of the second project year.
This environmental specialist (a proposed Terms of Reference is presented in
Appendix 9) will assist the three staff members proposed for the EU to:
(i)   oversee environmental aspects of the contractors work (in conjunction with the
consultant who will be hired to manage the overall contractors work);
(ii)  establish an ongoing monitoring program to ensure that the recommendations
made for mitigating the on-site impacts of HSIC are closely adhered to;
67.   Cutting of hills for roads disturbs ecosystems in diverse ways. The environmental
specialist should be enlisted before taking up hill road construction to help prevent
landslides and soil erosion and the resulting severe damage to orchards, agricultural
channels, natural streams and built-up areas which are sources of nuisance and
expenditure. The environmental specialist, in consultation with site supervisor
consultants should have authority to halt work or impose financial penalties on
contractors for non-compliance with Ghanaian environmental laws or rehabilitation
contracts.



68.   Criteria should be established for tarring sections of gravel roads which pass through
settlements with population equal to or more than  , and with traffic flows
equal to or more than        . This provision will help ameliorate the widespread
problem of dust which is especially important on road sections of gravel/laterite which
run through settlements. The cost of tarring will be absorbed within the overall cost
of the HSIC project.
69.   Local public hearings, already initiated by GHA, on rehabilitation of road sections
should continue and be expanded to include environmental concerns. GHA's EU, in
conjunction with the long-term consultant, should attend these public hearings early in
the project to ensure that environmental concerns are expressed. Over time, district
GHA staff should be trained to assume this role. Assistance from EPA staff could be
enlisted, also.
70.   GHA should work closely with the EPA to develop road sector-specific EIA guidelines
which will serve as a reference to assist local consultants and GHA staff to undertake
road ELAs in the future.
71.   Before final payment is made to contractors, stockpiling of topsoil and its replacement
and revegetation of the road corridor and gravel pits should be required. The number
of excavated pits should be minimized.
72.   Design and contract specifications for HSIC, should include measures and costs
regarding ways in which the highway landscape will be enhanced, through the use of
such activities as group plantations, multiple row plantations and plantation of shrubs,
grassing of embankment slopes and shoulders, filling borrow-pits or considering
converting them to aquaculture ponds, and treating scars on the hill faces by planting
shrubs and trees. These provisions should be specified in the bill of quantities of
future tender documents so that contractors recognize the requirements during the
preparation of tenders.
73.   The GHA long-term environmental consultant, in conjunction with the consultant(s)
hired to supervise on-site construction activities, will conduct EIAs for each road
section prior to rehabilitation work in order to identify site and region specific impacts
and to make certain that each road section utilizes environmentally sound practices. If
the pace of the project requires it, additional short-term consultants will be hired to
assist with these EIAs.
74.   Proper environmental guideline documents (see bibliography) should be consulted
when the environmental specialist or any other staff on the HSIC project assesses the
conditions and structural adequacy of existing drainage structures and facilities with a
view toward recommending improvements to meet hydrological and hydraulic needs.
19



75.   Design specifications and contracts for HSIC should include provisions for adequate
drainage for all roads, especially where they pass through human settlements, as these
are prone to erosion when no drainage channels have been provided. Roadside drains
in settlements should be covered to prevent accidents.
76.   To reduce traffic accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements, speed limits
should be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
Institutional Strengthening and Environmental Training
77.   These issues are discussed in detail in the "Environmental Management and Training"
section of this report. To ensure completeness of this mitigation section they are
briefly listed as follows:
(i)   GHA should establish an EU in the Planning Division which will be staffed by
three persons to oversee the management of all environmental activities of
GHA;
(ii)   GHA should finalize and cost its a training plan, to ensure that environmental
management is institutionalized into all GHA work (see Appendix 10). As a
matter of urgency, GHA should recruit environmental science personnel to train
highway engineers and managers in environmentally sound practices; and
(iii)  GHA should develop plans and a budget to allow the long-term consultant and
staff from the EU to undertake environmental awareness campaigns including
mobile training seminars on public participation in determining environmental
impacts of road projects, and the public role in monitoring implementation of
mitigating measures.
Environmental Management
78.   By the end of the two year tenure of the environmental specialist, EU staff should be
trained and be ready to take over the ongoing supervision of environmental
management of GHAs' activities, including HSIC.
79.   EU staff should liaise and coordinate with EPA to develop environmental standards
and policies for road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance activities. These
provisions would include, but not be limited to, roads that cause direct impacts in
crossing or passing close to wetlands, forests, wildlife sanctuaries, religious sites and
other environmentally sensitive areas.
80.  Interagency coordination arrangements should be developed to enable EU staff to
L              confer with other relevant government agencies at district and national levels to deal
20



with specific road sector issues (such as conferring with the Forestry Department to
ensure that improved access does not cause forest loss).
Contractual Compliance
81.   Environmental protection clauses should be included in the construction bid documents
and resulting contracts, with clear penalties for non-compliance. These clauses should
define drainage requirements, dust control, erosion control, stream crossing, road
safety, tree cutting, illegal poaching, or harassing of wildlife and control of
contaminants such as fuel and lubricants. Landscape rehabilitation and enhancement
clauses should also be included.
21



Table 1                          Mitigation Plan for HSIC
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~L'
1.1                    GHA                      Within first four months of  2 years consultant
Hire long-term                                  project start-up        salary, vehicle, running
environmental specialist                                                costs, benefits, housing,
office equipment,
secretarial support
1.2                    Contractors supervised   Throughout              Absorbed as part of
Tar road sections in   by GHA consultants      implementation           construction cost of
settlements                                                             HSIC Project
1.3                    GHA District offices in  Throughout              No additional project
Public hearings        conjunction with long-   implementation prior to    cost
term environmental      rehab. of each section
consultant and EU staff
1.4                    EPA in conjunction with    By end of 1995        Production and
Develop Road-specific    long-term environmental                        distribution costs
EIA Guidelines         consultant and EU staff
1.5                    contractor supervised by   Throughout            Absorbed as part of
Rehabilitate gravel pits    GHA consultants    implementation           construction cost of
HSIC Project
1.6                    contractor supervised by   Throughout            Absorbed as part of
Rehabilitate landscape    GHA consultants      implementation           construction cost of
HSIC Project
1.7                    long-term environmental   Throughout             Absorbed in cost of
Road section specific  consultant and EU staff   implementation prior to    long-term environmental
ElAs                   with GHA consultants    rehab. of each section    specialist
1.8                    long-term environmental   First quarter of start-up  Expect that documents
Collect and use World    consultant and EU staff                        can be obtained free of
Bank and other                                                          cost
environmental guideline
documents
1.9                    Contractor in consultation   Throughout          No additional cost
Drainage design        with long-term          implementation
specifications         environmental consultant
and EU staff with GHA
consultants
1.10                   Contractor in consultation   Throughout          Absorbed as part of
Road safety measures    with long-term         implementation           construction cost
environmental consultant
and EU staff with GHA
consultants
22



Table 1                          Mitigation Plan for HSIC
TASK.   WHO                     WHEN :.'7~~~~><  :.:K<;:1'COSTM
2.1                     GHA                     Within six months of    Cost of 3 full time
Establish Environmental                         project start-up        professional staff and
Unit (EU)                                                               support staff will be
bome by GHA.
Provision of additional
equipment and supplies
to be agreed upon
between GHA and
HSIC/WB.
2.2                     GHA Training Division   Finalization prior to   (See Training Plan)
Finalize and implement    with assistance of long-    project start-up
Environmental Training    term environmental
Plan. This includes in-    consultant and EU staff
country and foreign
training and study tours.
2.3                     GHA, long-term          Throughout implemen-    Video production,
Mobile public awareness  environmental consultant  tation, but prior to  fielding mobile unit,
l seminars             and EU staff in         rehabilitation of each   information
collaboration with Ghana   road section         dissemination materials
Information Services and
Ghana Education Service
3.1                     GHA                     Six months prior to end    Absorbed as part of
Fully operational EU                            of two year tenure of   training and
long-term environmental   establishment of EU
specialist
3.2                     EU staff                Throughout implemen-    In accordance with legal
Legal compliance with                          tation, but prior to     compensation
compensation                                    rehabilitation of each  regulations
regulations                                    road section
3.3                     Long-term environmental   During first two years of   No additional cost
Develop road-related   consultant and EU staff   project implementation
environmental policy    in collaboration with EPA
and other appropriate
GOG line agencies
3.4                     Long-term environmental   Prior to and during   No additional cost
Inter-agency coordination  consultant and EU staff   rehabilitation of each
with local GHA office and  road section
other GOG line agency
representatives
4.1 and 4.2             Long-term environmental   Prior to issuing      Absorbed as part of
Environmental protection   consultant in conjunction   rehabilitation contracts    construction costs
clauses in rehabilitation   wcth HSIC FMU
contract
23



Additional Mitigation Measures
82.  The measures listed above (and in Table 1) are regarded as the minimum required to
ensure that HSIC's environmental impacts are minimized. In the following paragraphs
a series of suggestions is made which would further enhance road rehabilitation work.
Their incorporation into HSIC should be considered during negotiations between GHA
and the World Bank.
83.   GHA should consider the development of a spatial data base, such as a Geographic
Information System (GIS), to assist in recording maintenance activities, designing
drainage systems and storing information on land-use patterns adjacent to roads. In
developing such a system, GHA should consult with EPA and other government
agencies to ensure compatibility with other existing or planned GIS systems.
84.   GHA will be hiring consultants, including local consultants, in the near future to
conduct studies on engineering details for development of HSIC tender documents.
These consultants should consider all of the recommendations in this report and the
EIA Guidelines found in Appendix 11.
85.  Increase in truck transport will increase demands for rest places, toilet facilities, eating
places, vulcanizing shops, and repair facilities along the trunk roads. The present
unsightly growth of shacks and service shops along the highways cause a visual
intrusion and unhealthy and unsanitary conditions. Private-enterprise should be
required to develop properly planned wayside amenities for truck-drivers.
86.   Truck parking places should be planned and constructed along busy roads. Operation
and maintenance of the complexes, including the construction of building, could be
met from a revolving fund operated by a Society of Truck Operations.
87.  In areas where erosion of foundations of roadside houses is very severe it was noticed
that stones are piled around the foundations to counteract erosion. This is an
indigenous method of erosion control which could be propagated country-wide.
88.   Burning of vegetation on the road shoulders is a countrywide practice which should be
discouraged. In addition to broader environmental concerns, darnage to the fabric of
the road occurs due to heat and indirectly as a result of erosion in the denuded
landscape. This problem was noticed in several areas during the field visit such as on
the Kpandu-Adomi-Ho corridor. Cutting the weeds by the edge of the road or the use
of an environmentally benign chemical could reduce this problem.
89.   While it is not recommended that existing buildings be removed, in the future
planning and zoning laws should be strictly enforced to reduce these conflicts to
prevent construction of buildings too close to roadways. Existing regulations are
24



regularly flouted throughout the country. The Town and Country Planning Department
should enforce these laws more rigorously.
90.   Problems with consistent labor supply for routine maintenance of smaller trunk roads
have developed due to lack effective incentive systems. A better understanding of
available labor and incentive structures of rural communities is necessary to facilitate
community participation in road maintenance. To enhance this understanding, an
applied research effort is proposed. Several communities in diverse ecological and
socioeconomic situations should be selected for case studies that identify the following
key variables affecting community participation in road maintenance:
(i)   public opinion on the effect of a road section on their socioeconomic condition
and the relative importance road rehabilitation to the community;
(ii)  seasonal household and community labor profiles (by sex) and constraints;
(iii)  spatial location of households in relation to the rehabilitated roads and their
participation in maintenance;
(iv)  the role and influence of traditional and other leaders in mobilizing community
work efforts;
(v)   the role of direct incentives in community participation in road maintenance;
(vi)   major beneficiaries of the road in the community and their contribution to
routine maintenance;
(vii)  the influence of proposed GHA and other training programs on community-
based maintenance; and
(viii) the potential role of communities in evaluating direct environmental impacts of
road rehabilitation;
Results of these case studies could be used by GHA and road committees to develop
rapid techniques for identifying the key incentives and constraints within specific
communities and facilitate community participation in maintenance of smaller trunk
roads.
25



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING
91.   To date, there is no specific environmental management entity in the structure of
GHA. For the road sector, limited environmental reviews, often a few paragraphs, are
presently conducted for rehabilitation projects. Furthermore, findings of these limited
environmental studies are not necessarily incorporated into projects. EIAs are not
systematically undertaken of road projects.
92.   Recent passage of the Environmental Protection Act legally mandates that developers
submit EIAs to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for all infrastructure
projects, including road rehabilitation. To reflect this increasing attention being
focused on environmental protection in the framework of Ghana's development
programs it has been recommended that GHA add a new dimension to their
organizational structure, that of environmental management and impact assessment.1/
Appendix 11 provides proposed guidelines for road-related ELAs and EPAs formatting
requirements for EIAs.
93.   The following recommendations are made to enhance environmental management
capability in the road sector. These recommendations cover institutional structure
within MRH and GHA; intersectoral coordination at national and local levels; training
in environmental aspects of road development; and public consultation and
participation. Although recommendations pertain to HSIC in particular, they reflect a
broader interest in strengthened environmental management for the road sector as a
whole. HSIC could usefully function as a pilot program in this broader context. Key
recommendations are included in Table 1 of the "Mitigation and Monitoring" section
of this report.
Institutional Structure
94.   GHA's institutional capacity should be strengthened to prepare ELAs of plans and
projects in order to ensure that biophysical and human environmental concerns are
considered in the planning and implementation of roads programs. The specific
objectives should be to:
(i)   enhance the capacity of GHA to commission, supervise and critically assess
ELMs (and in some circumstances to undertake ELAs itself);
I/Based upon the results of two recent organization and management duties undertaken for the GHA (Report on the
Organizational, Management, and Institutional capacity Assessment study of the GHA, Practical Management
Associates, 1994 and The Report on the Revision of Organizational Structure for GHA, PAS 1994) a revised
management structure is currently under consideration. However, no provisions were made in either of these two
studies for incorporating environmental impact assessment capability into the proposed GHA structure.
26



(ii)  identify prevalent negative environmental impacts of typical road projects on
ecosystems of the country and determine practical measures that would result
in the reduction of environmental damage;
(iii) identify or develop appropriate training materials on environmental
management of road development, and arrange training;
(iv)  create or strengthen an interdisciplinary capability throughout the country,
especially intersectoral coordination at the local level, to assess environmental
impacts (primary and secondary) of projects and ensure implementation of
mitigation measures; and
(v)   promote environmentally sound development through the application of
engineering techniques which reduce environmental deterioration to the lowest
feasible level.
95.   An Environmental Unit (EU) within the Planning Division of GHA should be
established as a condition of HSIC implementation (see Appendix 8 for current and
recommended organizational structure of MRH and GHA). In the first instance, this
GHAEU should comprise an environmental manager overseeing two environmental
supervisors, all of whom are suitably qualified in environmental management issues.
The unit will have responsibility for commissioning and supervision of EIAs,
monitoring ongoing environmental aspects of road construction and rehabilitation
projects, and coordination with regional GHA staff who will also be trained in
environmental management. GHAEU will be responsible, as necessary, for hiring and
developing terms of reference for outside specialists to undertake EIAs and monitor
implementation of mitigation measures.
96.   A functional EU will take several months to be established, and longer to become
functional. To ensure proper environmental supervision of HSIC in the meantime, it is
recomnmended that GHA hire a (preferably local) long-term environmental consultant
for the first two years of the project. This consultant would work with staff of the
embryonic EU in initiating the tasks outlined above, in addition to monitoring on-site
rehabilitation activities listed in the "Mitigation and Monitoring" sections of this
report.
97.   More specifically, the long-term consultant would work with the other HSIC
consultants, hired to supervise rehabilitation contractors, to ensure compliance with
established environmental standards developed as a result of this ELA. If new road
sections are included in HSIC, this consultant would perform such site specific ELAs
as are necessary. Suggested Terms of Reference for the long-term environmental
consultant are provided in Appendix 9.
L
27



98.   Although outside the immediate scope of HSIC, it is recommended that other MRH
departments (DFR and DUR) establish similar environmental units. A coordinating
Environmental Committee (MRHEC), composed of representatives senior staff of each
EU, will be essential to ensure consistency in environmental procedures throughout
MRH. MRHEC will help formulate environmental policy and standards for road
projects on an ongoing basis; discuss factors that hinder effective implementation and
enforcement and ways to improve the system; discuss ways to improve EIA
procedures (including incorporation of expertise from existing academic, NGO, and
private sector firms); and review experience of other countries in Africa, and other
regions in formulating effective strategies for dealing with environmental aspects of
road projects.
99.   Activities of MRH EUs and MRHEC must be coordinated closely with EPA. For
example. EPA is currently working with MRH in developing EIA guidelines for the
road sector. This relationship should be a starting point for close consultation on
environmental management issues. EPA representatives should be present as advisors
and active participants in MRHEC meetings to ensure that MRH policies and practices
comply with national requirements. At the local level also, EPA should be intimately
involved in ensuring consultations with local groups during EIA preparation,
monitoring implementation of mitigation measures, and coordination with other
government agencies (see below).
Interagencv coordination
100.  At the national level it is desirable to create a National Environmental Coordination
Commnittee (NECC) to determine policy and provide guidelines for the formation of
environmental policies which relate to roadways and other infrastructure development.
This committee would be convened by EPA with representation from key ministries
and agencies involved in infrastructural activities, including MRH, the Ghana Water
and Sewerage Corporation, the Electricity Corporation of Ghana, the Volta River
Authority, Posts and Telecommunication and Town and Country Planning. NECC
would guide the development of industry and infrastructure in Ghana to ensure that
environmental considerations are included in planning and policy formulation
processes.
101.  Coordination with other sectors is also important. As noted in the "Environmental
Impacts" section of this report, road rehabilitation has reciprocal implications for
exploitation of natural resources. For example, agricultural land use changes may
occur, patterns of exploitation of timber and fuelwood may be impacted, and bushfires
may have detrimental effects on rehabilitated roads. Clearly, GHA is not responsible
for regulating such activities. These impacts are most noticeable at the level of
individual road sections. Therefore, coordination should be at the regional or district
level involving relevant agencies and EPA and be in consultation with local
communities.
28



Training
102.  In view of the limited consideration of broad environmental concerns in the past, a
significant training program is necessary to enhance environmental management
capacity at MRH. While this effort must focus on GHA for the purposes of
implementing HSIC, it will be more cost effective if DFR and DUR are included,
rather than conducting separate training programs. Training should include MRH staff
at central and local levels and be coordinated by the MRHEC recommended above (or
by the GHAEU if other departments do not participate at this stage).
103.  An appropriate training program will include workshops and seminars, field visits and
on-the-job training. Although most training will be in Ghana, efforts should be made
by GHAEU and EPA (with assistance from the World Bank) to identify suitable
regional training programs and study tours which MRH staff could attend.
104.  Details of suggested elements of a training program are included as Appendix 10
(along with GHA's proposed training plan. Salient recommendations for the shorter-
term include:
a)   initial training for selected management and senior engineering staff at central
and regional levels should consist of a training module of 3 - 5 days based on
the World Bank Environmental Assessment Sourcebook and Roads and the
Environment: A Handbook in addition to HSIC road section case studies;
b)    an Environmental Training Handbook for GHA staff should be developed that
demonstrates procedures for environmentally sound methods of soil
stabilization, drainage, gravel winning, and minimizing damage to and
restoration of adjacent areas;
c)    during further design phases of HSIC, World Bank staff or consultants should
help to identify methods, approaches and programs to train staff on integration
of environmental concerns into GHA planning, design and training activities.
d)    GHA staff and potential private-sector consultants should participate in the
upcoming training workshops which will be sponsored by the EPA on
"preparing EIA reports in accordance with the EPA new requirements and
guidelines."
105.  In the longer-term MRH management, environmental and engineering staff should
become conversant with EIA methodology and environmental management related to
road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance procedures. Such training should
include secondary impacts as well as the more obvious direct effects of roads, systems
of interagency cooperation and public participation.
29



Public Participation
106.  GHA has recently introduced a process of conducting public hearings as part of
planning of road rehabilitation works. Public involvement can potentially provide
diminished likelihood of subsequent environmental and socioeconomic problems along
road corridors and surrounding areas. GHA plans to systematize such hearings as a
regular part of the planning process. The minutes of three recent public hearings
conducted for HSIC roads by GHA are found in Appendix 12. These minutes show
the type of valuable information the public can provide with respect to their
knowledge of local conditions and the planned road designs. However, it is clear that
environmental issues are rarely mentioned at these hearings.
107.  It is recommended that these public hearings be a requirement of rehabilitation of road
sections under HSIC. However, their scope should be extended to specifically include
environmental concerns. As local inhabitants may not be familiar with the means of
mitigating adverse impacts that they routinely encounter, a public education campaign
is required to familiarize the public about their rights and responsibilities concerning
EIA.
108.  GHA, with assistance from EPA, should develop, and use during implementation of
HSIC, mobile training seminars for communities along or close to the road corridors.
These seminars (perhaps eventually including videos) would describe the EIA process
including primary and secondary impacts which may affect the environment and
livelihood of these communities. Such seminars would precede public hearings.
These seminars could also stress the importance of community involvement in road
maintenance and long-term sustainability of road systems. Assistance should be
sought from the Ghanaian Education and Information Services.
109.  Public participation in monitoring implementation of mitigating measures during HSIC
should be encouraged. Provided the public is made sufficiently aware of
environmental requirements of rehabilitation contractors (see above), community
members are a powerful influence upon compliance. GHA should ensure that
consultants supervising the contractors canvass public opinion on environmental (and
other aspects) of performance.
30



aA-
APPENDICES



Appendix 1
Terms of Reference



APPENDIX I
GHANA HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTING SERVICES (EIA)
FOR THE HIGHWAY SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
(1995-1997)
1. 0 INTRODUCTION
1.01 The transport infrastructure faced virtual collapse during the
1970's and early 1980's due to shortage of foreign exchange
and prolonged neglect of maintenance and rehabilitation.
However, in 1983, Ghana launched the Economic Recovery Program
(ERP) to turn the economy round. This program emphasized, as
part of its strategy, the rehabilitation and maintenance of
* all modes of transport infrastructure.
Under the ERP, with considerable support from IDA and other
donor agencies, Ghana has undertaken emergency repairs and
rehabilitation of parts of its road transport network..
However, the restoration of adequate transport capacity,
particularly for the road system and the rebuilding of
efficient sector institutions, will take about a decade or
more of concerted efforts to complete.  The Government has
therefore formulated an Accelerated Growth Strategy to
generate additional resources to facilitate improvement in
overall standards of living and quality of life, which will
necessitate  even  larger  investment  in  the  transport
infrastructural base of the country.
.Complementary to the foregoing in the .road 'sector bhave been a
well-conceived program  for phased rehabilitation  of  the
transport -sector... and . its instituti9ns ... 'Included in.... the
. packaged programme are- the. Transport' Rehabilitation. Project
(TRP-1), the Second Transport Rehabilitation Project' (TRP-2),
* the National. Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Project.. (NFRRMP), an Urban Transpor.t Project  (UTP), the
*  proposed Highway Sector Investment. Credit (HSIC), a proposed
Multi-modal Transport Project and a proposed' Second Feeder
Roads Project.
1.02 The project will complement and reinforce IDA's 'ongoing
assistance' to Ghana. in support of its Accelerated Growth
StrategyJ(AGS), and will continue the efforts started under
TRP-1 and TRP-2.  The main objectives of the project are to:
a)        accelerate implementation of GHA's trunk road
improvement program developed in 1978;
b)        remove physical bottlenecks to the expansions
L.              -    .of  exports,  farm  production  and  labour
-                           mobility;
1



APPENDIX 1
c)       protect  earlier  investment  in  trunK. road
infrastructure;
d)        reduce  the  high  operating  costs  through
improved riding surfaces;
e)        improve policies for road user charging road
rmaintenance funding, axle load control and
road traffic-safety;
f)        strengthen GHA, MRH and MOTC institutional
capacities, and
g)        strengthen  the  domestic  private  sector
-construction industry.
1.03 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
The programme is part of.the Government's 1995 to 1997 trunk
road improvement programme and consists of the following
components:
a)        periodic maintenance (resurfacing, resealing
and regravelling) of 1600 km of paved and
gravel trunk roads;
b)        rehabilitation of 300 km of paved trunk roads;
-Yt5;-5--,it-;;;vj- -_-S-- recons  c   ;on`,           v    .ed'-.rink:-ro'ads;-
*    .i    ,.   ..    \    -   .-: .. .. -  . - . -* w  'wrX  ;    .  v' ' - 
.i-e -    -a? ----purchas&   -eo         nd.spared.parts
,or ,-,,..,,...,.,.;-, R n.,-, wo,r3shops, .labporatory and
-     ~~trai'ning              -
- e):       purchase..of  equipment, tools  and. other
provis'ons o  road s@fety, axle load control
and- highway 'jpatr6l~t-*
consultat                  engineering design
-and- studies:and    -supervision of contract
work;      -
. > . .. - .stenghe n
g)        strengthening'of GHA, MRH, MOTC and domestic
private sector contractor capacities through
;  training,, technical -.assistance and through
demonstration on- practical field operations,
in 'particular on bitumen surface dressing
operations.
L
2



APPENDIX 1
1.04 SOURCE-OF FUNDING
The Environmental Impacts Assessment Consultancy Services
would be funded by the IDA from the PPF of the Highway Sector
Investment Credit.
2.0  CONSULTANCY SERVICES
2.01 The Consultant's Services under this TOR is to assess the
direct   and   indirect   environmental   impacts   of   the
implementation of items (a), (b) and (c) in accordance with the
National Environmental Policy and the Environmental Action
Plan (EAP of EPC, 1991).
2.02 OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the Consultancy Services under this TOR are,
in accordance with the National Environmental Policy and the
Environmental Action Plan (EPC, 1991), to:
i)       Assess  the  impacts  of  the  maintenance,
- rehabilitation and reconstruction apctivities
, of the project on the environment within the
various road corridors.
ii)      Assess impacts on human, animals and plants
and their habitats.
iii)    - Suggest,rgmedial  solutions  for  the  sound
_ ecos
} ~~~~~cQ1giat  oese. - r-                           6         ,  
2.03 SCOPE OF SERVICES    ',-- *..',. .. -'. -- -  -
With the foregoing:i,obetives, ;in- the view therefore,' the
assessment will be coerned wLth both the negative and --
positive.impacts;,o'. the-  riodic,maintenance (resurfacing,
-resealing kand    '            .4600.km of paved'and gr'ayel,'
trunk roads; rehabilt              m-of paved trunk roads and :
. reconstruction-of 100-1cm   '-paved, trunk roads, within 'the ;
immediate corridors of the given roads.
The Consultant subsequently engaged shall conduct the task of
assignment specified herein, on the,given environs as required
to  attain  the  stated' objectives.    In ,conducting  the-
assignment, the Consultant shall collect base-line data on the
roads and enyironment.  The Consultant, based on the data
'-  -   ~collected,, shkll :                   
i)       provide useful information about the possible
3



positive and negative environmental impacts of
the project
--  ii)   identify  mitigating measures  and  residual
impacts  that  cannot  be  mitigated   but
compensated for incorporation in the project
proposals.   Opportunities for environmental
-.,.*;< '                . enhancement-  should  be  explored.        The
Consultant shall be solely responsible for
the collection, interpretation of all data,
studies  reviewed  and  for  findings  and
recommendations contained in the environmental
impact studies reports. Besides the extent
and quality of available data, key data gaps
.and reliability associated with predictions
should be identified or estimated. All topics
that do not require further attention should
also be highlighted.
iii)      assess  and  evaluate  alternatives  directed
towards   choice  of  the   environmentally
acceptable ones which are, also economically
feasible.
2.04 Preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment for a highway
project involves several steps, starting from a clear
understanding of the- development objectives, collection of
base-line  data,  evaluation  of  alternatives  to  overall
- .  assessment, ,-of ,the .environmental impact. of the. selected
2.05 The. onsultant ,  ncarrying out. the. assign t_ ' :Id
' ' -,i). -  igive -iiformation on the' existing situation as
"--regards  the road  system, road  transport,
. . -environmental features.etc.. and the need for
-the proposed project
''b,ring  ogt: the physical  and  environmental.
,.features, of the alternatives investigated for.
'.      --.;the - proposed  project  e.g.' the -.terrain,
'category  of  land  to be 'affected 'by  the
' 'p,roject,    displacement    of '-households,
vegetation, flood hazards, erosion -potential,
drainage and adverse impact on water flow,-air
-         quality, noise level etc.. . .
iii)      assign  reasons  for choosing  the  selected
alternatives,  and  highlight  the  specific
i*t    -  merits -of  the  chosen * alternative-' from
environmental angle.
4



iv)      discuss the probable impact of the selected
alternative on the environment, water, land
use, erosion and wildlife and habitat and
indigenous people living along thi* corridors
etc.   Both beneficial and adverse impacts
should be included.  Measures proposed for
mitigating the adverse impacts should be
highlighted.  Since these issues may involve
.~p A-national,  regional  and  local  government
agencies  and  cover  a  broad  range  of
responsibilities there should be coordination
among related government agencies, local
groups and NGO's.
- Variables to be used may include land
acquisition, highway location alignment and
cross-section, soil erosion and sedimentation,
drainage,   vegetation,   traffic   movement,
construction,  air quality,  traffic  litter
noise and vibrations, dust pollution, water
quality and disruption of human settlements.
v)        do an overall assessment of the impact of the
selected alternative on the environment in
terms of the positive and negative impacts of
the project. The proposed remedial measures
-     for mitigating the negative along with their
possible effect should also be brought out
:..'.              X :of .-'impact 'of .oh    --.the --:d4fferent
:' e-vAoment:alaspects vary :depndA- i:. .t:ots.such 'as the
. ..|:-. t..:    Larea (urban'r -rura   tr n(fiat., to i ling,
i : hilly  oir - mountainous), -the:  and-se pttern of .the. area
(residential, educational, indAstrial,  griutural etc.I
.    : :  -.- .      W: .     -..    .  -.  - *T -:-,..:.;z-    :: .  -. : . -  ..
.- Consultant--shall assess the dinpat -on -the environment,
|'land-use, erosion, quality of-air,  noise levels,- highway-
aesthetics and :wildlife habitat An..j are--of- -influence of the
- .    '     .' - - "t' . .;The, Cnsultant, as sta.ted :arliero  --shall-recommend
. '. -  -- apprppriate  .'solutions  to -mitigateany   .undesirable
'I .;''. envixonmentU  effects resulting -'directly-- -.from the project..
The- analyses shall include, but: not'iimited to. the following:
.  ' ''  i)  preservation  of  areas' and  land-use  of
particular value including agricultural and
national conservation  areas,  cultural and
historicL sites, forests--and'other. important.
natural 'resources.
-ii)      Reinstatement! -of  .. borrowpits    through
restoration of top soil in gravel pits and
provision with drainage arrangements.



AI'1IML)IJA 1
t
iii)    . Disturbance  of  vegetation  and  plans  for
grassing  and  planting  of  roadside  and
provision of wayside facilities for travellers
etc.
iv)       Prevention of water stagnation and its
health hazards.
v)        Protection of wildlife and habitat, health and
movement of indigenous people in the project
area.
2.07 The Consultant shall carry out inter alia, the following
tasks:--
-      To collect basic data for the existing roads.  These
should include inventory data of the road, terrain,
structural condition of the road, land-use,, traffic,
accident and. environmental data on climate, wildlife, airX
- >pollution, noise level and others.
The purpose of assessment of the environmental quality of the
existing route is for comparison with the estimated
environmental quality after the implementation of the proposed
highway alternative.
The Consultant should incorporate in his report a Monitoring
Plan which should specify the type of monitoring, the
- personnel to monitor,. hogpw-*ucj1twould cost and what other
=       -rhe -Appendiceas-to-Uthe           _-                       --- -
i~~~ 's                                                       <.  '  -   5-;; u>v   
*;- $;   -i)    - -List ~of             y ~uih  and *organization  who
s; :-- -- - - helpEd Vi#npmental :1Impact Assessment
,_4F >bttj;C','X@ -' ~,  , reparait$g2 &  
>  -,,'ii')  . Referenc-esd  p*i4ten matarials used in the
i ~~~~~~td-. i  ; tjfl- ! -. ! :
,,,,,,,ii) - Recor  o:'a,n,,nt,er-,Agency/Forum meeting -.
this ,-,-  --;,aff.ected : groups. ard' local
NGO's.,
3.0 'DURATION OF STUDY AND DEADLrNES FOR SUBMISSION OF REPORTS
,           ..    ,- -  -,   ,,        .     
3.01 The Consultant.shall submit-the following report within the
time specified herein:
.  -   -  i)      An Inzeption -Report detailing comments bn
Terms'of Reference, preliminary assessment'of
the  baseline  conditions  to  be  used  in



measuring   the  environmental   impact   and
establish the methodology for the study and
the  environmental  justification  for  the
implementation of the various aspects of the
project within 3 weeks of the start of the
assignment.
GHA will communicate its comments within 14
days on receipt of the report. (10 copies).
ii)       A Draft Final Report detailing findings of the
study and environmental justification for the '
various parts of the project within 7 weeks.
GHA will communicate its comments within 14
days on receipt of the report.  (20 copies).
.:.jiii)  A Final Report incorporating comments on (i),
(ii)  above within 2 weeks (14) days from
submission of the Draft Final Report.   (20
copies)
4.0                 PROPOSED KEY PROFESSIONAL
STAFF COMPOSITION AND PERIOD OF ASSIGNMENT
4.01     The study will require the services of an Environmental
Consulting Firm with experience in road construction.
The following multi-disciplinary team and period of
* j-~             assignment are proposed by the employer.
-qua l - I f.ed   .f  c.
i-. --HShe)--must have   digif.c2in
~i~1i~r~y r--ffic/Environmentai.nging
*       - -wi-  mai imumof 15 years experi&&c of- ;
:. .   .  -   .-: -: hh a minilmum of 5 years iuut have been
7    Ai i.....environmental impact study or trunk'
- .- ro.v  -. construction    projects    and
.... . qual ...-itative.:. and. quantitative  research
*.. -.    - ethds.  -(35 months). -;
.  . i.i).:.  -  -Ge_ ogical/Geotechnical Engineer- .:He
-:--(She3. must  have   a    degee.     -
.    eology/Geotechnical Engineering with a
-                      -       minimum of 12 years experience of* which a
minimum of 5 years must have been in
!  - .  environmental --impact assessment study.
-               (1.0 month).
iii)      Environmentalist:  He (She), must have a
iiJ,                         ---degree in Natural or Physical Sciences
-.1                              -with a minimum of 12 years experience of
- which a minimum of 5 years must have been
.   ,              .               -.7



in environmental impact assessment.  (3.0
months).
iv)      Land-use Ecologist: He (She) must have a
degree in Geography with a minimum of 10
years experience of which a minimum of 5
years must have been in land-use and
soils  investigations  in  environmental
impact study. (1.5 months).
v)        Sociologist: He (She) must have a degree
in Sociology with a minimum of 10 years
experience, 5 years of which should have
been   in  sociaL.- investigation   in
-       *                      environmental impact study. (1.0 month).
8.- -. '. ... -
|  .  .   ,   _   .   .                    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.  .
I   .     .                                     '   ,~~~~~~~~~



Appendix 2
Persons Met



Appendix 2
LIST OF PERSONS MET BY HSIP ENVIRONMENTAL MISSION
MINISTRY OF ROADS AND HIGHWAYS (MRH)
1.   Hon. Dr. Ato Quashie        -    Minister
2.   Hon. Alhaji Amadu Seidu     -    Deputy Minister
3.   Mr. K.. Abbey Sam           -    Chief Director
GHANA HIGHWAY AUTHORITY - ACCRA
4.   Mr. B.L.T. Sakibu           -    Chief Executive
5.   Mr. A.K. Hammond            -    Deputy Chief Executive(Admin.)
6.   Mr. S.K. Nunoo              -    Deputy Chief Executive(Mtce.)
7.   Dr. F. Addo-Abedi           -    Deputy Chief Executive(Dev.)
8.   Mr. M.G. Anafi              -    Director (Planning)
9.   Mr. E. Asafo-Adjei          -    Director (Road Maintenance)
10.  Mr. K. Asare Awuku           -    Director (Survey & Design)
11.  Mr. Y. Opoku-Mensah          -    Principal Engineer (Planning)
12.  Mr. S. Venkatesan            -    Advisory Consulting Engineer
13.  Mr. J.B. Mathur              -    Consultant (Highway Planner)
14.  Mr. Bert Entwi               -    Director (Public Relations)
15.  Mr. Charles Jojo Rhabbles    -    Principal Engineer
16.  Mr. David Adonteng           -    Assistant Engineer
17.  Mr. Agyeman-Dua             -    Senior Economist
18.  Miss Rita P{nkrah           -    Engineer-in-Training
19. # Mr. S.M. Tetteh             -    Director of Training



GHA REGIONAL
20.  Nana Akwasi Agyepong        -    Project Engineer (Brong Ahafo)
21.  Mr. Victor Owusu            -    Maintenance Engineer (Brong Ahafo)
22.  Mr. Francis Dzegble         -    Project Engineer (Upper West)
23.  Mr. Abu                     -    District Engineer (Upper East)
24.  Mr. Philip Agbati           -    Project Engineer (Tamale)
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT (PMU)
25.  Mr. P.S. Sanmugannathan     -    Project Manager



Appendix 3
Environment in Ghana



I-
APPENDIX 3
ECOLOGY OF THE HSIP REGIONS
1.   The Navrongo-Naga, Fian-Wahabu, Lawra-Han, Bole-Chache, Nakpanduri-
Sakpiegu, Ketekrachi-Nakpayili, Wa-Sombo, Bolga-Bawku and part of the
Techiman-Bamboi roads are all located in the Interior Wooded Savanna (Northem
Savanna). It covers the northern two thirds of the country and together with the
Volta Lake covers some 156,300 sq.km (Hall and Swaine 1981; Silviconsult 1985).
Climatically the area may be divided in two as areas north and south of Salaga
respectively. The northem areas have a single rainy season (May to October)
followed by a prolong dry season. The mean annual rainfall ranges from 1000-
1150mm with mean monthly temperatures ranging from 360C in March to 270C in
August. Relative humidity ranges from a high of 70-90% (rainy season) to a low of
20% (dry season). Zuarungu is a typical climatic station for this region. The
sourthem areas are more or less a modified form of tropical-continental or wet semi-
equitorial climate. Mean annual rainfall is between 1150-1250mm and occur in two
seasons, a minor in May to June (sometimes obscured) and a major in September to
October. Mean monthly temperatures range from about 3OoC in March to about
24oC in August whilst the humidity ranges from 90 to 95% in the rainy season to 75
to 80% in the dry season. Kintampo represents a typical climatic station for this
area.
2.   Trees typical and adapted to the area include Adansonia digitata (Baobab),
Butryspermum sp (Sheanut), Accacia sp and Dawadawa. Trees are usually few and
scattered. Grasses are generally in tussocks and may reach 3 metres high. The
areas especially in the more densely populated north-eastem parts have come
under prolonged anthorpogenic pressures (bush burning, overgrazing, farming)
resulting in the presence of fewer trees and shorter grasses in a largely open
country.
3.   Three quarters of the region are covered by ground water lateritic soils. They
are generally shallow with cemented layer of ironstone (iron pan) which does not
allow water to penetrate. This creates a phenomenon where soils get quickly
waterlogged in the rainy season and dry out in the dry season. Savanna ochrosols,
well drained, porous but with less organic matter and nutrients make up the other
major soils groups.
4.   The area is noted for its big game and has the largest National Park (The
Mole National Park, 4914 sq.km), Bui National Park, 2074 sq.km and Gbele Game
Production Reserve (547 sq.km) located there. Animals include Elephants,
Ungulates (Antelopes, Duikers, Hartebeest, Wildebeest, etc.), Warthogs, Crocodiles
and Primates (Baboons).



5.   Parts of the Ho-Denu, the Techiman-Bamboi, the Berekum-Sampa are in the
Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest (Fire Zone) whilst Roads from Mpraeso, Kpando-
Worawora, Hohoe-Boradu-Jasikan, Ho-Adomi, Kpong-Trom, Trom-Nkurakan,
Adomi-Akosombo, Adomi-Kpong, all fall within the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest (Fire
Zone). On the other hand the roads from Ajumako-Bobikuma-Swedru, Ajumako-
Amanfopong, Atabadze Junction-Elmina-Ankaful-Jukwa Road Junction-Asebu,
Kofondua-Mamfe, Koforidua-Asesewa, Mamfe-Adukrom, all fall within the Dry Semi-
Deciduous (Inner Zone) whilst parts of the Winneba-Swedru-Eshiam (Akim Oda) and
Sunyani-Acherensua also fall in this zone. The dry semi-deciduous forest occupies
21,440 sq.km or 26,4% of the total forest zone area of Ghana (Swaine and Hall
1981; Silviconsult, 1985). Found as a peripheral band around the moister forest
types to the south and adjacent to the Guinea Savanna Zone to the north, it has
lower three heights than those of the most semi-deciduous forest (Hall and Swaine,
1981). Wth an annual fainfall of 1250-1500 mm, it comprises of a water subtype
characterised by species such as Hymenostegia afzelli (Takoradi) and a drer
subtype containing species such as Diospyros mespiliformis (Keke) and Anogeissus
leiocarpus (Kane). Afzelia africana (Papao), Coffea rupestris (Hall and Swaine,
1976, Owusu et al, 1989).
6.   Principal soils are forest ochrosols not heavily leached as forest oxysols and
generally contain more nutrients. In some areas derived savanna (wooded/tree
savanna) have resulted from fores destruction from frequent use as farmlands by
man. This is prominent in areas close to the forest-savanna interphase.
7.   The road from Sunyani-Acherensua partly falls in the Moist Semi-Deciduous
(North-West subtype) whilst all of the road from Bediako-Nkrankwanta also falls in
this zone. On the other roads from Anwiaso-Asokwa, Juaso-Obogu, Akim Oda-Kusi-
Kade and Kwabeng-Abomosu, all fall within the Moist Semi-deciduous forest (South
East subtype) together with parts of the Winneba-Swedru-Eshiam (Akim Oda) road.
The moist semi-deciduous as a whole occupies some 32,890 sq.km forming 40.4%
of the total forest zone area of Ghana. This type of forest is sub-divided into the
north-west and south-east subtypes with the scarps at Kwahu and Mampong and
the Western Ashanti hills featuring as prominent topographical features. Principal
soils are highly coloured forest ochrosols which are generally alkaline and have
large quantities of nutrients. The area has an annual two peak (May-June,
September to October) rainfall of 1200-1800 mm with trees often exceeding 50m,
the tallest in the Ghanaian Forest (Hall and Swaine, 1981). Average monthly
relative humidities (12 noon) are highest 75-80% during the rainy seasons and
lowest 70-80% during the rest of the year. Kumasi is typical for this climatic region.
The soils support many tree crops and practically all the cocoa in Ghana are grown
on these soils. In addition the area is considered the most important timber
production and is characterised by species such as Entandophragma utile (Utile),
Khaya, ivorensis (African Mahagony) Tniplochiton scleroxylon (Wawa). Other
characteristic species of the North West Subtype include Argomuellera macrophylla,
Chlamydocarya thomsoniana, Guibounta ehie (Anokye Hyedua). The north-west
part subtype harbours more elephants Loxodonita afncana than any other part of
Ghana's forest (Hall and Swaine, 1981).



8.   The Alabokazo-Tikobo road lies in the mangrove zone of the south-westem
extremities of Ghana. The area receives the highest annual rainfall 1500-2100 mm.
The soils are black/dark grey, water logged, alkaline and salty with trees up to 12-15
metres in height. Two main mangroves can be found, namely the Red mangrove
Rhizophora racemosa found on the sea and side of saline lagoons and the
white/olive mangrove Avecinnia africana (A. nitida) on the landward side of the
swam (FAO/UNEP, 1981). However, the road is also partly close to the wet
evergreen forest type of the north. The major trees of economic importance are
coconut and rubber. However, bamboo and raphia palms are important sources of
building materials.
9.   Many Avian (bird) species, reptiles and mammals exist there. Oysters,
crustaceans (crabs, prawns) and fishes are caught for subsistence purposes.
10.  The Ayanfuri-Diaso and the Diaso-Humjibre-Sefwi Bekwai roads line in the
moist evergreen forest zone. The zone is transitional between the wet evergreen
and moist semi-deciduous forests. It covers 17,770 sq.km about 21.8% of total
forest area. It has great floristic diversity and greater number of commercial timber
species (Hall and Swaine, 1981). Its annual rainfall is 1500-1700mm and is also a
two-peak maxima.
11.  Finally the Domi-Kitase road lies within the coastal scrub and grassland
thickets zone to the south zone and the southem marginal forest zone to the north.
The southem marginal forest is made up of 2,300 sq.km of forest about 2.9% of the
total forest zone. Precipation is low 1000-1250m per annum and soils generally
shallow. Trees are sparse and small in nature. The coastal scrubland has rainfall of
740-890mm lowest in Ghana. Relative humidity is high all year round with Baobab
(Adansonia), Neem (Azadirachta sp) and fan Palms (Borassus aethiopum) being
common. The last is a bio-indicator of poor soils.



I-
FOREST ZONES IN GHANA
.  .                                                  1~~~~SZ.
Distribution of forest types
(Soaaca. Hs and Swawie, 1981; Fore Rcsoures Management Proec. Y=nasLu inlit.)
WE wet evergren. MAE moist cvergreen MS moist semi-decduous. (NWY ordh-wes
subtype, SE soudta subte). DS dry semi-deciduous (FZ me zone subtype, IZ inner
zone subtype). UE upland evcrgrcee. SM soudern marginsL Ma mungrove (source for
mnrowve zoc Forest Resources Management Project, Kumasi). Forest is stippled.
Table 21.1 Forest zone types and their coverage in Ghana
Type                         Area (sq. ki)  Percentage of total
forest zone area
Wer evergreen                   6,570                 8.1
Moist evergreen             - 17,770                21.8
Moist semi-deciduous           32,890               40.4
Dry semi-deciduous             21,440               26.4
Upland cvergreen        -         292                 0.3



PROTECTED AREAS IN GHANA
X iGBELE RR
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '
1~~~~4~~4
] WUI~~~~tl NP 2j 
KYABOIIO NP
_ DIG'A NP
w., . V ~~~~~~~KOGYAESNR t'
BOMFOBIRI WS 4                 AGUMATSA WS
BIhA NP OWVABI NVS
~BIA RR                                1j 
KAtAKPA 1RR
ASSIN-MTANDANSO RR      SUM IHILLS RR
';KAKUM NP
: COM          NI-SUIMEN NP
ANKASA RR
LOCATION OF GWD PROTECTED AREAS
S'ith the addition of the Ramsar sites and the proposed Kyabobo Range INP and Agumatsu
WS the protected areas will extend ovcr 13,489 km2 or 5.66% of Ghana.



Appendix 4
Road Deterioration Process



road surfaoo ID  low lo drain ~ ~     ~    ~     l
/                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Growth of
vegetation
Road                        Gras growing              Obsxtucion ID                Sltn|  Side drain
(A          Deterioralng                on ditch       Ibw odf lat f                                                                                                                                           9 sa  Road becomes
FactDrs                                                                                                                                                                                          destrayod &
n~arrower
O                                                                                                                                                          U \    tJnderrmines
embankment
kmows at                  road surface                      Potdters, ntss                                     Fogualion oe
surface                                                     corrugatlon                  camber                 duplressin
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e VosLs fFraino
CoWJQStiOfl         caberdepression
Soun~             Ashantif Regional OfcC                                            d                    D        wo                                                  R     
l~~~~~~~~~~ln
Source: OFR, Ashanti Regional OHfice



I
Appendix 5
List of roads in HSIP (as of February 1995)



Page 2 of 4'
LIST OF ROADS IN HSIP (AS OF FEBRUARY 19951
LCB PACKAGES (IDA)
aLOT #. RBGION  |    DESCRIPTION       IIMPROVE LNGTHICOST $MIITLEMENTATION I
1 |                                    I MENT   (KM) I        I  PERIOD
FI                                     I       I  -           I -    -   -- I 
1   Upper EastjBolga-Bawku           I R        30.01  4.9501Jan.'97-Dec.'s8|
F   I                                 .I1      1     I                        1
2   Upper WeatjFian-Wahabu           I U    | 48.l1  1.5781Oct.'95-Mar.4971
I                 I                   I          I       I            I
3   Upper WestjLawra-Han             I U    j 30.01  0.9901Apr.'97-Sep.'98I
| 4   Upper WeetjWa-Sombo              I P   | 25.0|  2.750|0ct.'9s-Sep.'971
u   I            I            '                1      1                       1
S   Northern  IBole-Chache           I U    1 35.61  1.78Oloct .95-Mar.5971
6   Ashanti   j1.Anwiaao-ABokwa         U    | 35.61  l.i750ct.'95-Mar.'97j
I                I                             I      I       I                I
I                            j |2.Juaso-Obogu      | P    1 13.01  l.430IJan.'97-Dec.'9go
I           I                     ~ ~~~I  I       I       I                I
7   Central   IAtabadze Jn-Elmina ) a        I      I       I                I
fAnkaful-Jukwa Jn-  )   P    1 21.-51  2.365IOct.'95-Sep.'971
I                lAsebu              ) |
(    (                     I      ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~I  I 1
I 8   Central   |Ayanfuri-Diaso        | P    I 55.01  6.050 Jul.'96-Jun.'98)
I |              I                     I       I      I       I                I
1 9   Central   jAjumako-Babikuma-  ) | P    1 27.31  3.003(Oct.'95-Sep.1971
I                jSwedru             ) |              I       1
*   I               ~~~ ~~ ~~I              I      l       I       I                1
|10   Western   Il.Diaso-Humjibre-  ) | P    | 25.0)  2.750)Oct.'95-Sep.'971
I                I Sefwi-Bekwai      )
i1   t              ~~~ ~~~~~I              I      I       I       I                I
12.Alabokazo-Tikobo ) | R    | 30.01  l.800lOCt.'95-sep.*971
III  Greater-   IDomi-Kitase              R    1 23.01  3.79510ct.'95-Sep.'971
I |  Accra                             1       I      I       I
(112  Eastern    iMpraeso-Kwahu Tafo-) |
I |Adawso                                       )      P      35.01 3.850Orct.'95-Dec.'90g
1                1                     I       I      I       I                I
113   Eastern   |Akim Oda-Kusi-lcade   | R    1 29.0)  4.785)Jan.'97-Dec.'981
j1l4  Volta     |Jasikan-worawora      IP         1 I7.41 1.914l0ct.'95-Mar.1971
I                I                     I       I      I       I                I
1iS  Eastern    fKwabeng-Abomosu          R       20.01  3.300IJan,'97-Dec.-981
I                I                     I -            I
I                         .I           1       I 500.0j 48.2651                I
I___       -____ .1 _____ _ _ _.__ 1 ____ I           I__   .  I__  .____   _  I



SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST & FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
COMPONEINTS         TOTAL   IDA     GOG   OECF   KFW
t      |          G z A                      =      =      =      =
A. Civil Works
1. Reconstruction
1.lAccra-Yamoransa ll5km   81.0             8.10  72.9
I |         1.2 Anwiankwanta-Kumasi-
25km   20.00    _      .00  18.00   -
Sub-total           140km  101.00    _    10.10  90.90   -
2. Rehabilitation and
nI               Periodic Maintenance
2.1 Regravelling,
Resealing, Resurfac-
ri ging of Roads in
Brong Ahafo and
Ashanti Regions
LCB Package#  (KFW)    15.99   -        1.601   -   14.39
2.2 ICB Packagefl (IDA)
93km    7.81   6.871  0.94    -
n s .         2.3 ICB Package#2 (IDA)
330km   10.69   9.41   1.28    -
2.4 Regravelling of
F'            *Ketekrachi-Nakpayili,
& Bediako-Nkrankwanta
Roads            180km    5.34   -       0.53         4.81
F'            2.5 LCB Packages (IDA)
480km   48.27  28.96  19.311
2.6 LCB Package#3(GOG)      66.00    -    66.0
3. Bridges    (ICB) -        4.75   4.1 .6   0       _ 57
1tSub-totai Roadworks                 42.42i1.:  ; - .*
B. Design & Supervision I                                     l
ri            1. Design                     5.90   5.90   -      2
2. Suoervision               5.30   1.20   -    2.53   1.57
Fl            Sub-total Design & Super   11.20   7.10   -    2.53 1.571
C. Building  Works           8-59   7-731  G.e61   -  |  -
n |~~D_ Eauipment, Tools 
I  Spares                      . 96-  6.265   5701      I  -
FE             E. Institutional Support    7 33   7.33         ! 3 
Sub-total GHA              293.93  79.89|1'1.89 93. 3120.77
rS                 _.                             _
ii



] _                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ras t; >.J -,
LENGTH  TYPE    TOTAL                    IMPLEMENTATION
KMs   IMPT. BASE COST  IDA    BOG           PERIOD
ICB LOT# 1 (IDA)
I. CENTRAL/EASTERN
i) Winneba-Swedru-       30.0    p         3.3C    2.90    0.40   OCt.9S-Sep.97
Eshiam-Akim Oda
]  (  ii) Eshiam-Akim Oda  40.0    5        1.40    1.267   0 173  Oct.9S-Sep.97
I _____
iii) Eshiam-Akim Oda       23.0    R         3.975   3.498   0.477  Oct.95-Sep.97
_                                   ~~~~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~93.0  8.675   7 .665   l oS
7-               ~~~~~ICB LOT'" 2 (IDA)
II. EASTERN/VOLTA          330.0    S        11.88   10.4S    1.43   Oct.95-Sep.97
i) Ho-Denu              101.2
ii) Ho-Anyirawase         20.0
iii) Anyirawase-Asikuma   23.8
r-r  _*:Asikuma-Ado i     26.5
v) Adomi-Akosombo         9.5
vi) Kpong-Adomi           10.0
;i i) Kpong -Trorm         16.0
viii) Trom-Nkurakan         36.0
ix) Koforidua-mamfe       30.0
x) Koforidua-Asesewa    46.0
xi) Mamfe-Adukrom         ;1.0
S           . .    __   .   _   ,- ._.T ~
tUpoer East   o0..- .:k1.             .                     .     7-Dec.z9S
Sunyani-Acher:ensua
Berekuim-SamDa L-
e^:> man-2a.:    R-.'



1.,1
Appendix 6
Roads Sections Assessed in HSIP Field Study



APPENDIX 8
Page I of 2
ROADS ASSESSED UNDER THE HSIP
ROAD                                                 DATE ASSESSED
1.    Adomi - Akosombo                                      13/12/94
2.    Adomi - Ho                                            13/12/94
3.    Kpong - Trom                                         21/12/94
4.    Kpando - Worawora                                     21/12/94
5.    Jasikan Worawora                                     22/12/94
6.    Hohoe - Jasikan                                       22/12/94
7.    Ketekrachi - Nakpanyili                               22/12/94
8.    Asesewa - Koforidua                                   23/12/94
9.    Winneba Junction - Swedru-Akim Oda                    28/12/94
10.   Akim Oda - Kusi-Kade                                 28/12/94
11.   Atabadze Junction - Elmina-Ankaful
Jukwa Rd. Jnuction - Asebu                           29/12/94
12.   Alabokazo - Tikobo No.1                              29/12/94
13.   Ayanfuri-Diaso-Jumjibre
Sefwi Bekwai                                         30/12/94
14.   Ajumako - Swedru                                     31/12/94
15.   Kwabeng - Abomosu                                     10/01/95
16.   Mpraeso - Kwahu Tafo-Adawso                           11/01/95
17.   Juaso- Obogu                                          11/01/95
18.   Sunyani - Acherensua                                  12/01/95
*t         19.   Bediako - Nkrankwanta                                 12/01/95
20.   Berekum - Sampa                                       13/01/95
21.   Techiman - Bamboi                                     13/01/95
3       22.   Bole - Chache                                         15/01/95
23.   Wa - Sombo                                            16/01/95



I
APPENDIX 8
Page 2 of 2.
24.   Lawura - Han                                            16/01/95
I          25.   Tiam - Wahabu                                           16/01/95
p          26.   Bolga - Bawku                                           18/01/95
27.   Nakpanduri - Sapiegn                                    18/01/95
28.   Navrongo - Naga                                         19/01/95
29.   Tema - Aflao                                            02/02/95
30.   Accra - Yamoransa                                       02/03/95
31.   Domi - Kitase                                           12/14/94



Appendix 7
Detailed EIAS of HSIP Roads



DETAILD EIAs OF HSIC ROADS
VISITED IN THE VOLTA, EASTERN, CENTRAL, WESTERN, ASHANTI, BRONG AHAFO,
UPPER EAST AND WEST AND THE NORTHERN REGIONS
INTRODUCTION
EIAs of specific road corridors earmarked for rehabilitation in HSIC (as of the Bank list of road sections
from November 1994) were undertaken through site visits from 13 December until 20 January 1995.
The key impacts identified on each road corridor visited by the EIA field mission and the proposed
mitigation measures are presented in the following pages. Note that theses accounts record both specific
direct road-related impacts and broader impacts which spread beyond the competence and responsibilities
of GHA. These broader issues require improved intersectoral coordination than is currently practiced.
Recommendations concerning intersectoral coordination are presented in the main body of this report. A
series of photographs follows the narrative accounts. These photographs illustrate some of the points
raised en the road section EIAs and in the main body of this report.
The following road sections were visites, and are described in detail in the following pages.
(i)    Adorni - Ho
(ii)    Adomi - Akosombo
(iii)   Kpong - Trom
(iv)   Kpando - Worawora
(v)   Jasikan - Worawora
(vi)   Hohoe - Jasikan
(vii)   Ketekrachi - Nakpanyili
(viii)  Asesewa - Koforidua
(ix)   Winneba Junction - Swedru
(x)    Swedru-Akim Oda
(xi)   Akim Oda - Kusi-Kade
(xii)   Atabadze Junction - Elmina-Ankaful
(xiii)  Jukwa Rd. Junction - Asebu
(xiv)  Alabokazo - Tikobo No.1
(xv)   Ayanfuri-Diaso-Hujimbre-Sefwi Bekwai
(xvi)  Ajumako - Swedru
(xvii)  Kwabeng - Abomosu
(xviii) Juaso- Obogu
(xix)  Mpraeso - Kwahu Tafo-Adawso
(xx)   Sunyani - Acherensua
(xxi)  Bediako - Nkrankwanta
(xxii) Berekum - Sampa
(xxiii) Techiman - Bamboi
(xxiv) Bole - Chache
(xxv)  Lawra - Han
(xxvi) Wa - Sombo
(xxvii) Tiam - Wahabu
(xxviii) Bolga - Bawku
1



(xxix) Nakpanduri - Sapiegn
(xxx) Navrongo - Naga
(xxxi) Domi- Kitase
(xxxii) Tema - Aflao
(xxxiii) Accra - Yamoransa
It should be noted that the following road corridors were selected for inclusion in the Project after the EIA
field study was completed (i.e. in February 1995). However, the ELA study team has reviewed these new
roads and find that they lie in similar ecological zones as those roads which were visited. Their impacts
are, therefore, considered to be similar in kind to those detailed in the ELA reports of the field team which
follow. The new roads recently added to HSIC, listed according to the ecological zone in which they are
found, include:
(i)    Ajumako - Bobikuma - Swedru (Dry Semi-Deciduous - Inner Zone)
(h)   Anwiaso - Asokwa (Moist Semi-Deciduous - South East Subtype)
(iii) Anwiankwanta - Kumasi (Moist Semi-Deciduous - South East Subtype)
(iv)   Accra - Yamoransa (Coastal Scrub and grassland thickets partly lies within (to the east)
and the Southern Marginal Forest (to the west)).
(v)   Ho - Denu (Partly lies on Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest 'Fire Zone' to the north and
Coastal Scrub and grassland thickets to the south)
(vi)   Trom - Nkurakan (Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest 'Fire Zone')
(vii)  Koforidua - Mamfe (Dry Semi-Deciduous forest - 'Inner Zone')
(viii) Mamfe - Adukrom (Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest - 'Inner Zone')
2



(i) ADOMI TO HO
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road falls within the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest (Fire) Zone.
Economic activities include the cultivation of food crops such as cassava and com but there are also small
holdings of palm and coconut trees. The Juapong Textile Factory is located in the area and offers
employment to the local people. The road appears to have been already rehabilitated.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    The cultivation of the hillsides with food crops especially at Tsito could give rise to increased
runoff and possibly landslides during heavy rains which could threaten portions of the road.
(b)    There is evidence of gully erosion in some of the settlements such as Apeguso and Frankadua.
The area is ecologically fragile, especially during the dry season when the grass becomes tinder
dry; fires easily get out of control. During the field visit vast tracts of grassland showed evidence
of having been burnt through bushfires. The control of vegetation on the road shoulders carried
out through the practice of burning could have spread inland, and with certain wind directions,
could damage the vegetation and threaten the fragile ecosystems of the area.
(c)    The control of vegetation on road corridors through the practice of burning is a countrywide
practice. This may be contributing to pavement failures through the heat generated.
(d)    Stacks of firewood and charcoal were on sale in most settlements on the road corridor. The
firewood was harvested in the zone adjacent to the road and this may be contributing to the
extensive depletion of tree stocks in the area.
(e)    The improved road condition should facilitate the exploitation of firewood and charcoal and hence
the depletion of more forest resources.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Prevention of forest depletion due to the need for fuelwood: encourage agroforestry practices and
the intensification of programmes to introduce fuel efficient stoves.
(b)    Control of vegetation on roadsides: use environmentally benign weedicides or cutting of the
roadside grasses instead of practicing burning such vegetation.
(c)    Control of bushfires: an education and anti bushfires campaigns should be introduced
(d)    Erosion: The control of erosion in the settlements could prolong the life of the roads. The
prohibition of negative activities such as cultivation of the hillsides could reduce runoff and
minimize erosion in the settlements.
3



,It



1.
(i  ADOMI TO AKOSOMBO
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road runs through the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest (Fire) Zone. Some tree species identified were
flamboyant, palm, neem, baobab and mango. The ground cover is mostly grass. The river Volta skirts
some stretches of the road. The road is to be resealed but it appears this has already been done.
Economic activities include fishing and food crop farming although some of the locals are also obtaining
income through employment at the Violta River Authority (VRA) and Ghana Water and Sewage
Corporation (GWSC).
I.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    There is gully erosion in the settlements at Adomi which makes it inefficient to plant crops.
(b)    Buildings are mostly sub-standard and have been constructed with mud. The foundations of some
of the houses have been severely eroded.
(c)    There are no pedestrian crossings in the area and safety hazards are notable.
(d)    Some of the hillsides by the road section near Akosombo have been denuded of vegetation which
increases the threat of increased runoff and erosion.
II.    MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Pedestrian-Vehicular Conflict: This road corridor is heavily used by vehicles travelling to Ho. To
reduce accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements should be provided with rumble
strips and pedestrian crossings.
(b)    Runoff: The control of runoff should be given priority through the introduction of improved
drainage systems which should minimize erosion, particularly at the roadsides near the settlement
areas.
(c)    housing improvement: precautions should be introduced to assist communities with improvements
to the construction of the foundations of their homes to prevent collapse of such structures and
the social disruption this could cause
5



(iii) KPONG TO TROM
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road lies within the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest Zone (Fire Zone). But there are the occasional
clumps of cassava, palm trees, mango, Indian almond, plantain, neem and fields of maize.
Economic activity in the area is centered around fishing (mainly tilapia and "one man thousand") and
shellfish (prawns/shrimps) from the Volta Lake. Clam (adode) stocks were formerly abundant in the lake
but have been severely depleted due to their overharvesting. Local incomes are also derived from work
at GWSC at Kpong, VRA at Akosombo and Akuse, at Juapong Textiles (JTL), and at Akosombo Textiles
(ATL).
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    The northern stretch of the road is surrounded by hills which have been denuded of trees to allow
for agriculture. The planting of food crops on these steep slopes contributes to runoff problems.
In some sections houses are also being built on the slopes. The removal of vegetation on the
slopes and building of houses and resulting runoff leads to both severe erosion as well as to the
possibility of landslides.
(b)    Most settlements on the road corridor are affected by gully erosion and the foundations of some
of the sub-standard houses (mainly mud houses) are being eroded. This was particularly noticable
at Abanse.
(c)    The shoulders of some of the road segments which have not been revegetated or covered with
chippings have been eroded, such as at Somanya.
(d)   To control vegetation on many of the road shoulders in this section, the grass is torched which
is likely to melt the tar from the road, thus increasing the chances of pavement failure.
(e)    At Abanso, Agomanya, and Kponumor the houses are built very close to the road, which is likely
to increase pedestrian-vehicular conflicts.
(f)    On the road section from Somanya to Trom, there are thick stretches of grassland which are
vulnerable to bushfires in the dry season when the grass becomes dangerously dry.
(g)   Lined uncovered drains varying in size from 0.3 to 1 m have been constructed on some segments
of the road to control flood waters. Some of the unlined drains, which are actually ditches, are
overgrown with vegetation which is likely to impede the flow of flood waters.
2.2   Positive Impacts
(a)    The road appears to already have been rehabilitated and now provides an efficient stretch to link
6



the settlements on the corridor with other parts of the eastem region.
IEl.    MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Runoff: The reduction of runoff should be given priority by prohibiting the cropping or building
on the steep hillsides adjacent to the road.
(b)    Erosion of road: There should either be revegetation or the provision of chippings along the road
corridors to prevent the erosion of the road shoulders. Measures should also be ensured to prevent
erosion caused by runoff from the roads where settlements lie close to the road side.
(c)    Pedestrian-Vehicular Conflict: At Kpongunor, Abanse, Agomanya, and Somanya the houses lie
so close to the road corridor that pedestrian-vehicular conflicts may be severe. To reduce accidents
the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements speed limits should be clearly posted and rumble
strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
(d)    Shoulders of roads: The practice of burning of vegetation on the shoulders of roads should be
prohibited as the heat, depending on the wind direction, warps the fabric of the roads. The fires
may even spread inland and destroy productive vegetation.
(e)    Covering of drains: Covers for the drains along the road corridors should be provided. This is
particularly important where the drains lie close to settlements as open, uncovered drains pose
severe safety hazards to pedestrians.
(f)    Housing on Slopes: The construction of houses on the hillsides, such as at Nwaso, and the
cultivation of the
slopes should be prohibited as this increases runoff which causes gully erosion in the settlements,
increases the threat of erosion of the road segments, and can cause landslides in the hilly sections.
7



(iv) KPANDU TO WORAWORA
I.    INTRODUCTION
This is a laterite or gravel road and it is proposed that the road will be regravelled. No realignment is
envisaged. The road runs through the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest (Fire Zone).
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Moving vehicles in this section were noted as generating extreme plumes of dust.
(b)    The road has been eroded in several sections. Gully erosion was noticed on the roads and in most
settlements.
(c)   In some of the settlements, such as Agbenohoe, cemeteries have been developed very close to the
road corridor. There may have to be slight realignments or relocation of these cemeteries where
the road work includes road widening.
(d)    Where the road passes through settlements dust, noise, and vibrations levels may be elevated
during the rehabilitation work period.
Ill.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Realignments: Where cemeteries are to be relocated, consultations should be held with the chiefs
and elders of the settlement as part of the relocation planning process.
(b)    Dust: Road segments which run through settlements should be resurfaced with tar to minimize
dust pollution through the roadside communities.
8



(v)  JASIKAN TO WORAWORA
I.    INTRODUCTION
This laterite gravel road fals within the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest (Fire) Zone. Farming is the main
economic activity in the area.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    There is evidence of guUly erosion at most of the settlements along the road. In general, erosion
is very severe on the corridor.
(b)    On the outskirts of Apesokubi, at a key stream crossing, there is an undersized drain which has
caused flooding of the road and that stretch is barely passable.
(c)    Dust levels are intolerably high in the settlement areas.
(d)    At Kudge-Buem many of the houses are very close to the road corridor.
II.    MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Pollution of water supply source: The only source of water supply for many of the villages is from
the Bonsu River which crosses the road corridor. Dust on the road may be polluting this supply.
Alternate sources such as boreholes, hand dugweUs, or rain harvesting should be promoted in the
area.
(b)    Erosion Control: The drainage system on this road corridor should be improved as erosion is a
serious threat in the entire area.
(c)    Obstacles: In some areas, large trees are too close to the road segments; these should be removed.
(d)    Dust: Where the road corridor runs through a settlement, those short segments should be tarred
to reduce dust levels within the communities.
(e)    Drainage: The undersized drain at Apesokubi, and elsewhere, should be enlarged.
(f)    There is the need for guard rails on the section of the road which runs through the scarp on the
way to Asukawkaw.
(g)    Pedestrian-Vehicular Conflict: To reduce accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements
speed limits should be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
9



(vi)         HOHOE - JASIKAN
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road corridor was visited on 22nd December, 1994. Although the work schedule lists the road as
a gravel road, the road has already been tarred. But it needs rehabilitation in some sections where
pavement failures are quite prominent. The road runs through the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest (Fire Zone).
The hill and slopes are heavily wooded but these are being gradually denuded by the harvesting of
fuelwood.
Agriculture is mainly centered on the growing of food crops such as maize and cassava.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Grass on the edges of the roads have been bumt but overall no negative impacts are noticeable.
(b)   The improved road condition may speed up the transportation of fuelwood to other centres.
2.2   Positive Impacts
(a)    The road provides a link with settlements in the corridor thus increasing social mobility.
(b)    Dust levels in settlements on the corridor have been significantly reduced.
Ill.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Protection of Vegetation: Promotion of the use of liquid petroleum gas (LPG) or fuelwood
efficient stoves should be instituted to reduce fuelwood extraction on the corridor or introduce
more efficient fuel wood stoves.
(b)    Burning of Vegetation: Stop the burning of vegetation on the shoulders of the road as the fires
may spread inland thereby destroying vegetation.
10



1.i
(vii KETEKRACHI TO NAKPANYELI
I.    INTRODUCTION
Like all the road corridors in the Eastern sector, this area is highly prone to bushfires. The road lies
within the Interior Wooded Savanna (Northern Savanna) and is to be regravelled. The road runs through
a major yam producing area.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Dust levels are extremely high in the settlements and especially at Ketekrachi.
(b)    There is evidence of serious gully erosion especially at Ketekrachi and Nakpanyili.
(c)    The road runs through an area which is subject to intense bushfires.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Dust: The section of the road in Ketekrachi should be tarred and not re-gravelled as proposed.
This should reduce dust levels in this sizeable town. As for Ketekrachi, at least segments of the
road directly abutting on the settlement frontings, should be tarred to reduce the dust levels in
these communities.
(b)   Drainage: The drainage system, particularly in Ketekrachi, should be improved by building more
ditches, covered drains, and lined pits along the roadside.
(c)    Vegetation: The use of LPG or fuel efficient wood stoves should be promoted on the road corridor
to reduce fuel wood extraction.
(d)   Bushfires: The promotion of bushfire prevention squads, fire belts, and education directed at
providing anti- bushfire information should be instituted.
11



(i   ASESEWA TO KOFORIDUA
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road corridor has been already tarred. The road runs through the Dry Semi-Deciduous (Inner Zone)
and the vegetation is mainly grassland with clumps of citrus, cassava, mango baobab. Firewood is sold
extensively in the corridor.
A portion of the road on a steep slope (i.e., scarp) near Akatawia has been overlaid with concrete. A
major stream in the area which crosses the road corridor is River Pompam.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    There are several small quarries in the area which are still being actively used. These quarries,
when depleted, can become filled with stagnent water and increase habitats for disease carrying
insects.
(b)    There is pronounced evidence of erosion in many of the settlements.
(c)    The steep slopes of the scarp have been cultivated with maize.
(e)    At Otekpolu village, houses are too close to the road corridor which will promote pedestrian
vehicular conflict.
2.2   Positive Impact
(a)    The road provides a fast link for the smaller settlements with Koforidua.
(b)    The road is a good link with Boti falls, a tourist attraction at Sikesua.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Runoff: The cultivation of the hillsides should be closely managed to minimize runoff.
(b)    Rockfalls: Quarrying on the hillside at Borakan should be stopped to prevent rockfalls.
(c)    Quarrying: There should be regulatory controls to ensure that the quarries are rehabilitated when
they become exhausted to prevent the build-up of stagnent water and related habitat formation for
mosiquitos and other water born disease carrying vectors.
(d)    Pedestrian-Vehicular Conflict: To reduce accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements
speed limits should be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
(f)    Fuelwood: The use of efficient wood stoves should be expanded to minimize the need to extract
fuelwood.
12



(ix)        EWINNEBA - SWEDRU
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road corridor is to be resurfaced. The topography is mainly flat. The original vegetation which is
the Dry Semi-Deciduous (Inner Zone) type has been substantially degraded turning the area into a vast
tract of scrub-grassland on both sides of the road. The few remaining tree species are mainly baobab,
neem, cassia and coconut.
The road corridor crosses streams at Pomadze, Abonyi and River Akora on the outskirts of Swedru town.
There is complete pavement failure on the whole stretch of the road corridor.
Most of the communities are engaged in small scale farming and their incomes are supplemented by the
sale of firewood.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Most of the settlements along the road corridor suffer serious erosion problems. The shoulders
of the road, especially in and around the settlements have been, seriously eroded. Gully erosion
was noticed at Nyankuade, Awomberew, Osamkkrom, Brofoyedru, Tukwa, Wawase and
Ekwankrom.
(b)    Some villages such as Pomadze, Nyankuade, Abonyi are sited very close to the road corridor and
this may pose problems from noise, dust and vibrations during the construction period. Vibration
is of particular concern as most of the buildings are constructed with mud and, although they have
occasionally been reinforced with wood, the vibrations may cause further weakening.
(c)    The foundations of many of the mud houses have been eroded.
(d)    The area is potentially prone to bushfires.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a) Erosion: As erosion is a serious problem on the corridor drainage especially near the settlements
should be improved to protect the road. The increased amount of pavement surfaces found in the
settlements contributes to runoff during storms which cause serious deterioration of road surfaces. Erosion
control measures instituted in the settlements may also prolong the life span of road segments near the
settlements.
13



(b)    Bridge congestion: The road and bridge at Abonyi may have to be widened to allow for easier
flow of traffic.
(c)    Traffic Signs: Traffic signs to control speed limits should be erected at Pomadze, Nyankuade to
reduce accidents as these settlements are too close to the road. There may be the need to
construct rumble strips and pedestrian crossings in some of these settlements.
(d)    Income: Unskilled labour should be recruited as much as possible from the settlements during the
rehabilitation to enable the inhabitants to supplement their meagre incomes derived from farming.
(e)    Revegetation: Tree planting along the road corridor should form an important aspect of the
rehabilitation work.
(f)    Bushfires: Education on the hazards of bushfires and anti bushfire campaigns should be instituted.
(g)    The poor state of the road has increased travel time between the settlements and has added to
maintenance and repair costs of vehicles. The road resurfacing work should reduce these impacts.
14



(x)    SWEDRU  - AKIM ODA
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road is to be resurfaced. The road runs through the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest (Inner Zone). Parts
of the road corridor run through Esem Epam Forest Reserve but since the road corridor needs no
realignment the Reserve will not be affected. The road shoulders have not been as seriously eroded as
on the Winneba to Swedru stretch but short portions have been severely affected. The area is better
wooded than from Winneba to Swedru and some of the original forest species are still standing.
Fuelwood is sold extensively along the corridor which is accelerating the depletion of tree stocks. The
area is also a timber producing area which may also contribute to the problem of rapid deforestation.
Cocoa and palm are also produced. Bushfire in the area is minimal.
11.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Serious gully erosion was noticed at Mensah Krom, Nsaba, Eshiam, Bantama, Akroso, Asuboa
which causes long-term depletion of topsoil.
(b)    There is a small scale sandstone quarrying at Asuboa which can become a site where water
collects, increasing mosquito habitats and the possible incidence of malaria.
(c)    At Akim Aboabo the road shoulders have been seriously eroded.
2.2   Positive Impacts
(a)    When the road is rehabilitated it should provide a fast link between the settlements along the road
section and Oda thus increasing social mobilization.
III.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Drainage: Road segments which run through settlements should be protected with improved
drainage.
(b)    Road resurface planning should take account the fact that the road is frequently used by timber
trucks which require that the road pavement be able to cater to heavy axle loads.
(c)    There is the need to construct crash barriers at Akim Manso where there is a deep gorge.
(d)    Sand and stone quarrying at Asuboa should be controlled and better management of the quarry
site should be instituted.
15



(e)    Dust: At Asuboa and Asene where houses are very close to the road corridor dust pollution should
be controlled by sprinkling the road with water during the construction phase.
(f)    Water Supply: Where the road crosses rivers/streams, such as at Akroso and at Oda, sediment
loads of the surface waters are likely to increase during the construction phase. Although the
settlements do not use these waters for drinking (as they depend on hand dug wells (Akroso) or
pipe borne supplies) increased sediment loads in rivers and streams should be minimized to protect
aquatic organisms.
(g)    Pedestrian-Vehicular Conflict: To reduce accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements
speed limits should be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
(h)    Drains in and around the larger settlements should be covered.
16



(i) AKIM ODA - KUSI - KADE
I.    INTRODUCTION
Two road corridors are sited in the HSIC between these settlements. The first is a surface dressed road
passing through Osenasi and the second a gravel road through Kusi. The area lies within the Moist Semi-
Deciduous Forest (South East subtype).
A.  TARRED ROAD
The tarred road is frequently used by timber trucks. Firewood is sold by the road corridor. The road
pavement has failed from Oda to Osinasi but the section from Osenasi to Kusi is very motorable.
The road crosses River Birim on the outskirts of Kade. Fuelwood is sold by the roadside but some of
these could be cuttings from the sawmills in the area.
I.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Most of the unlined drains are overgrown with weeds which prevents water being able to enter
and flow along them. Accumulation of standing water in these drains presents a health hazard.
(b)    At Atiankama to Nkwanta buildings are very close to the road corridor which may create
pedestrian-vehicular conflicts
(c)    Drainage at Doadua is only semi-completed.
(d)    The bridge at Boadu is too narrow for the level of traffic which normally passes and delays are
common.
(e)    There is serious erosion at Atiankama-Nkwanta. Drainage in these settlements is quite inadequate.
(f)    At Anomaa Kudjo the shoulders of the road have been severely eroded which effectively causes
narrowing of the road in the area.
(g)    The poor condition of sections of the road corridor increase travel time between the settlements.
III.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Drainage: The construction of drains at Boadua should be completed. Adequate drainage for road
segments which run very close to the fronting of settlements should be provided as these sections
are most noticeably eroded. Drains in the settlements should be covered. The control of erosion
in all the settlements should also lead to the protection of the road corridor from erosion.
17



(b)    Axle loads: As the road is frequently used by timber trucks, the design of the road rehabilitation
should take account of the fact that heavy weight loads are imposed by such trucks. Insufficient
thickness of pavement to cater to axle load levels will lead to rapid deterioration of the road
surface after it is rehabilitated.
(c)    Pedestrian-Vehicular Conflict: To reduce accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements
speed limits should be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
(d)    The unlined drains (i.e., ditches) should be cleared of vegetation to promote easier flow of runoff
during storms.
B.    KADE TO ODA
1.    INTRODUCTION
This is a gravel road which is to be rehabilitated. The road passes through Kusi which is a major palm-oil
producing area. The road falls within the Moist Semi-Deciduous Forest (South East Subtype).
HL.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Dust pollution is a major environmental problem on this segment.
(b)    At the section where the road crosses the Kedewa River, crossing is provided by very unstable
wooden planks.
(c)    At Suabe, trees have fallen across the road. On other segments of the road tree stocks are too
close to the road corridor.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Dust: Segments of the road which run through settlements such as at Takrowase should be
resurfaced with tar to reduce dust pollution in the settlements.
(b)    Crossings: Replace the wooden planks at the crossing on the Sume River with a box culvert or
another more permanent structure.
(c)    Vegetation: Trees which are too close to the road corridor should be cut down.
(d)    Weeds: The sides of the road are overgrown with weeds which narrow the road in some sections.
The weeds should be cleared.
18



i,
(xii) ATABADZE Jn-ELMINA-ANKAFUL (xiii) JUKWA RD Jn-ASEBU
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road passes through a major coconut producing area. The vegetation is of the Dry Semi-Deciduous
(Inner Zone ) type. The tarred road from Atabadze ends at Ankuada. From Ankuada towards Elmina the
road connection is by a bush track which passes by a small lagoon (Baka lagoon). The tract joins a
laterite road to Mbofraba Akyinim, Bantamna and ends at Elmina.
Fishing and salt production are prominent economic activities in the area. An ecologically sensitive area
is the Brenya Lagoon at Elmina.
A.    ATABADZE Jn - ELMINA
II.    KEY IMPACTS
(a)    The verges of the road section at Atabadze have been completely eroded, narrowing the road
through the village.
(b)    Houses at Atabadze and Bantama are so close to the road segment that there is likely to be
frequent pedestrian-vehicular conflicts, especially when the road is reconstructed.
(c)    There is severe erosion at Atabadze.
(d)    The hillsides in the area have been excavated for road construction without reseeding the exposed
surfaces.
(e)    From Ankuada to Mbofraba a new road connection will have to be constructed and the new road
allignment can disrupt existing pedestrian passage ways.
(f)    On the section of the road which passes through Elmina no drains have been provided.
IL    MITIGATION
(a)    Erosions: The excavated hillsides should be revegetated to reduce runoff.
(b)    Drainage: At Atabadze and Elnina the road needs to be protected by improved drainage; these
drains should be covered.
(c)    New Road Segment: From Ankuada to Mbofraba a new road is desirable.
(d)    Dust/Noise: There is the need for dust and noise control measures, especially at Elmina, during
the reconstruction work phase.
(e)    Pedestrian-Vehicular Conflict: To reduce accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements
speed limits should be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
19



B.  ANKAFUL TO JUKWA
I.    INTRODUCTION
The road passes through a tree lined avenue of Cassia. Both sides of the road are bordered by coastal
savanna and swampy area which appears to be flood prone. The vegetation is the Dry Semi-Deciduous
(Inner Zone) type.
Cassava, coconut and plantain are widely cultivated. Drains on both sides of the road corridor are unlined.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
(a)    There is evidence of gully erosion at Ankaful.
(b)    At Enkotro, a one lane bailey bridge has been provided for the river crossing which impedes
traffic flow. The road crosses the Sumi River by means of a bridge of inadequate width.
III.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Erosion control measures should be provided at Ankaful.
(b)    Surrounding hillsides which have been excavated for road construction should be rehabilitated.
(c)    A two lane bridge is desirable at the crossing at Enkotro.
20



C.    JUKWA TO ASEBU
I.    INTRODUCTION
(a)    The road segment is to be re-surfaced. The vegetation is of the Dry Semi-Deciduous (Inner Zone)
type. The road passes through a wooded area and crosses the Kakum river where the Brimsu
Water Works is sited. There is an Eco-Tourist Reserve at Kakarn but the road corridor will not
impact it.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
(a)   In most settlements on the road corridor serious gully erosion is evident, especially on the hilly
areas. Rutting and corrugations of the gravel sections are prominent.
(b)    At Apewusika there may be the need to widen the road section and some structures may have to
be demolished.
(c)    On the gravel sections of the road, dust pollution from passing vehicles is a major problem.
(d)    Sections of the road which have been tarred have serious pavement failures and the shoulders
suffer from severe edge damage.
(e)    Towards Apewusika the topography becomes undulating with hills and deep gullies which
promotes erosion.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Erosion: Road segments near the settlements especially in the hilly areas need to be protected from
erosion by adequate drainage systems.
(b)    Dust: Dust control measures need to be instituted in the vicinity of the Birimsu Water Works.
Tarring of those sections of the road in sensitive areas should be carried out to minimize the
accumulation of dust and sediments in the potable water source adjacent to the road.
(c)    There is the need for guardrails on the hilly stretches of the road such as at Apewusika.
21



(xiv) ALABOKAZO TO TIKOBO No. 1
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road is mostly surrounded by a coastal environment and lies within the mangrove zone of the
southwestem extremities of Ghana. The road is mostly laterite and dust pollution is a major problem in
the settlements. The area is a major coconut producing area.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
(a)    The road corridor is approximately 100 -150 m from the sea, but there is no evidence of sea
erosion posing a problem because of thick ground cover of coconut trees and grass. However, at
Elloin village the road is less than 100 m from the sea and there is no ground cover of vegetation.
Although the residents claim the sea does not invade the road there is the need to consider
realignment of the road away from the coast to prevent future sea erosion. There may be no need
to demolish any structures.
(b)    Although erosion in the settlement is not widely evident, gully erosion was noticed at Ehoaka.
(c)    At Wuruwuru and the Tano River at Ellion, there are one lane bailey bridges which are too
narrow to allow unrestricted passage of the normal flow of traffic.
m.   MITIGATION
(a)    Road sections near the settlements should be tarred to reduce dust pollution in the settlements.
(b)    At Benyin, from Ehoaka to Elowule, and at Tikobo No. 1 provision for drainage is necessary to
protect the road from erosion.
(c)    There is likely to be noise and dust pollution during the construction phase in the settlements of
Ekwe, Christian, Ngalechin, Bekum, Anlkye and Atuabo amongst others and control measures
should be instituted during this phase of the road work.
(d)    Two lane bridges are desirable on the river crossing to minimize vehicle-vehicle conflict.
22



(xv)   AYAMFURI TO SEFWI BEKWAI THROUGH DIASO AND HUMJEBRE
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road corridor runs through the Moist Evergreen Forest Zone with much bamboo and coconut trees.
Timber is produced in the area. There are rail crossings on the road corridor at Dominase and Diaso.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
(a)    Foundations of buildings have been eroded at most settlements such as at Dominase, Abura,
Trepeso Denkyira Obuasi, and Amesa Nkwanta. Gully erosion in the settlement is a serious
problem as it erodes away topsoil at a rapid rate.
(b)    Some of the road segments have serious ruttings and corrugations making them very difficult to
traverse.
(c)    Dust levels in the settlements become intolerably high with the passing of vehicles.
(d)   In areas where gravel has been stockpiled in the past for road construction purposes, the ground
is denuded of vegetation.
(e)    There is sand and gravel winning at Dorminase.
in.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Erosion: Control of erosion on road segments should be accomplished by improving drainage
systems which lie in and around the roadside settlements. Covers for new drains should be
systematically installed for safety purposes.
(b)    Dust: Dust levels in the settlements could be reduced by tarring road sections running through
them.
(c)    Crash barriers: Where there are deep gullies in the road segments, crash barriers should be
provided.
(d)    Reseeding: Areas should be reseeded where gravel was piled up for construction to reduce runoff
and erosion.
(e)    Rail crossings: Provide adequate warning signs at the rail crossings.
(f)    Culvert: At Denkyira Obuasi there is no culvert on the road and an adjacent stream has flooded
the road and eroded it. There is the need for the appropriate culvert in the area.
(g)    Sandwinning: Sand winning should be controlled at Dominase and measures should be instituted
for the rehabilitation of the area for the future time when the sand is exhausted.
23



(h)    Axle load: The rehabilitation should take into consideration the axle load requirement of
trucks which rely on the road section as part of their route to reach market outlets.
(i)    Where the road crosses rivers such as the Dua River and the Ankobra River care should bx
not to increase the sediment loads of these surface waters during the construction period.
(j)    Drainage: At Hujimbre, Agona, Jamen Nkwanta, Gyanany, and Dominase improved di
systems are required to protect the road corridors from storm water runoff.
24



(xvi) AJUMAKO TO SWEDRU
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road corridor falls within the Dry Semi-Deciduous (Inner Zone) type of ecosystem.
Farming is the main activity within the corridor. Cassava, palm, coconut and sugarcane are the main
produce.
The road has received surface dressing up to about 3km from Ajumako.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
(a)    Crossing for pedestrians are few on the ground especially where the road crosses settlements.
(b)   In some areas the edges of the road have been severely damaged and serious shoulder drops have
occurred. e.g. at Osedzie, Ochiso, Haso Wodzie, Bobikuma and Besiadze.
(c)    The road crosses the Ochi River at the settlement of Ochiso. This could increase sediment loads
in the river which could make the water nonpotable.
(d)    Road sections at Bobikuma, Ofaso and Aframsi are too narrow and houses are sited too close to
the roads' edge. In one particular area at Ofaso the frontage of one house is virtually on the road.
Im.   MITIGATION
(a)    Traffic Control: To reduce accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements speed limits
should be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
(b)    Drainage: In areas where the road edges have been eroded and there are shoulder drops adequate
drainage should be provided. Drains in the settlements should be covered.
(c)    Widening: At Bobikuma where the road needs widening no structures will have to be demolished.
But at Ofaso and Aframsi a few structures will have to be demolished to prevent accidents.
25



(xvi) KWABENG - ABOMOSU
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road is mainly gravel and lies within the Moist-Semi-Deciduous Forest (South East subtype) Zone.
This is an agricultural area and the major food crops grown are okro, cassava, maize and plantain. Cocoa
is also a major cash crop.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    At Kwabeng and Asamama some of the houses are too close to the road segment and they may
have to be demolished.
(b)    The road has many ditches and very short stretches of lined drains such as for example at
Akrofufo and Abomosu.
(c)    At Kobosu there is a one lane bridge which may cause vehicle-vehicle conflict.
(d)    At Asainama the road crosses a small stream which the locals use as a source of water supply.
(e)   In most of the settlements extreme dust levels are elevated as vehicles pass.
(f)    There is evidence of erosion in some of the settlements such as at Asamama. At Abomosu the
paved road in that has failed and erosion is evident in the settlement.
III.   MITIGATION
(a)    Dust: The dust problems in the settlements could be mitigated by tarring the small segments of
roads which run through them.
(b)    Water Supplies: Alternate water supplies such as boreholes and dug wells should be provided for
settlements where dust from the road segments pollute the sources of water supply.
(c)    Erosion Control: Ditches should be constructed along the road segments for erosion prevention.
They should be maintained by ongoing clearing of vegetation.
(d)    Pedestrian-Vehicular Conflict: To reduce accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements
speed limits should be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
26



(xiu  JUASO-OBOGU
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road falls within the Moist Semi-Deciduous Forest (South East subtype) Zone. It is a gravel road
and it has been proposed for resurfacing.
It is an agricultural area producing such food crops as maize and cassava.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Dust levels are unacceptably high as vehicles pass.
(b)    Erosion affects most of the settlements.
III.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Dust: The tarring of the segment of the road running through the settlements will mitigate the dust
problem.
(b)    Drainage: Ditches should be provided along the road corridor to control runoff.
27



(xix) MPRAESO - KWAHU TAFO - ADAWSO
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road falls partly within the Moist Semi-Deciduous (South East Subtype) Zone. But on the approaches
to Adawso the vegetation has been severely degraded.
In addition to charcoal production, fuelwood is also sold in the corridor. Cattle rearing and fishing are
a major economic activity also.
The area is ecologically fragile and the whole landscape, including the slopes of hills skirting the road,
has been severely scarred by bushfires. At the time of the field visit trees and shrubs were smouldering
from the devastating fires. It is not known whether the fires are spontaneous or not but it seems charcoal
producers in the area may be contributing to the bushfires.
This is an important road corridor as it is a major outlet from the Afram Plains to the Eastern Plains. The
crossing of the Volta Lake is by a pontoon. Heavy cargo trucks laden with foodstuffs cross from Ekyi
Amanfro in the Plains to Adawso. The Afram Plains is a potentially important grain producing area. The
segment of the road on the approaches to Adawso is a tract in several areas with boulders which slow
down traffic considerably. Foodstuffs are known to perish in the Plains due to the very poor condition
of the road and especially when the pontoon breaks down. The road is to a large extent laterite/gravel
but it has been earmarked for resurfacing.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Dust levels are intolerably high at Bepong Nyenkene, Tafo and Adawso as vehicles pass.
(b)    There are small-scale quarries on sections of the road.
(c)    The burning of vegetation on the slopes of the hills could increase runoff on the road.
(d)    On the approaches to Adawso the Volta Lake could have its sediment load increased by runoff
from the road segment.
(e)    Between Adawso and Tafo there is a shrine very close to the roadside which has been dedicated
to the mountains. The fetish priestess lives at Tafo Kwahu.
Im.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Economic: The road is an important link between the Afram Plains and the Eastern Region. As
the only market outlet, the entire road corridor from Tafo and Adawso should be tarred to
facilitate the evacuation of foodstuffs and to help reduce travelling time. Tarring could also
reduce maintenance costs and minimise the sediment load transported to the Volta Lake.
28



(b)    The ecological damage caused by bushfires is so massive that a special attempt should be made
to arrest the situation. This could also help mitigate the present situation of extreme runoff from
the slopes of the hills to the road segment due to the denuded vegetation.
(c)    The Samboo shrine should be relocated after consultation with the fetish priestess and elders at
Tafo.
29



(xx) SUNYANI - ACHERENSUA
I.    INTRODUCTION
This laterite road runs through the Dry Moist Semi-Deciduous (northwest subtype) forest zone and the
South-East subtype. There are no signs of bushfires in the area.
Timber and cocoa production are major economic activities. Mim Timber Company is located in the area.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    The ditches on the road corridor are overgrown with weeds
(b)    Some segments of the road are very steep and frequently loaded timber trucks stall in these
sections.
(c)    There is gully erosion on the steeper sections of the road and some areas are aAtected by
corrugations.
(d)    Elevated dust levels affect the settlements of Antwikrom, Atuahenekrom, and Atronie.
(e)    The road crosses the River Amama at Atronie. The bridge crossing contains a one-lane Bailey
Bridge which appears weak. Vehicle-vehicle conflict occurs frequently.
(f)    River Amama is a source of drinking water for the people of Atronie and is probably being
contaminated by dust from the road segment. River Tano is also used for drinking purposes and
may also be polluted.
(g)    There is serious gully erosion at the Atronie settlement
(h)    Some of the road segments are too narrow, as the case in the road from Ntotroso to Acherensua.
(i)    The Asukese Forest Reserve is on the road corridor but as no realignments are envisaged, the
reserve would not be impacted upon.
(j)    At Wamahinso the road segment has been surface dressed but there are several potholes.
(k)    At Wamahinso and Nototroso some housing units are too close to the road segment.
30



Im.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Runoff: Ditches on the road corridor should be cleared of vegetation to minimise the impact of
runoff.
(b)    Slopes: The gradient of the steep scarps should be reduced to facilitate the movement of timber
trucks.
(c)    Erosion: Gully erosion on the slopes should be minimnised by soil stabilisation or improved
drainage.
(d)    Dust: High dust levels in the settlements should be mitigated by tarring segments of the roads
which run through settlements.
(e)    Bridge congestion: Repair and widening of the bridge on the approaches to Atronie would be
desirable.
(f)    Safe Water Supplies: Provide alternate potable water supplies such as (boreholes and hand dug
wells) for the communities on the road corridor.
(g)    Road widening: Where the road is narrow, it should be widened to minimise vehicle-vehicle
conflict.
(h)    Safety Hazards: In areas where housing is too close to the road, speed limits should be enforced.
Road signs should be erected and rumble strips and pedestrians crossings constructed.
31



(x3n) BEDIAKO-NKRANKWANTA
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road is to be regravelled and lies within the Moist Semi-Deciduous (north-West Subtype) Zone. and
Cocoa is the major cash crop grown in the area.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    At Dominase themr is a garbage heap which is gradually encroaching on the road.
(b)    At Dominase a market has been sited too close to the road.
(c)    At Domunase, Sekyekrom and Kwekuanya gully erosion and elevated dust levels affect the
settlements. Other settlements affected by elevated dust are the villages of Kwaa Dromo Krom,
Asanteman Council as at Kasapin, Asanteman Council.
(d)    On most of this road corridor stream crossings have very weak planks which pose a threat to
safety.
(e)    From Kwekwu Nyankrom towards Nkrankwanta the road is mostly a bush tract.
(f)    There is sandwinning on the approaches to Nkrankwanta.
(g)    Nkrankwanta has been affected by erosion. The road segment has no drains.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Refuse: Remove the garbage heap and market at Dominase to a more appropriate place.
(b)    Dust: Reduce the dust levels in the settlements by taning the road segments in the area.
(c)    Erosion: Erosion control measures should be instituted in the affected settlements.
(d)    Weak bridges: Temporary bridges at stream crossings on the road corridor should be replaced with
permanent structures.
(e)   Improve the segment of road from Kwekwu Nyankrom to Nkrankwanta.
32



(xni BEREKUM TO SAMPA
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road which is to be re-surfaced falls within the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest (Fire Zone). Segments
of the road have been surface dressed but most sections are gravel. Contractors are busily surveying the
road for surface dressing.
Farming is the main economic activity but timber is also extracted to some extent within the corridor.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    At Berekum there are serious shoulder erosions and shoulder drops.
(b)    There are few drains or ditches on the corridor.
(c)    At Jamdede some houses are too close to the road.
(d)    There is widespread evidence of erosion especially at Jamdede, Domfete, Babianiha and Faaman.
At Jamdede house foundations have been seriously eroded.
(e)    On the gravel portions of the road there are serious corrugations.
(f)    Dust is a major problem on the untarred road sections such as at Domfete, Fetentaa, Botomkrom,
Babianiha and Banafo.
(g)    Firewood is sold by the road corridor.
(h)    From Dwenem northwards to Sampa there is evidence of extensive bushfires which have
extensively scorched the vegetation.
(i)    Around Mpuasu the road is mainly hardpan (i.e., without a road surface) which limits the speed
of vehicles. Other sections where the road has been turned into hardpan, such as at Morle, short
retaining walls have been built, probably for erosion control.
(j)    At Faaman there is a small shrine within the road corridor.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Drainage: Where there are serious shoulder erosions or drops the road segments should be
provided with lined drains or revegetated.
(b)    Runoff: Ditches should be constructed on the road corridor for flood water control.
33



i.
(c)    Relocation of houses/Traffic Control: Where houses are too close to the road segment it may be
desirable to relocate the houses. Options other than relocation include imposing speed limits and
installing pedestrian crossings and rumble strips.
(d)    Erosion control measures should be instituted in the settlements.
(e)    Dust: Dust problems in the settlements affected will be mitigated with the resurfacing of the road.
(f)    Firewood Harvesting: Firewood harvesting should be controlled. This should go hand in hand
with the promotion of the use of LPG and fuel efficient wood stoves.
(g)    Bushfires: Bushfire control measures such as the introduction of fire belts, fire emergency squads,
and educational activities should be promoted.
(h)    Shrine: The shrine at Faaman should be relocated outside the road segment after consultation with
the Shrine's fetish priest.
34



(ii TECHNIMAN TO BAMBOI
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road corridor is to be resurfaced and falls within the Dry Semi-Deciduous Forest (Fire Zone). The
road is an important link with the north-eastern parts of the country. The main economic activity is
fuelwood and charcoal production. Trucks loaded with timber also ply the road. In the Wenchi area
tomatoes are produced and a sawmill is also located at Wenchi.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    The Pioneer Tobacco Company (PTC) is sponsoring afforestation projects on the road corridor
with teak. but in most areas saplings and mature trees have been seriously scorched. The fires
may also be endangering VRA installations (high/low tension poles) along the corridor. The
bushfires have affected the entire area from Techinman to Bamboi.
(b)    At New Longoro there is a pond and marshy area which is said to be extensively flooded during
the rains. The pond water is used by the households in the area.
(c)    Charcoal is sold along the corridor.
(d)    The road crosses the Black Volta River at Bamboi and the Subin River at Subinso and increased
sediment and particulate matter can accumulate from the road work and increased road traffic.
(e)    Where the road is untarred dust is a major problem.
(f)    There are shoulder drops on some segments of the road.
(g)    At settlements like Asuano, Nkonsia and around Droboso there is serious gully erosion. The gully
erosion at Nkonsia may be undermining the road.
Im.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Bushfires: The bushfires are slowing down the pace of reforestation and also affecting electricity
installations and possibly increasing runoff to the road corridor. Serious anti-bushfire campaigns
should be mounted.
(b)    Charcoal: The selling of charcoal/fuelwood should be limited along the road corridor. This should
slow down the rate of fuelwood harvesting.
(c)    Gullies: Deep gullies along lengths of the road should be in-filled.
(d)    Dust: The road segment in Bamboi should be tarred to reduce dust levels.
35



(xxiv) BOLE TO CHACHE
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road falls within the Interior Wooded Savanna (northem Savanna) and is to be regravelled. There
are very few settlements on the corridor. The road normally provides a link with Cote d'Ivoire through
a crossing over the Black Volta at Chache via a pontoon. However, the pontoon is not operational. Very
few vehicles use the road corridor. Yam is extensively produced in the area.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Dust levels are high at Bandari and other settlements.
(b)    There is an uncovered hand-dug well at Bandari very close to the road segment which may be
polluted with dust from the road.
(c)    Drains at Bole, a sizeable town, are broken down.
(d)    The road crosses several ephemeral streams.
(e)    At Baale there is a borehole with a hand pump.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    The dust levels in the settlements can be mitigated by tarring those road segments
(b)    The handug well at Bandari should be covered. The field team proposed help to the owners of
the well who agreed to provide a cover.
(c)    The drains at Bole should be repaired.
36



(xxv) LAWRA - HAN
I.    INTRODUCTION
The road is to be regravelled and falls within the Interior Wooded Savanna (Northem Savanna). The road
is lined with trees in several segments such as at Han and Yerimor. Yam growing is an important
economic activity.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    There are corrugations on some of the road segments.
(b)    A spring at Zambo which is used by the locals for drinking purposes is being polluted by dust
from the road.
(c)    Avenues of trees on many segments of the road have narrowed the road which could produce
vehicle-vehicle conflict.
(d)    Dust levels are high in the settlements such as at Yaatori.
(e)    Wooden slabs on many of the culverts are showing signs of decay.
m.    MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Water Supplies: Altemate potable water supplies such as boreholes and hand dug wells should be
provided for areas using polluted sources.
(b)    Dual carriages: A dual road carriage should be provided for the short segments where avenues of
trees have narrowed the road.
(c)    Dust: The road segments which generate high dust levels in the settlements shoul be tarred.
(d)    Culverts which are made of wooden slabs should be replaced with more permanent structures.
37



(xxvi) WA - SOMBO
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road passes through the Interior Wooded Savanna (Northern Savanna) Zone and is to be resurfaced.
Yain is extensively grown in the area. Charcoal is also produced.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    The area is severely prone to bushfires and vast tracts of vegetation have been burnt within the
road corridor.
(b)   Dust levels are high at Kaleo as vehicles pass through.
(c)    Water supplies in the area is by boreholes with hand pumps but ponds are also used such as at
Kaleo and Sombo.
(d)    On some segments of the road such as at Sombo borrow pits have not been rehabilitated although
some of these are being invaded by wild grass.
EIa.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Reforestation is being hampered by bushfires and charcoal production. Formal and informal
environmental education and anti-bushfires campaigns should be mounted for mitigation.
(b)    As fuelwood and charcoal are sold within the road corridor there is the need to limit their sale.
Introduction of fuel efficient charcoal and wood stoves will help to arrest the depletion of tree
stocks.
(c)    Boreholes or handug wells should be provided to prevent the use of polluted ponds for drinking
purposes. Failing this, filtering of water before drinking should be introduced.
38



(xxvii) FIAN - WAHABU
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road runs through the Interior Wooded Savanna (Northern Savanna) and is to be regravelled.
Charcoal, Tomatoes and yam are major products.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    The Gbele Game Production Reserve (547sq lum) is located in the area. During the field visit
monkeys were seen crossing the road about 3 km from Wahabu. The road provides easier access
to the area. As a result game may be disturbed. No realignment of the road is envisaged and so
the Reserve should not be affected.
(b)   Bushfires are widespread within the corridor.
(c)    There is sand excavation at Issa.
2.2   Positive Impacts
(a)    At present there is sparse traffic on the corridor probably because of the poor state of the road.
(b)   The rehabilitation of the road could make it possible for more tourists to visit the Reserve. This
could generate more income for the locals.
(c)    Farm products such as yam and tomatoes can be more easily marketed.
IEl.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Anti-bushfires campaigns should be mounted in the area on the hazards to ecosystems and
campaigns could include education and the formation of fire fighting squads.
(b)    Sandwinning near the road corridor should be controlled to include rehabilitation. Otherwise the
pits could fill with water during the rains thus providing favourable habitats for mosquitoes and
other disease vectors.
(c)    Warning signs advertising the Game Reserve should be erected to create awareness and prevent
disturbance of protected game in the Reserve.
39



(xxviii)     BOLGATANGA - BAWKU
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road falls with the Interior Wooded Savanna (Northern Savanna) and is to be rehabilitated.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
21.   Negative Impacts
(a)    The road crosses the River Kulpawn by a bailey bridge. There are extensive flood plains around
the footings of the bridge.
(b)    Surface dressed segments of the road have eroded shoulders or shoulder drops.
(c)    The tarred segments have severe potholes in several sections.
(d)    Borrow pits located in the area have not been rehabilitated.
(e)    There is serious gully erosion near the road shoulders at More.
(f)    Hills along the corridor have been denuded of vegetation which may increase runoff on to the
road segment.
(g)    There is a small-scale stone quarry in the area.
(h)    On high grounds, denuded of vegetation, stone ridges have been erected where cultivation of food
crops is carried out. The ridges probably reduce runoff and increase infiltration of water.
(i)    There are extensive bushfires within the corridor.
(j)    Reforestation with Teak and Neem is being conducted in several areas along the corridor (e.g.
Kango, Zebilla and Yelwoko). However, this is being threatened by the extensive bushfires which
are destroying such plantations.
(k)    Segments of the road which are untarred generate dust.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Bridge: The footing of the bridge over the Kulpawn should be protected from erosion.
(b)    Erosion: Erosion of the shoulders should be mitigated by revegetation or adding chippings.
(c)    Borrow Pits: The borrow pits along the corridor should be rehabilitated by grassing. Alternately
the pits should be used to conserve water as the north of Ghana is seriously prone to water
40



shortages during the dry season.
(d)    Erosion: The gully erosion on the sides of the road corridor should be infilled.
(e)    Reforestation: Reforestation of the hills (which is underway) should be accelerated.
(f)    Stone Ridges: The use of stone ridges to increase infiltration should be encouraged.
(g)    Bushfires: The reforestation programme is being defeated by the bushfires. There is the need for
anti-bushfires campaigns in the area.
(h)    Dust: As the road is to be tarred along its entire length the dust problems in the settlements should
be adequately mitigated.
41



(XDX) NAKPANDURI - SAPIEGU
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road falls within the Interior Wooded Savanna (Northern Savanna) and is to be regravelled. Yam,
millet, maize and guinea corn are major farm products in the area. Charcoal and fuelwood are also sold
in the corridor.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    Extensive bushfires occur in the area and this may be endangering the Agro-Forestry
Demonstration Projects established in the area such as at Nasuan.
(b)    There are serious corrugations along the corridor.
(c)    The road section is near the Gambaga Scarp and runoff from the scarp may be affecting the road.
(d)    Dust levels are high in the settlements when vehicles pass by.
m.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Bushfires: Anti-bushfire campaigns are needed to help control the extensive bushfires.
(b)    The road corridor should be protected from runoff by revegetation.
(c)    The high dust levels should be mitigated by the tarring of road segments in the settlements.
42



(xxx) NAVRONGO - NAGA
I.    INTRODUCTION
This road lies in the Interior Wooded Savanna (Northern Savanna). Yam is cultivated in the area and
fuelwood is also sold. There are very few settlements on the road corridor.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    The vegetation in the area has been seriously affected by bushfires.
(b)    Some of the road segments have been turned into hardpans and there are also corrugations in
several segments.
(c)    There are several dams and dugouts along the corridor.
(d)    Elevated dust levels occur in the settlements as vehicles pass through.
(e)    Un-rehabilitated borrow pits occur.
(f)    The road traverses a small scarp at about 5km from Naga which is extremely rocky.
(g)    Parts of the area are said to lie in the Onchocerciasis disease zone.
II.    MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Bushfires: Anti-bushfire campaigns should be mounted.
(b)    Dust: Road segments in settlements areas should be tarred.
(c)    Borrow Pits: Borrow pits should be developed to help conserve water.
43



(xxxi) DOME TO KITASE AND THE MAMFE TO KOFORIDUA ROAD LOOP
I.    INTRODUCTION
These two segments of road lies predominantly in the coastal scrub and grassland vegetation zone. The
climate is tropical and is influenced by the north-south movements of the Inter-Tropical Coverage Zone
(ITCZ). Rainfall which exhibits a double maxima is seasonal. The major rains begin in May and peak
in August or September, with a minor peak in October.
Agriculture predominate as the economic activity at these road sites. The agriculture is mainly on the
subsistence level. Major food crops which are cultivated are cassava, corn and, to a minor extent, banana
and plantain. There are also small belts of coconut trees and small holdings of pineapple plantations.
There are no sensitive ecological zones in the area. The original forest has been degraded by the slash-
and-burn farming methods and through fuelwood harvesting. Much of the uncultivated land area is
marginal in use. Presently the identifiable tree species are mango, neem, silk cotton, and oil palms.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
A. Dome to Kitase
2.1    Negative Impacts
(a)    The section of the road which runs through Dome is in a heavily built up area. Houses on both
sides of the road are very close to the road corridor, and road work (and the noise associated with
that work) may disturb community activity.
(b)    During the construction period, dust is likely to be a problem at the untarred sections of the road
as are noise and vibration from construction equipment. The visit to the road section coincided
with the onset of the Harmattan season, and vehicles plying the road exacerbated dust pollution
in the area, creating health hazards for the residents by raising the level of airborne particulate
matter.
(c)    Sections of the road from Ashongman to Adenkrebi lie in a valley. It was noticed that the slopes
of the surrounding hills in some sections have been cultivated. Increased runoff maN occur in
these sections which may possibly wash off the road corridor in those areas
(d)    At Berekusu especially, there were signs of erosion in the area.
(e)    Small scale gravel mining has created borrow pits at some sections of the road corridor. These
are likely to be filled with rainwater creating favourable habitats for mosquitoes and also
endangering the lives of people and livestock.
(f)    There are no settlements close to the road corridor, therefore, it is envisaged that there would be
no demolitions of structures to cause any displacements.
2.2   Positive Impacts
44



(a)    Tarring the road have an overall positive environment impact.
(b)    Travel time will be considerably reduced on the road corridor.
(c)    It is likely that more vehicles may use the road as a result of the improved road surface and make
the area more accessible.
(d)    Dust levels should be significantly reduced on the corridor.
(e)    The improved road surface should make the clinic at Berekusu more easily accessible in the case
of an emergency.
(f)    Export of agricultural produce from the area should be considerably enhanced.
(g)    The improved road surface should increase the life span of vehicles using the road.
(h)    The construction of the road may create employment opportunities for non-skilled labour in the
area.
(i)    Broken sections of culverts in the area were also being rehabilitated. This is important as
increased runoff through paved sections of the settlement in that area would be better controlled
to protect the road corridor. Sullage from the neighbourhood would also be catered to prevent
pools of wastewater from forming which could become breeding grounds for vector transmitted
diseases.
(j)    The construction of the road is not likely to disturb the habitats of any wildlife in the area.
Im.    MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
(a)    Increased dust levels: Spray the untarred sections of the road, especially in the vicinity of
settlements with water to reduce dust levels.
(b)    Noise levels: During the construction of phase, to reduce human annoyance, heavy equipment
should not be used early or late at night.
(c)    Erosion:  Where there are signs of erosion, for example, near Berekusu, drainage should be
improved to protect the road corridor. Equally, cultivation of the slopes of the hills fronting the
road should be discouraged to reduce increased runoff during the peak of the rainy season.
(d)    Borrow pits:  It is likely that gravel will be dug in the vicinity of the road corridor to reduce
construction cost. Where this happens the borrow pits should be rehabilitated by in-filling and
possibly replanted with the local grass and tree species.
(e)    Pedestrian-Vehicular conflict:  The improved road surface will likely increase speeds. Where
the road runs through settlements such as at Dome, Berekuso and Aderkrebi, pedestrian crossings
are needed and speed limit sign boards need to be erected to reduce the rate of accidents.
45



B.  MAMFE TO KOFORIDUA ROAD LOOP
This section of road has been tarred and requires little road work; therefore project impacts should be
minimal. However, on some sections, the frontages of houses are very close to the road and pedestrian
crossings are likely on these sections. Therefore, speed limits should be stringently enforced to reduce
accidents.
Maintenance should involve brush cleaning, mainly at the edges of the road corridor. The road has a
positive environmental impact as it provides a well-paved access in the area and needs no further
consideration.
46



(xxxii) ACCRA - YAMORANSA
1.    INTRODUCTION
This road corridor lies within the Dry Equatorial climatic zone, which is the driest in the country. The
dry seasons are more marked and rainfall is considerably less. The road runs through coastal scrub and
grassland to its immediate north and the mangrove forests along the coastal lagoons. The mangroves are
of two types, the white mangrove and the red mangrove. The scrub and grassland are prone to extensive
bushfires. The mangrove ecosystem is a highly important coastal environment and is among the most
productive ecosystems in the world. Anthropogenic activities such as harvesting of the mangroves for
fuelwood and the use of the associated vegetation such as reeds, cattails and sedges for mats, thatching
and various crafts e.g baskets and hat weaving and bushfires have put the fragile ecosystems of the
lagoons under severe pressure.
The road segment between McCarthy Hill, Weija and Kasoa lie in an earthquake prone zone and has been
found to be the most seismically active along the West Coast of Africa. (Daily Graphic February 3,
1995). The most devastating earthquake occurred in 1939 with an intensity of 6.5 on the Richter Scale.
On February 1, 1995 a tremor measuring 4.5 on the Richter Scale was recorded at the Weija Seismic
station (Daily Graphic February 3, 1995)
The road corridor is to be reconstructed. The present alignment is to be maintained except for one major
realignment to bypass Mankessim to enable transit traffic, which does not want to stop at Mankessim to
travel unrestrictedly along the realignment.
Minor adjustments to the horizontal and vertical alignments have also been proposed. The bridge
downstream of the Weija Lake is to be reconstructed to prevent flooding/overtopping of the road and
bridge. The road is an important part of the regional national and international transport infrastructure and
links Accra with the Central Region.
The economic activities in the area are centred around agriculture, fishing and tourism.
II.    KEY IMPACTS
2.1    Negative Impacts
a)    The road corridor traverses a very important Wetland between McCarthy Hill and Weija (Densu
delta/Panbros Saltpond) The Densu lake which supplies about 20mgd of water to Accra and a
small lagoon on the outskirts of Kromantse are important water bodies. The Densu Wetland is
an important habitat which supports internationally significant numbers of waterfowl and is a
designated Ramsar site. The Densu Lake is also an important fishing ground for some settlers in
the area. It is known for its stocks of Tilapia. Sediment loaded runoff from the road during the
construction could contaminate salt from the Panbros Salt Pans, increase the sediment loads of raw
water being treated at the Water Works of GWSC and hence increase treatment costs and also
change the ecology of the Wetland downstream of the lake. Spillage of oil in the vicinity of the
Lake/Wetlands may contaminate groundwater in the area and also the Lake and Wetlands.
b)    The siting of the construction camps is an important consideration as oil, grease and fuel in
equipment may be spilled at the camps which may pollute the water bodies in the area. Social
disruption in nearby settlements could also arise if the camps are sited too near to the settlements
47



c)    Silt laden runoff from the road during the construction phase may pollute and alter the ecology
of the lagoon at Kromantse.
d)    There are several quarries around McCarthy Hill and the increased axle load of truck loaded with
aggregates could impose an additional stress on the road.
e)    There are new housing developments at Korkordjor, Kasoa and other segments of the road
corridor. During the construction phase dust, noise and vibrations from equipment may distress
the residents.
f)    Several settlements on the road corridor including Kasoa, Mankessim, Kromantse, Saltpond,
Biriwa, Anomabo amongst others have houses very close to the road. In addition to dust,
vibration and noise problems during the construction phase, pedestrian-vehicular conflicts are
likely to be more enhanced with the improved riding pavements particularly as there are no
pedestrian crossings, overpasses or speed restricting signs in these areas. On market days as at
Kasoa and regularly at Mankessim the conflict is more severe.
g)    In some of the settlements the raised embankments have no crash barriers.
h)    Adequate drains have not been provided for flood control along most of the segments of the road.
i)    The road crosses the Kwesinakow River at Ekumfi Ekotri. The river water is used for drinking
purposes by the residents and dust from the road may be polluting their source of drinking water.
j)     There are several cattle crossing signs on the road corridor and the animals may be posing a
danger to road traffic as they cross the road.
k)    There are several flood prone areas on-the road corridor as for example at Aakrom which may
undermine the base of the road. Some of these have been attributed to silted culverts or drains
choked with vegetation.
1)    There are small scale mining activities "Galamsey" close to the road segment on the approaches
to Mankessim. The depression are filled with water and may become favourable habitats for
mosquitoes and other vectors.
m)    A bypass has been proposed for Mankessim although it is not clear whether demolition of
structures may have to be carried out in which case there will be displacement of persons.
n)    There is a clay quarry belonging to Ghana Ceramics on the approaches to Saltpond which presents
a serious visual intrusion.
o)    There is a small plantation of eucalyptus trees near the road at Yenku, the Yenku Forest reserve
about 0.5km from the road corridor and several coconut plantations along the way. Dust pollution
during the construction phase may damage vegetation in these areas.
p)    At Mankessim, Biriwa amongst others there are cemeteries close to the road corridor which may
unknowingly be disturbed during the construction phase.
48



q)    At Biriwa the cut slopes have not been revegetated. Serious erosion of the surfaces of the slopes
has occurred to present a visual intrusion.
2.2   Positive Impacts
a)    The improved riding surface will provide a fast link with some tourist resorts on the western side
of the corridor including the African Academy of Music and Arts (AAMA) at Kokrobite,
Bortianor beach, Alors Hotel Complex on the outskirts of Mankessim and Biriwa Beach. But for
the full positive impact to be realised the branch roads especially those to the AAMA and
Bortianor beach which are gravel roads should be rehabilitated.
HI.   MITIGATION OF IMPACTS
a)    Seismic activity: As the road segment between McCarthy Hill and Weija lies in a seismically
active zone this-factor should be taken into consideration during the construction of the road. This
applies probably more to the bridge crossing at Weija.
b)    By pass at Mankessim: If the construction of the by pass will involve the demolishing of
structures adequate compensation should be paid to the owners. The District Chief Executive may
be involved in the negotiations for payment.
c)    Embankments: Raised embankments in the vicinity of the Densu wetland and lagoons should have
adequate cross drainage so as not to impair the biological cycles and productivity of the wetland
ecosystem.
d)    Runoff from the scraped surfaces of the road in the vicinity of the Densu Wetlands/Panbros Salt
pans/Lagoon and the Densu Lake which may contain high sediment loads should be strictly
controlled by holding ponds which may allow for sedimentation. It may even be necessary to
carry out construction in these areas during the dry season to reduce the impact.
e)    Axle load: The axle load of trucks which carry aggregates and sand on the road corridor should
be taken into account during the construction of the road.
f)    Dust: Dust pollution in the settlements during the construction phase should be minimised by
dowsing scraped surfaces with water.
g)    Noise and Vibration: Noise and vibration from road construction equipment which may cause
annoyance in settlements on the road corridor should be minimised as much as possible by
restricting construction in the early hours of the momings and late in the evenings.
h)    Pedestrian-Vehicular Conflict: To reduce accidents the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements
speed limits should be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
i)    Crash barriers: In the settlements where the road segments have high embankments crash barriers
should be erected.
49



j)     Flood prone areas: In the flood prone areas adequate cross drainage channels should be provided.
These should be desilted regularly.
k)    Construction camps: Construction camps should not be sited in the vicinity of the Densu Lake and
its wetlands and also near the Lagoons to protect their ecosystems from being damaged by
pollution. The camps should also not be sited too close to settlements to prevent social
disruptions in the settlements.
1)    Adequate drainage should be provided along the road corridor to control flood waters. In the
settlements the drains should be covered.
m)    Potable water supplies: Where the road crosses rivers which are used for drinking purposes in
settlements alternate potable sources (hand dug wells/boreholes) should be provided.
n)    The cattle crossings are a hazard to traffic. The existing warning signs are not easily noticeable.
These may have to be enlarged. Alternatively underpasses should be considered for the cattle
crossings.
o)    Illegal mining: The activities of the "Galamsey" miners at Mankessim should be controlled so that
they do not undermine the base of the road. Alternatetively the miners should be banned from
the area as the ponds they have created are favourable breeding grounds for mosquitoes.
p)    Clay quarry at Saltpond: The planting of trees to screen the quarry should be considered to
minimise its visual intrusion.
q)    Forest Reserve: The road segment in the vicinity of the Eucalyptus plantation at Yenku and the
Yenku Forest Reserve should be regularly dowsed with water during the construction phase to
prevent the vegetation being damaged by dust.
r)    Cemeteries: Cemeteries by the road corridor should not be disturbed. In areas where the road
realignment will affect these cemeteries consultations should be held with the District Assemblies,
Chiefs and elders of the area before they are relocated.
s)    The cut slopes on the road corridor should be revegetated.
IV.   CULTURAL
a)    At Otsew-Jukwa, the Tuafo No.1 Asafo Company has erected a shrine about 100m off the road
corridor. In the olden days the Asafo Companies were responsible for defending their
communities against invaders. These days their activities are only symbolic. The road segment
will not affect the shrine.
50



'.~--    I %
~ I 
4r
kil,'



- b
PLATES 4 AND 5
| i +
_
"'-
- '''-.''...



PLATES 6 AND 7 AND 8
V~~~~~~~~~~II



PLATE 9
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,,<~~~LAE1



PLATE 1 1
*- SE



Appendix 8
Organization charts of GHA and MRH



PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTAL UNIT
AND ORGANIZATION CHART FOR GHA
PLANNING DIVISION (HIGHWAY/TRAFFIC ENGINEERING)
SENIOR HIGHWAY/TRAFFIC ENGINEER
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC                                       HIGHWAY ENVIRONMENTHIWAINETR
ENGINEER                                                  MANAGER
TRAFFIC CENSUS                    TRAFFIC OPERATIONS                         ENVIRONMENT
SUPERVISOR                           SUPERVISOR                           SUPERVISORS
Chart denotes structure, not the relative value of positions.



REGIONAL ORGANIZATION CHART - 1998
GHA Headquarters                                                             GHA Headquarters
Developmient Department                                                       Maintenance Division
-F~ -_                    ..T
Project Contract          -  -  -  -  -  -  -                                     Regional
Manager & Staff**                                                                 Director
Director's Office:
- Staff Officer                                                               Internal Audit
- Secretary
Administration & Finance                                                                                                         Regional Maintenance
Manager                                                                                                                         Manager
Personnel.tGeneral.            Regional Qty.        Regional Materials           Regional Traffic
ers        t ISurveyor                                      Engineer              Planner/Environment         District Engineer             Manager R.M.M.E.U.*
Specialist
Regional Engineer              Administration         Maintenance       Workshop &       Mech. Equip.
Maintenance Projects               Accounts          Superintendent         Stores       Superintendent
Resldent                                 District
Enrgneer 1                               Engineer 2
Engineer 2                               Engineer 3



PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTAL UNIT IN THE STRUCTURE OF MRH
a a
a
C)
a a
j:3i                                           a a               C, -
a a
-3a
a C)
a a
a a C)
-C - -o
a 0 a
C-aa
C) a a
-a a -.
a a -
a c, C)
a - a
- Ca
C)
C) a
Ca             a a
-           a a
'0 C-          -
-o C)          a -.
o -            a -
a -             3 C)
C) a
a c-'
C) -5 -                           C) a,
-  C)                             - a
= a -                             a e-
a  a                               a a
a                                  C) C)
-,                                 - -3
a a
a.-.
a a
a -
C) a
a a
a -5
-5 C)
0 a C)
C- a C*
C)
- a a
a a-
-5
C) a a           r -
C) a C)           -
C) C             a a
a a C)            -3 -.
C) C a          -. C)
- C)
C- a a
5 a C)
C) .3 a
a C)
3 -5
a
-C
C) -
a -
- C)
-3=
a
a
-5
a a
a a
a
=          -      a
C- .3
0 a



Appendix 9
Mitigation Plan /
Terms of Reference for Long-term GHA Environmental Consultant



APPENDIX 9: MITIGATION RECOMMENDATIONS
12.   Recommendations to mitigate the potential adverse environmental impacts of the HSIC
are divided into the following categories: i) on-site maintenance; ii) training; iii)
ongoing road construction and maintenance; iv) contractual compliance; and v) site-
and region-specific mitigation. The following are recommendations for mitigation
activities, based upon the specific mitigation plan, including cost implications, which
is included as part of the Draft Final EIA for HSIC.
i.    On-site Maintenance:
1.1  In order to assist in the development of an environmental unit within GHA, technical
assistance (TA) from a specialist (i.e., a long-term consultant) with a background in
environmental impact assessment, should be sought to work in GHA for a period of
two years. The TA would assist and train three staff members from GHA proposed
for the environmental unit, to oversee the environmental aspects of the contractors
work (in conjunction with the consultants hired to supervise contractors' work). The
unit would also establish an ongoing monitoring program to ensure that the
recommendations made for mnitigating the on-site impacts of HSIC are closely adhered
to. As cutting of hills for roads disturbs the ecosystem in diverse ways, the
environmental specialist should be consulted before taking up hill road construction to
prevent landslides and soil erosion and damage to orchards, agricultural channels,
natural streams and built-up areas. Drainage arrangements should be given careful
scrutiny. The environmental unit should have the authority to halt work or impose
financial penalties on contractors for non-compliance with Ghanaian environmental
laws or construction bidding documents (see Terms of Reference and estimated costs
for GHA long-term consultant/environmental specialist within the Appendices of the
Draft Final EIA Report for HSIC);
1.2  criteria should be established on the basis of population and traffic volumes for
tarring, all sections of gravel roads which pass through towns to arneliorate the
widespread problem of dust. This is especially important on highly trafficked road
sections which run through settlements which front gravel/laterite roads. The cost of
this tarring will be absorbed as part of the construction cost of the HSIC project;
1.3  as part of activities undertaken by the proposed environmental unit of GHA in
conjunction with the GHA long-terrm TA, there should continue to be regularly
scheduled public hearings to provide a forum for localities to discuss their concerns
about environmental aspects of upcoming road rehabilitation activities with staff from
GHA-,
1.4   GHA should work closely with the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to
develop road sector-specific EIA guidelines which will serve as a reference to assist
local consultants and GHA staff to undertake road EIAs in the future;



1.5   before final payment is made to contractors, the stockpiling of topsoil and its
replacement and vegetation of gravel pits should be required and the number of
excavated pits should be minimized;
1.6  in the same context as 1.5, as well as in the design specifications for HSIC, measures
and costs should be specified regarding ways in which the highway landscape will be
enhanced by the Project, through the use of such activities as group plantations,
multiple row plantations and plantation of shrubs, grassing of embankment slopes and
shoulders, filling borrow-pits or considering converting them to aquaculture ponds,
treating scars on the hill faces by planting bushes and scrub. These provisions should
also be specified in the bill of quantities of future tender documents so that contractors
recognize the requirements during the preparation of tenders;
1.7  the GHA long-term TA, in conjunction with the consultant hired to supervise onsite
construction activities, will conduct ELAs for each road section prior to rehabilitation
work in order to identify site and region specific impacts and to make
recommendations for actions to be taken to mitigate any adverse impacts;
1.8  the use of proper environmental guideline documents, (see bibliography of Final EIA
Report) should be consulted when the environmental specialist or any other staff on
the HSIC project assesses the conditions and structural adequacy of existing drainage
structures and facilities with a view toward recommending improvements to meet
hydrological and hydraulic needs;
1.9  the design specifications for the HSIC should include provisions for adequate drainage
for all roads, especially where they pass through human settlements as these are prone
to erosion when no drainage channels have been provided; and
1.10  to reduce accidents in the road corridor in the vicinity of settlements, speed limits should
be clearly posted and rumble strips and pedestrian crossings provided.
ii.   Institutional Strengthening and Environmental Training
2.1   GHA should establish an environmental unit in the Planning Division which will be
staffed by three persons to oversee the management of all environmental activities of
GHA.
2.2   GHA should finalize a training plan, including cost implications, to ensure that
environmental management is institutionalized into the context of GHA work and that
environmental activities are given the highest priority (see Appendices in Final EIA
Report which provides an outline for a proposed training plan). As GHA does not yet
have trained staff for on-site supervision of construction, it should seek local
consultants or seconded staff from an organization such as the Ghana Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) or the University of Science and Technology. GHA should
recruit environmental science personnel and train highway engineers and managers in



environmentally sound practices. Training could consist of a series of in-country
training modules, based on the World Bank roads and environment handbook, using
actual road construction as case studies. Three or four modules of 3-5 days each
would be adequate to cover the preparation of EIAs for road projects, the management
of environmental practices during road projects, the management of road maintenance
activities for ensuring long-term environmental sustainability of road work, and key
environmental impacts and rehabilitation measures associated with road impacts. The
environmental specialist, in conjunction with the GOG EPA, should develop a training
handbook for GHA staff that demonstrates procedures for minimizing soil erosion,
designing drainage control systems, managing gravel pit use and restoration, and
minimizing destruction of contiguous areas;
2.3   GHA should develop plans and a budget to allow the long-term TA and staff from the
proposed environmental unit to undertake an environmental awareness campaign which
will include conducting mobile training seminars for communities on the necessity of
road maintenance and the sustainability of roads. GHA would use videos and other
media to explain the damaging effects of soil erosion on the conditions of the roads.
These seminars could also be used in collaboration with other extension services, such
as functional literacy campaigns, mobile planning units, the Ghana Information
Services, and the Ghana Education Service to expand environmental awareness;
2.4  in addition to in-country training modules for GHA staff workshops, seminars and
overseas field trips should be organized. Additionally, GHA would maintain reference
library containing literature on environmental aspects of road projects.
iii.   Environmental Management of Ongoing Road Construction and Maintenance:
3.1   during the two-year tenure of the environmental specialist in the proposed
environmental unit of GHA, the unit should take over the ongoing supervision of
environmental management of GHAs' activities, with continued advisory technical
assistance of the environmental specialist. The staff of the environmental unit will
have also been given training which will include both in-country and foreign
components. The unit will be part of the Planning Division of GHA with
responsibility for carrying out ElAs, hiring and supervising outside environmental
consultants as needed, coordinating with the new environmental staff who will be
selected within the regional offices of GHA, coordinating with the EPA, developing
training programs in environmental aspects of road projects, conducting ongoing
monitoring programs to ensure compliance with recommendations made in EIAS, and
coordinating with the proposed environmental units in MRH, the Department of Feeder
Roads (DFR) and the Department of Urban Roads (DUR). The World Bank could
assist GHA in this institutional strengthening effort by making provision for training
activities and related support to strengthen GHA's capacity for conducting ElAs and
environmental management;
3.2  the staff of the environmental unit should ensure that there is compliance of
appropriate Government bodies with existing laws and procedures for compensating



landholders who lose land to gravel pits during road projects;
3.3   the staff from GHAs' environmental unit should liaise and coordinate with the GOG
EPA to develop criteria for the ongoing supervision of environmental planning and
policy for road projects and to identify road rehabilitation or reconstruction activities
that may have significant direct or secondary environmental impacts. This would
include, but not be limited to, those roads that cause direct impacts in crossing or
passing wetlands, forest areas and reserves, wildlife sanctuaries and other
environmentally sensitive areas; and
3.4   strengthened institutional coordination and interagency arrangements will be carried
out to enable the staff from the environmental unit of GHA to confer with other
relevant government agencies at district and national levels to deal with specific road
sector issues (such as conferring with the Forestry Department to ensure that improved
access does not induce forest loss).



iv.   Contractual Compliance Provisions:
4.1   standard environmental protection clauses in the construction bid documents should
define drainage requirements, dust control, erosion control, stream crossing, road
safety, illegal poaching, or harassing of wildlife and control of contaminants such as
fuel and lubricants; and
4.2   environmental protection clauses should be included in the construction bid documents
with clear penalties for non-compliance.



Terms of Reference for Long-Term Environment Specialist for GHA
Background
The implementation of HSIC includes conducting site-specific environmental assessments of
road sections and ongoing monitoring of environmental impacts from HSIC activities; the
Project provides an opportunity to review and strengthen the overall management of
environmental related aspects of road projects in Ghana. As one central aspect of
strengthening environmental management of road projects, it is proposed that the GHA
establish a new Environmental Unit within the Division of Planning to supervise all aspects of
environmental assessment and related monitoring and mitigation activities.
In order to assist in the development of such an environmental unit within GHA, technical
assistance (TA) from a specialist (i.e., a long-term consultant) is needed to work in GHA for
a period of two years.
Tasks
1. Assist and train three staff members from GHA proposed for the environmental unit in
writing of enviromnental impact assessments, hiring and supervising of environmental
consultants, and preparation and management of monitoring and mitigation programs to
minimize environmental impacts of road works.
2. To assist the three staff members proposed for the environmental unit to oversee the
environmental aspects of the contractors work, in conjunction with the consultants hired to
supervise contractors' work).
3. Assist the environmental unit of GHA to establish an ongoing monitoring program to
ensure that the recommendations made for mitigating the on-site impacts of HSIC. sugge%ted
in the Environmental Impacts Assessment Report of HSIC, are closely adhered to
4. Assist the GHA/consultants to ensure that plans for road works wAll minimlizc lJd%ldes
and soil erosion and place sufficient drainage facilities and safety prova%on% alon, rai%d%des,
especially where they pass through settlement areas.
5. Assist the GHA/consultants to impose financial penalties or to halt work of contractors for
non-compliance with Ghanaian environmental laws or construction bidding documents.
6. Assist the GHA to conduct regularly schedules public hearings to provide a forum for
localities to discuss their concerns about environmental aspects of upcoming road
rehabilitation activities.



7. Assist GHA to work in conjunction with the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) to develop road sector-specific EIA guidelines and a training handbook for GHA staff
which will serve as references to assist local consultants and GHA staff to undertake road
ELAs.
8. Assist the GHA to conduct EIAs for each road section prior to rehabilitation work in order
to identify site and region sepcific impacts and to make recommendations for actions to be
taken to mitigate any adverse impacts.
9. Assist GHA to collect and to utilize proper environmental guideline documents in
assessing the conditions and structural adequacy of existing drainage structures and facilities
with a view toward recommending improvements.
10. Assist the staff form the environmental unit to undertake an environmental awareness
campaign which will include conducting mobile training seminars for communities on the
necessity of road maintenance and sustainability of roads.
11. Assist GHA by serving as advisor, to help with the ongoing operation of the
environmental unit, beyond the consultants' two year tenure as full-time technical assistance
specialist.
Output
At the completion of their assignment, the consultant will submit to GHA a draft report of
their findings and conclusions and recommendations for the continued operation and
development of the environmental management of road projects in Ghana and for the
operation of the environmental unit in GHA.
Qualifications
The Environmental Specialist must have a Masters level or above education in environmental
impact assessment. She/he must also have at least five years experience working in
developing countries in the areas of environmental impact assessment of transportation
projects. The Specialist must also be familiar with the working procedures and project cycle
of the World Bank and other major donor organizations.
Duration
The Environmental Specialist is expected to work for a period of two years in GHA to begin
within the first quarter of the HSIC Project Start-up.
Equipment/Provisions
The Environmental Specialist will be provided with a computer, office space, telephone, a
vehicle and driver, access to a fax machine, and a secretary for the duration of their
tenure.Scope of Work of Long-Term Environment Specialist for GHA



Background
The implementation of HSIC includes conducting site-specific environmental assessments of
road sections and ongoing monitoring of environmental impacts from HSIC activities; the
Project provides an opportunity to review and strengthen the overall management of
environmental related aspects of road projects in Ghana. As one central aspect of
strengthening environmental management of road projects, it is proposed that the GHA
establish a new Environmental Unit within the Division of Planning to supervise all aspects of
environmental assessment and related monitoring and mitigation activities.
In order to assist in the development of such an environmental unit within GHA, technical
assistance (TA) from a specialist (i.e., a long-term consultant) is needed to work in GHA for
a period of two years.
Tasks
1. Assist and train three staff members from GHA proposed for the environmental unit in
writing of environmental impact assessments, hiring and supervising of environmental
consultants, and preparation and management of monitoring and mitigation programs to
minimize environmental impacts of road works.
2. To assist the three staff members proposed for the environmental unit to oversee the
environmental aspects of the contractors work, in conjunction with the consultants hired to
supervise contractors' work).
3. Assist the environmental unit of GHA to establish an ongoing monitoring program to
ensure that the recommendations made for mitigating the on-site impacts of HSIC, suggested
in the Environmental Impacts Assessment Report of HSIC, are closely adhered to.
4. Assist the GHA/consultants to ensure that plans for road works will minimize landslides
and soil erosion and place sufficient drainage facilities and safety provisions along roadsides,
especially where they pass through settlement areas.
5. Assist the GHA/consultants to impose financial penalties or to halt work of contractors for
non-compliance with Ghanaian environmental laws or construction bidding documents.
6. Assist the GHA to conduct regularly schedules public hearings to provide a forum for
localities to discuss their concerns about environmental aspects of upcoming road
rehabilitation activities.
7. Assist GHA to work in conjunction with the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) to develop road sector-specific EIA guidelines and a training handbook for GHA staff
which will serve as references to assist local consultants and GHA staff to undertake road
ELAs.



8. Assist the GHA to conduct EIAs for each road section prior to rehabilitation work in order
to identify site and region sepcific impacts and to make recommendations for actions to be
taken to mitigate any adverse impacts.
9. Assist GHA to collect and to utilize proper environmental guideline documents in
assessing the conditions and structural adequacy of existing drainage structures and facilities
with a view toward recommending improvements.
10. Assist the staff form the environmental unit to undertake an environmental awareness
campaign which will include conducting mobile training seminars for communities on the
necessity of road maintenance and sustainability of roads.
11. Assist GHA by serving as advisor, to help with the ongoing operation of the
environmental unit, beyond the consultants' two year tenure as full-time technical assistance
specialist.
Output
At the completion of their assignment, the consultant will subrnit to GHA a draft report of
their findings and conclusions and recommendations for the continued operation and
development of the environmental management of road projects in Ghana and for the
operation of the environmental unit in GHA.
Qualifications
The Environmental Specialist must have a Masters level or above education in environmental
impact assessment. She/he must also have at least five years experience working in
developing countries in the areas of environmental impact assessment of transportation
projects. The Specialist must also be familiar with the working procedures and project cycle
of the World Bank and other major donor organizations.
Duration
The Environmental Specialist is expected to work for a period of two years in GIIA to begin
within the first quarter of the HSIC Project Start-up.
Equipment/Provisions
The Environmental Specialist will be provided with a computer, office space, telephone, a
vehicle and driver, access to a fax machine, and a secretary for the duration of their tenure.



Appendix 10
Training Plan for GHA



APPENDIX 10:
SUGGESTIONS FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING PROGRAM
A training course for GHA staff focusing on environmental problems of development
activities in Ghana and the approaches to assessing the environmental impacts of such
activities should be developed. Specific examples would illustrate environmental and
economic costs of inadequately designed projects and benefits that can accrue from
mitigating adverse environmental impacts in project design. Particular attention would
also be placed on the implementation stage to produce examples of procedures that allow
the identification and mitigation of adverse environmental impacts during this stage. The
course should assist participants to:
*     improve knowledge and skills in fundamentals of ecology and in the techniques
of identifying, quantifying, evaluating, and assessing environmental impacts of
highway projects;
*     meet current legal requirements and minimize project delays by including
considerations about environmental requirements and standards in day-to-day
design and supervisory work;
*     spot environmental problems ahead of time by developing a practical knowledge
of impacts of road projects;
*     nminimize environmental problems by integrating positive and mitigating impact
measures into the design of road projects to maximize the project's benefits and
minimize its adverse effects;
-     acquaint people with information of the general procedural requirements for
project development and environmental documents;
-     gain exposure to case studies of foreign experience in conducting road EIAs and
environmental management of highway development; and
*     familiarize participants with standards, regulations, and enforcement procedures
of road sector environmental impacts.
2.    Specific training should be conducted for managerial and technical staff in
environmentally related fields. Staff from the GHA office in Accra and from regional
offices should be included as participants in the training. Specialized courses could
include those on beach protection and coastal engineering, mining, solid waste
management, tropical ecology, land and forest/watershed management, and coastal zone
management.



3.    Programs should be developed that provide in-service training in the following design
practices:
road drainage - this should include material and instruction on the identification
of watersheds, runoff patterns, hydrograph calculations and the design of culverts,
runouts, and sidedrains;
gravel pit restoration;
slope stabilization, especially in areas of high, sporadic, and intensive rainfall; and
environmentally sound water and wetland crossings ensuring that road
embankments are seeded for erosion control, that water crossings will minimize
damage and restore embankments, and that gravel and borrow pits are restored to
approximately original condition or that alternate uses are provided that are
environmentally sound.
5.    An program of seminars and workshops on specific aspects of land degradation should
be organized. Following are some suggested topics:
*     civil engineering projects and soil erosion;
*     post-project evaluations to learn from the successes and failures of completed
projects; and
*     impacts of infrastructure projects (such as road projects) on socioeconomic
conditions, such as land tenure and asset distribution.
6.    A series of seminars should be given so that government staff, academics, and private
sector companies can participate in the same course. These semninars should address
several issues such as the need to stimulate dialogue between staff in various public sector
administrations involved in road management; the need to encourage future participation
of the private sector in EIA production; and the need to stimulate dialogue among
government staff from different regions.
7.    A course should be given which emphasizes alternative methodologies for conducting
EIAs for an audience composed of engineers and technical consultants actively engaged
in environmental analysis and research in road impacts. This courses should include
technical coverage of topics such as:
*     fundamentals and abatement of highway traffic noise;
*     historic and archaeological preservation;
*     fundamentals of air quality for highway planning and project development;
*     functional assessment of wetlands;



visual impact assessment for highway projects;
hands-on training simulation, covering all considerations to be taken into account
in the preparation of environmental assessments; and
hazardous substances (waste in highway project development, construction and
maintenance).
8.    With respect to the current availability of texts and training materials for road sector EIAs
and for the proposed training courses, there is still no regular delivery of materials from
western countries. So far, the delivery of such materials has remained sporadic and
dependent on foreign visitors bringing documents or a staff member from GHA or EPA
attending a foreign conference. The establishment of a facility for adapting foreign
training materials on ELAs and roads to the specific legislative and regulatory conditions
in Ghana should be organized. Such a facility can be established using the resources of
groups which have had direct experience producing texts on EIA, such as the
Environmental Protection Agency, several key local consulting firms, the Building and
Road Research Institute (BRRI) of the GOG's Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research (CSIR), other Government Scientific research institutes, or faculty from the
University of Science and Technology (UST) and University of Ghana.
9.    GHA should send participants to the upcoming training workshops which will be
sponsored by the EPA on "preparing EIA reports in accordance with the EPA new
requirements and guidelines."
10.   New courses should be prepared in EIA covering infrastructure projects which could be
used as part of the environmental studies curriculum of UST, University of Ghana and
University of Cape Coast, all of which are now actively expanding their environmental
studies activities. Such courses should include review of environmental problems and
miitigation measures for road projects and would include practical exercises in preparation
of EIAs.
11.  Internships should be organized to enable students to work in the proposed environmental
units of MRH to help train future staff for environmental work in the road sector in
Ghana.
12.   HSIC could be used as a catalyst for development of specific guidelines for ELAs for the
road sector in Ghana. GHA could use HSIC as a pilot case study for developing the staff
and the guidelines for conducting EIAs and in the training of the regionallzonal staff.
Funding for the development of the guidelines and the training of staff could be explored
as part of the recommendation of the Environmental Assessment of HSIC.
13.   Laboratory facilities and field research capacity of BRRI could be used to carry out
studies on improving pollution control and monitoring of roads, improving EIA
procedures and report preparation process, and on improving overall design practices with
respect to environmental mitigation. The participation of students pursuing environmental
studies at UST would be encouraged to assists in ongoing research work at BRRI.



14.   GHA/MRH should develop handbooks on road environmental impact preparation based
upon the guidelines found in such sources as the World Bank Environmental Sourcebook,
the Asian Development Bank's Environmental Guidelines, and the European Bank for
Reconstruction's Environmental Guidelines. This handbook would serve as both a
separate report and as reference on Appendix to the "Environmental Guidelines for EIA
Preparation in Ghana" which was recently prepared by the EPA in January 1995.



_____________________  l                                         N   ,'. ui
HSIC TlAINElG SCHEDULE
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES AND SEMINARS                   ____
NO. OF        CUMULATIVE COST
IPARTICIPANTS
:NO. DEPARTMENT/      TYPE OF-TRAINING        DURATION                       UNIIT     TOTAL  TARGET C.`CiJ,U'
jDIVISION                                         1995   1996  1997   COST       COST     REIVARKS
$         $
PLANNING    1. Transport Planning    2 Weeks       1     1      I      10,000   30,000 Chief E,'-utive
and Annual Meeting
2. Ecowas Conference on  2 Weelks            1     1      10,000   30,000 Deput' Cliuf Ex ZC.
Trans-West African
Highway Network 
3. IRF Conference on      2 Weeks     1      1     1      10,000   20,000  I[mIiatad RepresE-i:;
Traffic Congestion                                                       tatives
O                    4. IRF conference on      2 Weelks     1     1     1       10,000   30,000
Motor Vehicles and
the Environment
5. Traans-African High-   2 Weeks     1      1     1      10,000   30,000
way Conference
6. Conference on          2 Weeks.    1      1     1      10,000   30,000
African Road
Federation
:MATERIALS   IRF conference on         2 Weelks    1     1      1      10,000   30,000
Management Pavements
'MAINTENANCE IRF Conference on Road   2 Weekcs      1     1     1       10,000   30,000
Development and Main-
tenance
:D T>   2 i    L                     Qv`1 t1   , u {J :)             f 5   ,  ( et 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t  |__  X__  _  ___._ _____  . _J.......___ _ __  __0



HSIC TRAINING SCHEDULE
SHORT COURSES (OVERSEAS)                             1995- 1  7
NO. OF         CUMULATIVE COS'r
PARTICIPANTS
NO.  DEPARTMENT!       TYPE OF TRAINING        DURATION                         UlIT       TOTAL  TARGE' GRIOUIII<
m VI Si C4                                          19 95   19 96  19 97    I sr    CD Sr     rE It; 14,,
PLAtNNING    1. Environmental
Management in
Development              12 Weelcs   1      1     1       25,000   75, 000    .
2. Environmental Impact
Assessment Prepara-
tion?                    12 Weeks   2       1     1       25,000  100,000
.3. General Impact on
the Environment from
Road Projects            12 Weelks   1      1     1       25,000   75,000
4. Msitigating and
monitoring of
Impacts                   4 Weeks   1       1     1       15,000   4 5, 000
5. Transport Planning
and Management
New rerapectives         12 Weelks   1      1     1       25, 000   75, 000
6. Investment Appraisal.
anid Management          12 Weeks   1      _      1       25,000   50, 000
.1      7. Environmental
Relationships and
Demand Management         4 Weels   I       _     1       15,000   30,000
'If.



HSIC IRAINEN  SCHEDLE
ATTACHMENT/STUDY TOURS (OVERSEAS)                          ____
NO. OF         CUMULATIVE COST
PARTICIPANTS
NO.  DErARTMENT/      TYPE OF TRAINING        DURATION                         UNIT      TOTAL  TARGET G,.JI,
Di VISiCN                                          1 95   1 %   19 'n   oD sr     co sr TF.
.    >                                                     ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$  $
SURVEY AND
DESIGN         CAD for Roads and
Bridges                    12 Weeks    1       1      1     25, 000   75, 0)0
PLANNING       Tour of EIA Projects
(USA, UK, Africa)           2 Weeks    3       3     3      15,000  135,000 Seie,;t-.l ;t.aff
rLANT AND      1. Plant & Equipment
EQUIPMENT         Worlkshop Management   12 Weeks    1              1     25,000   50,000
2. Mechanical Training
Design, Delivery &
Management              12 Weeks    1            1    25,000    50,000
PUBLIC         Corporate Image Build-
AFFAIRS        ing in the Roads Sector  12 Weeks    1         1      1    20,000    60,000
TOTAL                    3520/000
4                                                  



SAMPLE TRAINING COURSES IN EIA. FOR ROAD PROJECTS
NATIONAL HIGH WAY INSTITUTE                                    1992 COURSE CATALOG
COURSE NUMBER: 14228
COURSE T=E    Environmental Training Center
COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT New Announcement Issued Annually
COURSE FEE:       ZS300 (estimated) per peison
LENGTE1            3 weeks (CEU: 9.0 Units)
CLASS SIZE         35
DESCRIPEION: Ihis program has been designed to provide an intensive, hands-on training
course cvering all of the ccsiderations that must be taken into account in the preparation of
appropriate environmental documentation. It will include classroom contact, guest lectures, group
work; and field visits. Ihe E s curriculum, developed by FHWA, wil be taught by the Office
of Environment and Planning's interdisciplinary staff The curriculum is built around the
development of an actual envionmental document. Ihis environmental documeat and the
project it supports are the central trainng theme of the ETC  TIhe project will be of sufficient
compledty to challenge and develop the participant's technical expertise and decisionmaking
abUities. In addition, the project wil nclude a diversity of environmental issues to stimulate
detailed analyses.
OBJECIIVES: Upon completion of the course the participants should be able to:
1.   Underand. and apply the concept of a streamlined project development process.
2    ladependently perform basic environmental analyses.
3. Make judgements of priority on important project-related cnvironmental issues.
4.   Effectively coordinate with other Federal and State agencies.
S.   Prepare environmental documeats.
FOR WHOM DESIGNED: The program was designed primarily for those individuals in State
and local transportation agencies who have major responsibilities in the area of environment or
who are new to the area of environment Participants should have a basic knowledge of Federal
environmental regulations.
PREREQUISITES: Basic knowledge of Federal environmental regulations.
COURSE COORDINATOR- Ilene D. Payne, (703) 285-2781
TECHNICAL INFORMATION: Harold Peaks, (202) 366-2061
.I



N4TIOAL HIGHWAY INSTITUTE                                      1992 COURSE CATALOG
COURSE NUMBER: 14213
. 
COURSE TITLE:   Improvng the Effectiveness of Public Meetings and Hearings
COURSE ANNOUNCEMNT: 82-10
COURSE FEE:        S2;WO
LENGTH-            2 Days (CEU: 12 Units)
CLASS SIZE:        30 (Suggested Minimum aa Siz 20)
DESCRIPION: Ihe workshop emphasiz  practical techniques and processes for organzing
and conducting public meeings and hings. It is designed to increase the knowledge of
participants in the application of methods to enhance the effectiveness of public meetings and
hearings.
OBJECIIVES: Upon completion of the course the- participants should be able to:
I    1.   Determine effective methods to enhance the conduct of specific public meetings and
hearings.
2    Have greater awareness of practical methods for improving communication at public
meetings and hearings.
3.   Evaluate the effectiveness of public meetings and hearings as they relate to the entire
Community Envolvement Program of a State highway agency.
FOR WHOM DESIGNED: FHWA and State highway agency oftcials responsible for planning
or conducting public meetings and hearngs.
PREREQUISrIES: Knaowedge of fundamentals of public involvement-
COURSE COORDINATOR: Al Mler, (703) 285-2787
TEChNICAL INFORMAI1ON: lHorence Mills, (202) 366-2062



Page 3 -of 12
NATIONAL HIGHWAY INSTITUTE                                      1992 COURSE CATALOG
COURSE NUMBER: 14218
COURSE TLE    FunttionalAssessment of Wetlands (WET II)
COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT: 84 14
COURSEFEE   .  3,000 - 3 Days
4,000 - 4 Days
!  '    4,000 - 5 Days
LENGTIH            3 Days (CEU: L8 Units)
4 Days (CEU: 24 Units)
5 Days (CEU: 3.0 Units)
CLASS              30
J                    DESCRIMON: The course offecrs an overview of wetland coology, the impact of hways on
wetlands, mitigation, and the use of a method of assessing wetland fumctional values (WET II).
The course is avaiable in to versions, either totally dassrbom or field exercsc. Ihe dassroom
field exerc  is iised in demonstrating the self-instruction matedal included in the course TIhe
self-instruction package will aid in post-course review of the mateials. SPECIAL NOTE:
Selection of the course version should be determined after discussions with the course
coordinator.
OBJECIVES: Upon completion of the course the participants should be able to:
1.   Cite Federal reguations and laws pertainig to wetlands.
2.   Describe wetland classification and classification systems
3.   Utilize and explain the functional evaluation method developed by FHWA.
4.   Explain the impact of highways on wetlands.
S.   Describe mitigative alternatives.
FOR WHOM DESIGNED: Primariy for State DOT personnel who bave professional/technical
responsibilities relating to highway design, construction, operation, or maintenance activities
affecting wetlands. Other Federal, State, local government, and industry personnel with related
responsibilities may be permitted to attend on a space available basis.
PREREQUISIES: None, but a basic understanding of Federal regulations concerning wetlands
will be helpful
COURSE C0ORDINATOR Al Miler, (703) 285-2787
TECNICAL INFORMATION: Paul Harrett, (202) 366-2067



Page 4 of 12
NATIONAL HIGHWAY INSTITUTE                                    1992 COURSE CATALOG
COURSE NUlMER: 14226
COURSE IT-l     - Visual Impact Assessment for Highway Projects
COURSE AN6U1JCEMEhNT: 85-16
COURSE FE-       $2,000
LENGTIE           2 Days (CEU: 1.2 Units)
CLASSSIZE-        40
DESCRIPTMON- hs course.is designed to provide the highway professional wfth7an
undertanding of thc process used in the development of a visual impact analysis. It provides
guidance Oi the ientification, assessment, and evaluation of visual resources. Ihe course also
acplains how highway projects are to be assessed and evaluated to determine their effects upon
i.isual reso.urce It illustrates how the resulting assessment information can be used in making
decisions about managing visual resources in the Planning and Maintenance of Highway Projects.
OBJECITIVES: After completion of the course the participant should be able to:
L.  Understand the basic prnciples of esthetics and visual quality and how they apply to all
stages of the highway development process.
2    Identify, analyze, and miake recommendations on visual considerations in highway planning
and location; these include the view of the road, the view from the road, and the
conservation of natural and man-altered environments.
3.   Identify, evaluate, and make recommendations on approaches which maximize visual quality
and compatibility in highway design; consider the elements such as alternative alignments,
cross sections, structures, landscape development, and maintenance practices.
4.   Recognize the positive and negative esthetic impacts of existing highways and highway
elements; analyze and make recommendations to mitigate negative impacts and enhance
positive effects.
FOR WHOM DESIGNED: The course is designed for Federal and state personnel who are
directly or indirectly responsible for identifying and analyzing visual impacts resulting from
highway improvements.
It is oriented to the development, administration, and review of visual resource management
processes. No single professional specialization has or will have full controt over the visual
appearance and visual i.mpacts of highways. The course is therefore directed to highway
professionals from a wide variety of background and job experience.
PREREQUISITES: None
COURSE COORDINATOR: Al Miller, (703) 285-2787
TEC:HNICAL INFORMATION: Gene Johnison, (202) 366-2071      -



Page 5 of 12
N4A7ONAL HIGHWAY INS7TTE        -                             1992 COURSE CATALOG
COURSE NUMER: 14217                                            t
COURSE TIILE*   Fundamentals of Air QuaIity for Highway Planning and Project
Development
(Available 1993)
COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT: 'IBA
COURSE FEE:       $4,000
LENGTH:           5 Days (CEUJ: 3.0 Units)
- 1              - CCLASS SIE.       40
DESCRPONL Ibis couirse covem transportation/air quality considerations at both the systems
. planning and project development stages of analysis. Though a combination of lecture,
workshops, case studies, and computer exercises the following topics will be addressed: 1) Federal
legal and regulatory requirnemnts; 2) atmospheric and meteorologic conditions of concern; 3)
emission trends and.charactenistics of transportation activities; 4)analysis techniques at both
1 regional and project levels of concern; and 5) documentation and reporting.
- OBJECTVES Upon completion of the course the participants should be able to:
-; ,x-- Describe the air quality impacts of transportation along with trends and control options;
1 * -xInterpret transportation-related air quality legislation and regilatory requirements;
3.   Identify appropriate traffic, emission, and dispersion analysis approaches for both system
planning and project development activities;
4., - < Select the appmpriate analysis technique for assessing the air pollution impacts of
I   :-*  transportation actions at the system, corridor, individual roadway, intersection, parling
structure, or other situation related to the movement of people or goods; and,
5. Develop appropriate transportation/air quality repots.
FOR WHOM DESIGNED: Federal, State, and local transportation and air quality agency
personnel
PREREQUISITES: None
COURSE COORDINATOR. Al Miller, (703) 285-2787
TECHNICAL INFORMATION: Richard Schoeneberg, (202) 366-2076



i-rage o ox .iz
NATIONAL HIGH WAYimNSTJnTE                                    1992 COURSE CATALOG
COURSE NUM         1411 ,4-1.
COURSE TIIE: HUistoric and Archeological Preservation
COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT: 82-18
COURSE FEE-       $3,000
LENGTH-           3. Days (CEU:l 1.8 Units)
CLAS SIZE         40
DESCRIPIION: Ihe course provides instruction on the when, who, and why to apply
appropriate bistoric preservation procedures to locate and identify resources, to determine the
effect of proposed highways on significant historic and archeological resources, and to resolve the
effects.
OBJECIIVES: Upon completion of the course the participants should be able to:
.1.   Describe the objecdves of the historic and archeological legislation for preservation of
iworthy sites.
2.   Identify potential historic and archeological problem ahead of time through knowledge of
-what decisions must be made, when they should be made, who must make them, and what
the ingredients of a sound decision are-
.3.   Describe the procedures and the coordination with other government agencies which are
required by leislation and regulations for historic and archeological preservation.
| 4. Mnimize historic and archeological problems by integrating mitigation measures into the
planning and design of highway improvements to maximize the project's benefits and
; mnunize the effects.
FOR WHOM DESIGNED: State highvwy, local transportation agency, and FHWA personDel
who coordinate environmental and preservation actions with respect to Federally funded highway
projects which affect historic, archeological, and architectural resources.
- PREREQUISI1MS: None, but a basic familiarity with Federal regulations concerning historic and
archeological preservation wfll be helpfuL
COURSE COORDINATOR: Al Mller, (703) 285-2787
IECEIMCAL ASSISTANCE: Bruc Terbek (202) 366-2060



Page 7 of 12
NATIOAAL HIGHWAY INSTITUTE                         .992 COURSE CATALOG
COURSE NUMBMER 14203
COURSE TiTLE:   Ecology and Highway Development
COURSE ANNOUNCEMENTI 82-17
COURSE FED:        $3,000 - 3 Days
$4,000 - 4 1J2 Days
LENGTH             3 Days (CEU: 1.8 Units)
4 112 Days (CEU: 2.7 Units)
CLASS SIZE         30
DESCRIPflON: The course provides information on ecology and ecological methods for
1                assessing the effects of proposed highway improvements.
OBJECTTVES: The course will assist highway personnel to:
L    Improve knbvAedge and skldls in the fundamentals of ecology and in the techniques of
identifying, quantifing, evaluating, and assessing ecological impacts of highway
improvements.
2.   Meet current legal requirements and minimize project delays by including ecological
considerations in day-to-day design and supervisory work-
3.   Spot ecological problems ahead of time by developing a practical knowledge of the
coological impacts of highway improvements.
4.   Minimize ecological problems by integrating positive and mitigating impact measures into
the design of highway improvements so as to maximize. the project's benefits and minimize
its adverse effects.
FOR WHOM DESIGNED: Federal, State, local highway personnel who have responsibility for
identifying and analyzing potential ecological impacts from highway improvements, and preparing
environmental impact and other environmental reports.
PREREQUISITES: None
COURSE COORDINATOR: Al Miller, (703) 285-2787
TECHNICAL INFORMATION: Paul Garrett, (202) 366-2067



Page 8 of 12
NATIONAL HIGHWAY INSTITUTE                                     1992 COURSE CATALOG
COURSE NUMBER  14207
COURSE THrL        Fundamentals and Abatement of Highway Trafflc Noise
COURSE ANNOTNCEhMENT: 82-21
COURSE FEE         $4,000
LENG(ITh           3 1/2 Days (CEU: 21 Units)
CLASS SI2E:        30
DESCRIPT1ON: Ihis course is designed to provide training in the fundamentals of sound and its
transmission, traffic noise sources, measurement methods, traffic noise prediction. and noise
barrier design.
OBJECIIVES: Upon completion of the course the participants should be able to:
1.   Read, review, and evaluate a highway traffic noise report and understand all of the
technical terms and phrases that are commonly used.
2.   Make noise measurements with a sound level meter.
3.   Make traffic noise predictions using the DIHWAHighway Traffic Noise Prediction ModeL
4.   Conduct preliminary analysis of highway noise abatement measures.
FOR WHOM DESIGNED: Federal, State, and local personnel responsible for identifying and
analyzing highway noise problems and developing means for minimizing potential noise impacts.
PREREQUISE: Applicants should have a capacity for learning somewhat complicated
technical matter and an education in mathematics, up to, and including, trigonometry.
COURSE COORDINATOR Al Miller, (703) 285-2787
TECHNICAL lNFORMAIION: Bob Armstrong, (202) 366-2073



Page 9 of -12
4ATONAL HIGHWAY INSTITUTE                                      1992 COURSE CATALOG
COURSE NUMBER: 14231
COURSE TILE:   Practical Conflict Management: SkiUs to Resolve Highway/Wetland
Issues (Available FaU 1992)
COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT: TBA
COURSE FEE:        $4,000 Estimated
LENGTLTh           3 Days (CEU: 1.8 Units)
CLASS SIZE:        30 (Suggested Minimum aass Size 20)
DESCRIION: The course will present practical ways to improve the process of interagency
coordiniution meeings and to manage disagreements between agencies in the NEPAJSection 404
process. Such disagreements involve wetland and other issues related to obtaining a Section 404
permit and may arise eary during environmental studies or during application for a Section 404
permit. Course materials will incorporate skills and jechniques as used by professional negotiators
in reaching agreements Ihere will be lectures and case studies.
- OBJEC1lVES: Upon completion of the course the participants should be able to:
L Structure interagency coordination to facilitate a cooperative, problem-solving approach.
2.   Communicate effectively with persons from different agencies with different goals.
3.   Assess agency positions and disagreements during coordination to recognize which
disagreements are amenable to resolution.
4.   Use negotiation strategies and skills to reach agreement with other agencies.
FOR WHOM DESIGNED: The course is designed for engineers, environmental specialists and
others with either staff or first level supervisory responsibilities for interagency coordination on
wetland and other issues arising in the NEPArSection 404 process. Course participants should be
drawn Erom both highway agencies and Federal regulatory agencies involved in the Section 404
process.
PREREQUISrIES: Familiarity with the NEPA)Section 404 Process.
COURSE COORDINATOR: Al Miller, (703) 285-2781
TECHNICAL INFORMATION: Florence Hills, (202) 366-2062



Page 10 of 12
NATIONAL HIGHWAY INSTITUTE                                    1992 OOURSE ATAOG
OQURSE NUMBEP  14205
COURSE 7ITLE    Project Development and Environmental Documentation
COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT: NA
COURSE FEE:    $3,000
LENGTHIf          3 Days (CEU: 1.8 Units)
CLASS SIZE:       35
DESCRIPION: The coumse cxplains in a comprehensive fashion the project development
procss for Pederal-aid highway projects Tis nteatment addresses location studies, development
of project concept from location through Construction1 merger of all environmental and permitting
requirements, interagency coordination, project-streamlining and flexibility, corridor preservation,
FHWA's cooperating agency policy and FHWA's mitigation policy.
In addition to the broader treatment of the project development process, the course gives specific
training on technical and policy aspects of environmental document preparation. This includes
detailed instruction on the National Environmental Policy Act, CEQ and FHWA implementing
regulations, decisionmaking on types of environmental documents and the information needed for
the environmental documents. Ihe latter includes format, coordination, general content,
processing and approvaL
The course addresses Section 4(f) of the DOT Act and FHWA!s implementing procedures. This
includes documentation, coordination, and approvals The Section 4(f) instruction gives thorough
treatment -of FHWA!s policy of applicability, alternatives selection and content
OBJECIIVES: Upon completion of the course the participants should be able to:
1.  "Identify and develop strategies to address major project development issues.
2.   Define the purpose and use of various environmental documents and Section 4(f)
evaluation.
3.   Identify what should be included in an environmental impact statement (EIS),
environmental assessment (EA), finding of no significant impact (FONSI), categorical
exclusion (CE) or Section 4(f) evaluation and why it is needed.
4.   Provide those people preparing or reviewing documents with different methods of
presenting the required information.
FOR WHOM DESIGNED: FHWA, State personnel (including consultants acting for the State)
and local government who prepare and review environmental documents
PREREQUISITES: None
COURSE COORDINATOR: Al Miller, (703) 285-2787
.,IECHN CALtFORMATION: Fred Bank, (202) 366-2061t



Page 11 of 12
NA7T0tAL HGf HWAY INSTIFUTE                                    1992 COURSE CATALOG
COURSE NUMBER1 1422
COURSE ITrLE:   Hazardous Substances/Waste in Highway Project Development,
Constmction, and Maintenance/Operations
COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT: TEA
COURSE FEE:        $5,000
LENGTIM            4 1/2 Days (CEU: 2.7 Units)
CLASS SIZ          35
DESCRIPflON: This course provides a base of knowledge to FHWA and SHA specialists in the
vanous aspets of dealing with haardous wastes durng the development, construction, and
maintenance-operations of highway projects.
OBJECrIVES: Upon completion of the course the participants should be able to demonstrate
basic understanding/proficiency in the following major topics of the course:
1.   Understand the laws, regulations, standards, definitions, classifications, principles, and
techniques for dealing with hazardous substances/wastes in project development,
construction, and maintenance.
2.   Understand the legal interpretations, liabilities and defenses associated with hazardous
substances/wastes in project development, construction, and maintenance
3.   Perform or arrange for reliable early screening, investigations, and audits for the presence
and proper disposition of hazardous substances/vastes.
4.   Coordinate with the proper authorities to determine and meet applicable or relevant and
appropriate Federal, State, and local hazardous substanceAwaste requirements.
5.   Consider alternative measures to avoid/minimize involvement with hazardous
substances/vastes in project development. construction, and maintenance/operations.
6.   Evaluate the risk and costs involved in dealing with hazardous substanccs/wastes in project
development, construction, and maintenance/operations.
7.   Understand issues and procedures associated with the appraisal and acquisition of
properties contaminated with hazardous substances/vastes.
8.   Understand issues and procedures associated with recovery of costs incurred in dealing with
hazardous substances/wastes.
9.   Arrange for appropriate treatment and/or disposal of hazardous substances/vastes.
10. Arrange for other appropriate mitigation of hazardous substancesAvaste involvement in
highway projects, including measures at site discovered during construction.
11.  Prepare documentation of actions taken, or to be taken, for incorporation in environmental
statements, project files, administrative records, standard operating procedures, hazard
- communication standards, community right-to-know reports, etc.
12.  Understand and implement proper procedures for handling, use, and disposal of h rdous
substances/wastes used or generated by highway construction and maimtenane nap
personneL                        -         -
: *-. -:r.,,,., ,,_,;,..._



Page 12 of 12
NATIoNAL. HIGHWAY INSTrTUTE                                  1992 COURSE CATALOG
13. Understand hazardous substance/waste health and safetY issues and implement appropriate
healthlsafety procedures in project development, construction, and maintenanceloperations.
FOR} WHOM DESIGNED: Location, environmental, design, right-of-way, geotechnical, and
legal specialists as well as some construction and maintenance personnel who have need to apply
I                this information during project development or construction or use hazardous materials or are
- licely to become involved with hazardous waste issues.
PREREQUISIES: Involvement in FHWAJSHA hazardous substancetwaste issues and
procedures.
-COURSE COORDINATOR: A1 Miller, (703) 285-2781
I



Appendix 11
Sample Guideline of an EIA Outline for road projects



Page 1 of 24
SAMPLE EIA GUIDELINE '
The following is a listing and brief description of environmental problems and
questions commonly addressed in highway and road project.
A.   ElAs For Rehabilitation, new Construction and Rural Road Projects:
1.   Project and Planning: Projects usually involve few if any significant adverse
environmental effects if they are limited to rehabilitation of existing H & R,
problems commonly associated with new H & R projects can hardly be
expected to occur, including problems associated with disruption of
surface hydrology, excessive erosion and silt runoff, inadequate aftention to
resettlement issues, encroachment into precious ecological areas or into
historical/cultural monuments, flooding due to inadequate culvert capacity,
etc. The data collection for rehabilitation projects should be limited to
checking with Government officials concerned (including national highway
agency and EnPA( on whether there have been any significant complaints
on any environmental issues stemming from construction and use of the
existing H&R system, and if so, to prepare the TOR for an EIA for
evaluating these complaints and for recommending mitigating or remedial
measures which should be considered in the planning of the new project.
2.   Construction Stage:
(a)  Will the project construction operations against excessive soil
erosion silt runoff from cut-and-fill areas, including use of temporary
holding ponds be needed?
(b)  WVill any exposed areas be left without proper resurfacing/replanting
which would result in continuing. excessive erosion?
(c)   Will the construction operations involve other hazards?
(d)   Will the construction plan include provisions for monitoring to ensure
contractor's compliance with specified constraints?
3.   Post-construction monitoring: Will any continuing post-construction
monitoring be needed for ensuring adequate environmental protection?



Page 2 of 24
B.   Environmental Problems for New Major H & R Projects
1.   Encroachment on precious ecology: Will the proposed H & R routing
encroach upon precious ecological resources, including forests and
swamps, which could be avoided by feasible rerouting and if not, how can
these losses be feasibly mitigated or offset?
2.   Encroachment on historical/cultural monuments/areas: Same question for
#1 above.
3.   Impairment of fisherieslaquatic ecology and other beneficial water uses:
Will the changes in surface hydrology caused by the project result in
impairment of valuable fisheries/aquatic ecology, or of other valuable bene-
ficial water uses, and if so, how can these feasibly mitigated or offset?
4.   Erosion and siltation: Will the project result in excessive erosion and silt
runoff (and impairment of downstream water quality or in damages to land
values) due to excessive erosion/silt runoff from exposed areas which are
not properly resurfaced or replanted?
5.   Environmental aesthetics: Will the project- result in unwarranted deprecia-
tion of environmental aesthetic (scenic) values due to (a) lack of resurfacing/
replanting of exposed areas, (b) blocking of scenic views, or (c) inattention
to the aesthetic appearances of the H & R structures?
6.   Noise and vibrations: will the project result in noise and vibration nuisances
to neighbouring properties and if so, how can these be feasibly minimized
and offset?
7.   Air pollution hazards: In urban areas, will the project result in discharge of air
pollutants from motor vehicles, especially carbon monoxide, which under\
adverse weather conditions could cause serious air pollution hazards to
nearby areas or communities, and if so, how can these be minimized or
offset? (Note: Usually the control of carbon monoxide from motor vehicles
is feasible but for most other air pollutants the problem must be approached
from a regional rather than on a highway project basis.
8.   Highway runoff pollution: Surface runoff from highways may contain
sufficient petroleum drippage plus spilled materials (including toxic and
hazardous materials) which can adversely affect aquatic ecology and
environmental aesthetics.
9.   Highway spills: One of the most serious hazards posed by highways is
accidental spills of hazardous materials. The EIA should review the
existing system for controlling and cleaning up sucti-spills including
appropriate recommendations, from the regional point of view.



Page 3 gf 24
10.  Construction stage problems:
(a)  erosion and silt runoff: Will the construction procedures protect against
excessive erosion/silt runoff from cut-and-fill areas, including use of
temporary holding power if required?
(b)   monitoring: Does the construction plan include adequate monitoring to
ensure contractor's compliance with specified constraints?
11.  Post-construction Monitoring: Does the project plan make provision for any
needed continuing post-construction for assessing the actual environmental
impacts of the project and for recommending needed correction measures?
C.   Environmental Problems for Rural Roads
1.   Encroachment into precious ecology: same as B(1) above
2.   Encroachment into historical/cultural monuments/areas: same as (82) above.
3.   Impairment of fisheries/aquatic ecology and of other beneficial water uses:
Same as 8(3) above.
4.   Erosion and silt runoff: Same as B(4) above.
5.   Dust nuisances: Does the project design give reasonable attention to
minimize dust nuisances caused by road usage?
6.   Construction stage: Same as B(9) above.
7.   Post-construction monitoring: Same as B(10) above.



Page 4 of 24
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY - GHANA
-PRINCIPLES FOR PARTIES IN EIA PROCESS
PRINCIPLES FOR ASSESSING A SUBMITTED EIA. JANUARY 1995
ROLE OF EPA
a)   Provide clear guidance on types of proposals likely to attract environmental
impact assessment and on levels of assessment.
b)   Provide proposal-specific guidelines (or a procedure for their generation)
focused on key issues and incorporating public concems; and a clear
outline of the EIA process. Amendments to guidelines should only be based
on significant issues that arise after guidelines have been adopted.
c)   Provide guidelines to all participants in the EIA process on criteria for
environmental acceptability of potential impacts including such things as the
principles of ecologically sustainable development, maintenance of
environmental health, relevant local and national standards and guidelines,
codes of practice and regulations.
d)   Negotiate with key participants to set an assessment timetable on a proposal-
specific basis.
e)   Seek and promote public participation throughout the process.
f)   Ensure that the total and cumulative effects of using or altering community
environmental assets (for example air, water, amenity) receive explicit
consideration.
g)   Report publicly on the assessment of proposals.
h)   Ensure predicted environmental impacts are monitored, the results assessed
by a nominated responsible authority and feedback provided to improve conti-
nuing environmental management of proposals.
i)   Ensure that educational opportunities inherent in the EIA process are actively
pursued*



Page 5 of 24
ROLE OF EIA AUTHOR
a)   Take responsibility for preparing the statement required for assessment of a
a proposal.
b)   Consult the assessing authority and the stakeholders as early as possible.
c)   Incorporate environmental factors fully into proposal planning, including a
proper examination of reasonable altematives.
d)   Take the opportunity offered by the EIA process to improve the proposal
environmentally.
e)   Make commitments to avoid adverse environmental impacts where possible
Otherwise take necessary steps to minimise such impacts.
f)    Modify environmental management practices in accordance with
environmental monitoring results.
g)   identify and implement responsible corporate environmental policies,
strategies and management practices, with periodic review.*



Page 6 of 24
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY - GHANA
FORM EA.1
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT APPLICATION
(REGISTRATION FORM)
OFFICE USE ONLY:           ASST NO.                        FILE NO_     _
This is not a legal document. It is designed to provide sufficient, relevant information to
enable the EPA to set an appropriate level of formal assessment for a proposal referred to it.
PROPONENT
Submitted by
Address for correspondence
Proponent's  contact  person                          Position
Phone No.                Fax No._
PROPOSAL
Title of proposal
Description of Undertaking/Development
Describe the scope of the proposal (area, production, capacity, duration, etc. as appropriate
please attach a flow diagram)
LOCATION (Please attach a map/site plan)
Proposal Site
Current zoning               Distance to nearest residential or urban area
Adjacent land uses
Site description
SERVICES
Water supply: Quantity required
Source



L
Page 7 of 24
Transport effects
Other major utilities needed (power, sewerage etc.)
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Detail nature of activity, its environmental impact and proposed management of impact
OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Are there significant risks and hazards associated with the proposal? - If so. please attach
details. Detail briefly relevant environmental studies already done (and attach copws it
appropriate)
Date                          Signed_
Attach additional information where necessary in case space provided is not enough.



Page 8 of 24
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY - GHANA
GUIDE FOR COMPLETING AN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
APPLICATION
FORM EA1 ASSESSMENT
The proposal application form is not a legal document.
It is designed to provide enough relevant informnation to enable the EPA to set an appropriate
level of assessment for a proposal referred to it.
It is not expected that this form will be approprate for all purposes and, depending on your
proposal, a shod letter or a more lengthy document may be necessary instead of this formn.
PROPOSAL
A simple. brief description of the proposal is requested and should include input processes,
end results, output quantities and timing.
Please include flow diagram if available.
LOCATION
A map/site plan is essential.
It should indicate the geographic coordinates of site (Longitude and Latitude) elevation and
slope of the site, any nearby areas or features of environmental significance (e.g. proposed
or declared reserves, water courses, wetlands) and adjacent land uses, including the nearest
homes or areas zoned residential.
SERVICES
Details of water supply, storrnwater drainage, power corridors, access to and impact on
transport can all be of significance and should be noted where relevant.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Criteria for assessing a project and setting a level of assessment are:
1.    The character of the receiving environment
2.    The potential impact of the proposal
3.    Resilience of the environment to cope with change
4.    Confidence of predicting impact
5.    Plans, policies or other procedures which provide ways to manage potential
environmental impact.
6.    Other statutory decision-making processes which may provide a forum to examine
relevant issues of concem
7.    Degree of public interest.



Page 9 of 24
The following potential environmental impacts may be relevant;
*     effectsgon geomorphology, land stability and landscape
*     effects on drainage and water quality (surface and ground)
*     effects on biota
*     effects on access and transport systems
*     effects on existing services including power, water, and telephone
effects on existing community facilities
*     effects on existing contingency plans for safety and emergency services
*     effects of emissions (gas, dust and noise)
*     management of solid and fluid wastes and stormwater
*     impact on adjacent land uses including any conservation and recreation aspects
*     impact of construction and operational activities
*     visual impact
*     social impact



I 
Page 10 of 24
UNDERTAKINGS REQUIRING REGISTRATION WITH EPA - GHANA
AGRICULTURAL AND RELATED SERVICES
AGRICULTURE
Livestock Farmns
-      Community pastures:
(a)   involving the clearing of land of greater than 40 hectares in area, or^
(b)   involving the dearing of land located in an Environmentally Sensitive Area.
Fruit and Other Vegetable farms
-      Management Areas:
(a)   involving the clearing of land of greater than 40 hectares in area, or
(b)   involving the clearing of land located in an Environmentally Sensitive Area.
FISHING AND TRAPPING
Fishing
-      Fish or shellfish farming in salt water, brackish water or fresh water, where
the proposal includes the construction of shore-based facilities other than
wharves
-      Permanent traps or weir fisheries, salt water
Services Incidental to Fishing
-      Fish or shellfish breeding and propagating services, or fish or shellfish
hatchery services, where the proposal includes the construction of shore-
based facilities other than wharves
LOGGING AND FORESTRY
LOGGING
Logging
-      Management of forested land for the primary purpose of harvesting timber in
a concession area.
FORESTRY SERVICES
Forestry Services
Application of pesticides
Introduction of exotic species of animals, plants or microbial agents
Establishment of forests in previously forested and unforested areas.



Page 11 of 24
MINING (INCLUDING MILLING). QUARRYING AND OIL WELLS
MINING
Metal Mines
Non-metal Mines
CRUDE OIL AND NATURAL GAS
Crude Oil and Natural Gas
-     Crude oil or petroleum production facilities
-     Natural gas production facilities
QUARRIES AND SAND PITS
Stone Quarries
(a)    where the total area is greater than 10 hectares, or'
(b)    where any portion is to be located within an Environmentally Sensitive Area.
Sand and Gravel Pits
(a)    where the total area is greater than 10 hectares, or*
(b)    where any portion is to be located within an Environmentally Sensitive Area.
MANUFACTURING
FOOD
Meat and Poultry Products
-     Abattoirs
-     Meat, fat or oil processing facilities
-     Poultry processing facilities
Fish Products
Flours, Prepared Cereal Foods and Feeds
-     Feed Mills
BEVERAGES
Distillery Products
Brewery Products
Wines
RUBBER PRODUCTS
Tyres and Tubes
Rubber Hoses and Beltings
Other Rubber Products



Page 12 of 24
PLASTIC PRODUCTS
Foamed and Expanded Plastic Products
Plastic Pipesand Pipe Fittings
Plastic Films and Sheetings
Other Plastic Products.
LEATHER AND ALLIED PRODUCTS
Leather and Allied Products
-     Leather tanneries
PRIMARY TEXTILES
Man-made Fibres and Filament Yams
Spun Yams and Woven Cloths
Broad Knitted Fabrics
TEXTILE PRODUCTS
Natural Fibres Processing and Felt Products
Carpets, Mats and Rugs
Canvas and Related Products
Other Textile Products
WOOD
Sawmill, Planing Mill and Shingle Mill Products Industries
-     Sawmills with annual production capacities greater than . cubic metres'
solid lumber
Veneers and Plywoods
Other Wood Products
-     Wood preservation facilities which use hazardous chemicals ot similar
chemical processes
-      Particle board or wafer board production
PAPER AND ALLIED PRODUCTS
Pulp and Paper
Asphalt Roofing
Other Converted Paper Products
PRIMARY METALS
FABRICATED METAL PRODUCTS
TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT
Shipbuilding and Repair
-      Facilities engaged in building and repairing all types of ships above
4.00 tonnes displacement including marine production platforms for
petroleum, natural gas or mineral resource extraction



Page 13 of 24
NON-METALLIC MINERAL PRODUCTS
REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
CHEMICALS AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS
Industrial Chemicals
Agricultural Chemicals
Plastics and Synthetic Resins
Paints and Varnishes
Soaps and Cleaning Compounds
Other Chemical Products
OTHER MANUFACTURING
Scientific and Professional Equipment
-     Photographic films and plates manufacturing
Other Manufactured Products
Floor tiles, linoleums and coated fabrics manufacturing
CONSTRUCTION
Industrial Construction (Other than Buildings)
*     Construction of pipelines for the transmission of oil, natural gas and other
related products from the source to the point of distribution, where:
(a)    any portion of the pipeline is to be located at a distance greater than 500 metres
from an existing right-of-way, or
(b)    any portion of the pipeline is to be located in an Environmentally Sensitive Area.
-     Diesel electric power generating plants having a capacity greater than 1
megawatt
-     Gas turbine electric power generating plants having a capacity greater than 1
megawatt
-     Nuclear electric power generating plants.
Highways and Heavy Construction
A.    Roads
B.    Waterworks and Sewage System
(1)  -Construction of trunk pipelines for transmission of water from the source to
the point of distribution,
(2)    Construction of trunk sewer pipelines.
(3)    Construction of trunk sewer pipeline outfalls.



Page 14 of 24
C.    Hydroelectric Power Plants and Related Structures
(1)    Construction of dams and associated reservoirs.
(2)    Inter - or intra-basin water transfers
(3)    Construction of hydroelectric power developments.
COMMUNICATION AND OTHER UTILITIES
OTHER UTILITIES
Other Utilities
-      Establishment of waste disposal sites
-      Establishment of facilities for the collection, storage or disposal of hazardous
waste materials.
WHOLESALE TRADE
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, WHOLESALE
Petroleum Products, Wholesale
-      Establishment of petroleum products storage facilities.
OTHER PRODUCTS, WHOLESALE
Waste Materials, Wholesale
*     Establishment of facilities for the purpose of assembling, breaking up, sorting
or wholesale trading of scrap, junk or waste material of any type.
SERVICES
SERVICES
Economic Services Administration
-      Resource  conservation  and  management  programmes  involving
introductions of exotic species of animals or plants for any purpose.
-      Resource conservation and management programs involving introductions of
native species of animals or plants into areas where those species do not
occur at the time of the proposed introduction.
-      Designation of Land for cottage development or other recreational
development
ACCOMMODATION. FOOD AND BEVERAGE SERVICES
ACCOMMODATION SERVICES
Establishment of Recreation and Vacation Camps.



Page 15 of 24
OTHER SERVICES
AMUSEMENT AND RECREATIONAL SERVICES
Commercial Spectator Sports
-     Establishment of horse racetrack operations
-     Establishment of racetrack operations for motorized vehicles
Sports and Recreation Clubs and Services
-     Establishment of facilities, including trails
-     Establishment of outdoor firearm ranges
-     Establishment of marina operations
-     Establishment of facilities, including trails, for motorized recreational
vehicles
Other Amusement and Recreational Services



Page 16 of 24
A. ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL PROJECTS IN GHANA
1.    AGRICULTURE
(a)    Land development for agriculture purposes not less than 40 hectares.
(b)    Agrcultural programmes necessitating the resettlement of 20 families or more.
2.    AIRPORT
(a)    Construction of all airports or airstrips as well as the enlargement of existing airports
or airstrips.
3.    DRAINAGE AND IRRIGATION
(a)    Construction of dams and man-made lakes.
(b)    Drainage of wetland.
(c)   Irrigation schemes.
4.    LAND RECLAMATION
Coastal land reclamation.
Dredging of bars, estuaries.
5.    FISHERIES
(a)    Construction of fishing harbours.
(b)    Harbour expansion.
(c)    Land based aquaculture projects.
6.    FORESTRY
(a)    Conversion of hill forest land to other land use.
(b)    Logging or conversion of forest land to other land use within the catchment area of
reservoirs used for water supply, irrigation or hydro-power generation or in areas
adjacent to forest, wildlife reserves.
(c)    Conversion of wetlands for industrial, housing or agricultural use.
7.    HOUSING
Human settlement development projects.
Housing development.
8.    INDUSTRY
(a)    Chemical    -       Where production capacity of each product or combined
products is greater than 100 tonnes/day
(b)    Petrochemicals -    All sizes or raw materials requiremenis of 100 tonnes/day or
nrentpr*



Page 17 of 24
(c)    Non-ferrous   -     Smelting:
Aluminium - all sizes
Copper - all sizes
Others - producing 50 tonnes/day and above product.
(d)    Non-metallic  -     Cement
Ume - 10 tonneslday and above bumt lime rotary kiln or 50
tonnes/day and above vertical kiln.*
(e)   Iron and Steel
(f)    Shipyards
(g)    Pulp and Paper
9.    INFRASTRUCTURE
(a)    Construction of hospitals.
(b)   Industrial estate development.
(c)    Construction of roads and highways.
(d)    Construction of new townships.
(e)    Construction of railways
10.   PORTS
(a)    Construction of ports.
(b)    Port expansion involving an increase of 25 percent or more in handling capacity per
annum.
11.   MINING
(a)    Mining and processing of minerals in areas where the mining lease covers a total
area in excess of 10 hectares.
(b).   Quarries
Proposed quarrying of aggregate, limestone, silica, quartzite, sandstone, marble and
decorative building stone within 3 kilometres radius of any existing residential, commercial or
industrial areas, or any area earmarked for residential, commercial or industrial
development.
(c)    Sand dredging.
12.   PETROLEUM
(a)    Oil and gas fields development.
(b)    Construction of off-shore and on-shore pipelines.
(c)    Construction of oil and gas separation, processing, handling, and storage facilities.
(d)    Construction of oil refineries



Page 18 of 24
(e)    Construction of product depots for the storage of petrol, gas or diesel which are
located within 3 kilometres of any commercial, industrial or residential areas.
13.    POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION
(a)    Construction of steam generated power stations.
(b)    Dams and hydroelectric power schemes.
(c)    Construction of combined cycle power stations.
(d)    Construction of nuclear-fueled power stations.
(e)    Erection of Power Transmission lines.
14.    RESORT AND RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
(a)    Construction of coastal resort facilities or hotels with more than 40 rooms
(b)    Hill top resort or hotel development.
(c)    Development of tourist or recreational facilities in national parks.
(d)    Development of tourists or recreational facilities on islands in surrounding waters.
15.   WASTE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL
(a)    Toxic and Hazardous Waste
i)    Construction of incineration plant
ii)    Construction of recovery plant (off-site)
iii)    Construction of wastewater treatment plant (off-site)
iv)    Construction of secure landfills facility
v)    Construction of storage facility (off-site)
(b)    Municipal Solid Waste
i)    Construction of incineration plant
ii)    Construction of composting plant
iii)    Construction of recovery/recycling plant
iv)    Construction of municipal solid waste landfill facility
v)    Construction of waste depots.
(c)    Municipal Sewage
i)    . Construction of wastewater treatment plant
ii)    Construction of marine oulfall
iii)    Night soil treatment
16.   WATER SUPPLY
(a)    Construction of dams impounding reservoirs.
(b)    Groundwater development for industrial, agricultural or urban water supply.
17.    ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT-
a)     Decision to remove -designated' status from an area designated for wildlife
conservation and managerment.



Page 19 of 24
b)    Decision of policy actions on:
(i)  , wildlife conservation and management;
(ii)   forest conservation and management;
(iii)    watershed conservation and management.;
(iv)   commercial exploitation of fauna and flora.
B.    ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE/CRITICAL AREAS
1.    All areas declared by law as national parks, watershed reserves, wildlife reserves
and sanctuaries including sacred groves.
2.    Areas with potential tourist value.
3.    Areas which constitute the fiabitat of any endangered or threatened species of
indigenous wildlife (flora and fauna).
4.    Areas of unique historic, archaeological, or scientific interests.
S.    Areas which are traditionally occupied by cultural communities.
6.    Areas prone to natural disasters(geological hazards, floods, rainstorms. earthquakes,
landslides, volcanic activity, etc.).
7.    Areas prone to bushfires.
8.    Hilly areas with critical slopes.
9.    Areas classified as prime agricultural lands.
10.   Recharge areas of aquifers.
11.   Water bodies charactenzed by one or any combination of the following conditions.
(a)    tapped for domestic purposes;
(b)    within the controlled and/or protected areas;
(c)    which support wildlife and fishery activities.
12.   Mangrove areas characterised by one or any combination of the following conditions;
(a)    with primary pristine and dense growth;
(b)    adjoining mouth of major river system;
(c)    near or adjacent to traditional fishing grounds;
(d)    which act as natural buffers against shore erosion, strong winds and storm
floods;



Page 20 of 24
CONTENTS OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT FOR EPA - GHANA
Proponents should discuss the scope of an environment impact assessment before its
preparation. An environmental impact statement r is expected to be prepared in line with the
final terms of reference agreed with EPA and must include, inter alia, the following:
a)    a description of the proposed activity and an analysis of the need for the activity;
b)    a consideration of the alternatives to the proposed activity, including the altemative
of not proceeding with the proposed activity;
c)    an analysis of the site selection procedure for the proposed activity, including a
statement of the reasons why the proposed site was chosen and the consideration of
altemative sites;
d)     an identification of existing baseline environmental conditions including socio-
economic aspects and other areas of major concem;
e)    a description of potential positive and negative impacts of the proposed activity from
the environmental, social, economic and cultural perspectives, for different phases of
the development (pre-construction construction, operational, decommissioning as
appropriate);
1)    an analysis of the significance of the potential impacts as identified under clause (e)
particularly as they relate to human health;
g)    the plans that have been or will be developed to mitigate the potential negative
impacts as identified under clause (e) particularly as they relate to waste prevention,
minimisation and recycling;
h)    the plans that have been or will be developed to monitor environmental impacts that
are predicted to occur and the plans that have been or will be developed to monitor
proposed mitigation measures;
i)    the contingency plans that have been or will be developed in order to respond to
unpredicted negative impacts;
j)     How the proponent implemented the agreed programme of public consultation in
respect of the undertaking.
k)    any other inforrnation that the EPA considers necessary to assess the proposed
activity;
Generally, EIS should not be more than 150 pages (excluding appendices) except those
prepared for exceptional' projects likely to cause a wide range of significant impacts.
A non-technical executive summary of no more than 10 pages must be included at the
beginning of the Environmental Impact Statement.
The EIS should include maps, plans, tables, graphs, diagrams and other illustrative material
that would make easy appreciation of the content of the EIS.



Page 21 of 24
CHECKLIST OF POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS TO BE CONSIDERED
FOR INCLUSION IN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENTS TO
EPA - GHANA
The Termns of Reference (TOR) for an Environmental Impact Statement may cover any or all
of, and need not be restricted to, the following impacts of the pre-construction, construction,
operational and, where relevant, the decommissioning phases of a proposal and associated
secondary developments.
i3    air, water and land (soil) pollutant concentrations at various locations from a source
or sources;
ii)    direct ecological changes resulting from these pollutant concentrations as they relate
to species, communities and habitats of concem;
iii)   alterations in ecological processes such as transfer of energy through food chains,
decomposition and bioaccumulation which might affect, species, communities and
habitats;
iv)    ecological consequences of direct destruction of existing habitat(s) from actions such
as dumping, vegetation clearance and fillings etc.;
v)    noise and/or vibration levels;
vi)   odour;
vii)  increased traffic generation and resulting pollution, ecological impacts, and potential
for increase in accidents;
viii)  changes in socio-cultural and socio-economic pattems covering:
a)    decline in existing and/or potential use of valued resources arising from (i)-
(iv) above and socialeconomic consequences:
b)    direct/indirect employment generation;
c)    in-migration and resulting demographic changes.
d)    infrastructure provision (roads, schools, health facilities etc)
e)    local economy;
f)    cultural changes (including possible conflict) arising from foreign in-migrants
and/or tourists;
g)    changes/constraints on existing and/or potential land use(s) in the project
area;
ix)    health consequences of any or all of the above.
This checklist is not exhaustive and it is general in its coverage. It is to be used, primarily, to
assist formulation of TORs. During discussions to prepare TORs it should be possible to
specify particular aspects of concem, for example, that the effects of ground level
concentrations of SO2 and particulate are to be examined for their effect on (i) human health
and (ii) agricultural production (iii) a rare plant species.



Page 22 of 24
EIA REVIEW CRITERIA - BY EPA GHANA
REVIEW GRADES
A     Excellent, no tasks left incomplete
8     Good, only minor omissions and inadequacies
C     Satisfactory despite omissions and inadequacies
D     Parts are well attempted, but must as a whole be considered just unsatisfactory
because of omissions and/or inadequacies
E     Poor, significant omissions or inadequacies
F     Very poor, important tasks poorly done or not attempted
REVIEW CRITERIA
I     Description of the development, the local environment and the baseline
conditions
1.1    Description of the development
The purpose and objectives of the development should be explained. The description of the
development should include the physical characteristics, scale and design as well as
quantities of material needed during pre-construction, construction and operational phases.
1.2   Site description
The area of land affected by the development should be clearly shown on a map and the
different land uses of this area clearly demarcated. The affected site should be defined
broadly enough to include any potential effects occurring away from the construction site
(e.g. dispersal of pollutants, traffic, changes in channel capacity of water courses as a result
of increased surface run off etc.).
1.3    Residuals
The types and quantities of waste matter, energy and residual materials and the rate at which
these will be produced should be estimated. The methods used to make these estimations
should be clearly described, and the proposed methods of treatment for the waste and
residual materials should be identified. Waste should be quantified wherever possible.
1.4    Baseline conditions
A description of the environment as it is currently and as it could be expected to develop if
the project were not to proceed. Some baseline data can be gathered from existing data
sources, but some will need gathering and the methods used to obtain the information should
be clearly identified. Baseline data should be gathered in such a way that the importance of
the particular area to be affected can be placed into the context of the region or surrounding
and that the effect of the proposed changes can be predicted.
2.    Identification and evaluation of key impacts.
2.1   Identification of impacts.
The methodology used to define the project specification should be clearly outlined, including
details of consultation with expert bodies (e.g. Planning Authorities, NDPC. Research
Institutions, Commissions, Local Authorities, Ministries, Departments, Regulatory Agencies
etc.) and the public, and reference to panel of experts, guidelines, checklists, matrices
previotis best practice examples of environmental impact assessments on similar projects



I-
Page 23 of 24
(whichever are appropriate). Consideration should be given to impacts which may be positive
or negative, cumulative, short or long term, permanent or temporary, direct or indirect. The
logic used to identify the key impacts of the development on human beings, flora and fauna,
soil, water, air, climate, landscape, material assets, cultural heritage, or their interaction,
should be considered.
2.2    Prediction of impact magnitude
The size of each impact should be determnined as the predicted deviation from the baseline
conditions, during the pre-construction and construction phases and during normal operating
conditions and in the event of an accident when the proposed development involves
materials that could be hamnful to the environment (including people). The data used to
estimate the magnitude of the main impacts should be clearly described and any gaps In the
required data identified.
The methods used to predict impact magnitude should be described and should be
appropriate to the size and importance of the projected disturbance. Where possible,
estimates of impacts should be recorded in measurable quantities with ranges and/or
confidence limits as appropriate. Qualitative descriptions where necessary should be as fully
defined as possible (e.g. "insignificant means not perceptible from more than 100m
distance).
2.3    Assessment of impact significance
The significance of all those impacts which remain after mitigation should be assessed using
the appropriate national and Intemational quality standards where available. Where no such
standards exist, the assumptions and value systems used to assess significance should be
justified and the existence of opposing or contrary opinions acknowledged.
3     Altematives and mitigation
3.1    Altematives
Altemative sites should have been considered where they are practicable and available to be
developed. The main environmental advantages and disadvantages of these should be
discussed and the reasons for the final choice given. Where available altemative processes.
designs and operating conditions should have been considered at an early stage of projed
planning and the environmental implications of these outlined.
3.2    Mitigation
All significant adverse impacts should be considered for mitigation and specific mitigation
measures put forward where practicable. Mitigation methods considered should include
modification of the project, compensation and the provision of aftemative facilities as well as
pollution control. It should be clear to what extent the mitigation methods will be effective.
Where the effectiveness Is uncertain or depends on assumptions about operating
procedures, dimatic conditions etc., data should be introduced to justify the acceptance of
these assumptions.
3.3    Commitment to mitigation
Clear details of when and how the mitigation measures will be carried out should be given.
When uncertainty over impact magnitude and/or effectiveness of mitigation over time exists,
monitoring programmes should be proposed to enable subsequent adjustment of mitigation
measures.



Page 24 of 24
4     Communication of results
4.1    Presentation
The report should be laid out clearly with the minimum amount of technical terms. An index,
glossary and full references should be given and the information presented so as to be
comprehensible to the non specialist. Also maps, diagrams, tables etc. where appropriate
should complement text. Technical information should be provided in the appendix.
4.2    Balance
The environmental impact statement should be an independent objective assessment of
environmental impacts and not a best case statement for the development. Negative impacts
should be given equal prominence with positive impacts and adverse impacts should not be
disguised by euphemisms or platidudes. Prominence and emphasis shoufd be given to predict
large negative or positive impacts.
4.3    Non technical executive summary
There should be a non technical executive summary outlining the main conclusions and how
they were reached. The summary should be comprehensive, containing at least a brief
description of the project and the environment, an account of the main mitigating measures
to be undertaken by the developer, and a description of any remaining or residual impacts. A
brief explanation of the methods by which these data were obtained and an indication of the
confidence which can be placed in them should be included.



Appendix 12
Minutes of Public Hearings from HSIP road Sections



GHANA HIGHWAY AUTIIOJUKl'lY
, and Aet of A                                                          Head Officc,
kg, sho   f"                                                               P.O.Box1641,
MY ze.        AKI.Q.  \t..1  61  _                                           Accra, Ghana
row P4.Na.                                      -                23rd March,1
TeL 66591.4                                       ,M                              19
646Z7-9                            w ;/
6462D
rdqkm   |HIGHWAYS
- .
THE PROJECT CO-ORDINATOR,
ASSOCIATED CONSULTANTS,
P.O. BOX M.259
ENGINEERING DESIGN STUDIES OF
TEMA-AFLAO ROAD
-                       tWe hereby forward three (3) reports/comments on the above
mentioned project for your consideration.
These are from:
1. G.H.A. Monitoring Team at Sogakope
2. E.Y. Kpodzo, Assemblyman of Agbagorme/Xikpo Electoral
Area.
3. The Chairman of Volta Region Inter-Sectoral Sub-Committee on
Built Environment, Ho.
You may contact us for discussions on any of the issues raised
in the submissions.
(F. ('AD + A   I(.
for: CHIEF XECUTIVE
cc: Dy.Chief Executive (Dev./'



*/1 '-IC a/1/1 7
ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 4T.S6
GXA2A IaGII NhY AUJTHORIY
A C C R  .
GP 7--A BIGHWAY A1J2IO?.ITYk\k
D>  VAT70TS D       oimRiDs cc. l-"TSC?
JJR7/I~GSA~Tf PILA1TS FOR T B Rl='rTT2-70:;IT 0
Tau-IA-AFLA0 _TRIUh ROAD
I or.iaard hererith, a coyr of thc re-oorts on the
above subjec t, matter by the Intez-Sectoral Su--
C.o--i.ttee on 30I T MMER0i7777 foz' 'roa- Stid:.r ;z2d
necessr-y action, -please.
2Lr.St>1 DI?8, / ? .y0T71T,    C0UtSP
,             ( _. ~~~J.    x:^- 
( The Ch-ain c                     )
Int.er-sectoral IS  Co        '..ittece'
(  1t 3nvircnr.ent.               )
(  oi.
,   ,  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~~~-   v -    -- - -__.L__,*_ _-,_-.   .-
>e Trcms Afrif7C97 II,i11.E!;y-a*
-~~~~~~~...o./ 



701 MII' RT?I,MAIT_JTA'IO!T OF TlAr-!.QLAO TIMUME
7                            R O A )
F olroidin  s the public -nnouncement by the Government
/       tso examine the -lans deposited at Sogskofe in connection
*  h above sLbject matter, the members of the Inter-SectoreJ-
.:etn!ork Sub-Committee on BUILTT EYI2ROIi3TT at Ho, exained
the 'lan=s on 17th I-larch, 1994 and cane out vinth the folIowing
cor-tients.
1.  In-oroner Disolay of Dravrings:-
a) One bound of drawings in inadenuate for the
1 uic.
b)  krarins to be properly mounted on boards
and crranged in the seauence of operation, for
scrutiny.
(P          c)  Tine allocation for inspection i.s insufficient
_,or a1 effective scrutiny of drawrinjs.
d)  There is need for a resident Technical  nuide
fron the lfinistvy of Roads and Highways and
Ghana Miahvay Authority for im-ediate contact
'by the public to explain various stages of the
design dra-aings and specifications.
2.   Standard used in Design must be nronerly i dentified
(Indicated) on the draving for easy cross reference
by those vho care to check.
3.  ,511 districts along the route nust be provided with 7
conies of.lChe dravrinas for their study and comments.
4.   Sector 'Utility services should be given copies of ,
dra1in:s for their study and to find out how it 
affects their services.
5.  T--ere shou:Ld -have been a briefing section for the
Lcc'1n=ocrats of the tw.o Regions 1prior to the di;SP2y
o2 t'he drawings:  This will enable them study the
dr.a..ng thereafter, Visit the site Lor anpraisal
be*'o-z'e t'heyr could coement favourably on the design.
Tin t;hne absence of this, it means they only wvant to
1,i. n eor  e together to azr-ree on nroposals subznitted.
6.  Inegend does not identify- e:tis.n-; or:' ro: 0ed roadns;
nevnw2hi.le, ist an-ers tear   the verca  ali  ient is
sno. m in broken line in the verticcl Sec tion but the
nlan- does not show anyt-hing on the enisting horizontal
"'ignments.
7.  jlT::c'2TOITS:
It has been observed that tGhe various junctions
should be re-examined and redesigned for effective
traffic seo7egation for both vehicular ard pedestria
so as to avoid conflicts resulting in accidents.
A-  -.+h-- iTnctions have to be re-studied in order to



/                ~~~~- 2-                                   _-   _
9.  MT. ere sLhouvld be a plan or map with a scale of at
least 1:2500 showring details of all tovms and v-17la.gesj
their connecting roads, other Dnhysic2a  features and
building/structures that they affect.-
10.    JTU-NTA IE'7C1TION
This junction is too narrow and visibility is
also very poor. This should be re-examined.
11.  DeterAination of buildin: line right of vay and their
ac qisition and control ahould be taken into account
by Ghana Highway Authority.
12. All exzisting brid&,es, culverts, streamas etc. should
be located on the plan and consideration mast be given 
nerging series of culverts at short intervals into one
to avoid waste.
13,. Contour nroLile is needed.
14.  There is a need to li2ese with Tovm and Country
Planning Department fox land,-use plans of all settle-
ments where the road passes so.as -o take account of
their nronosals for consideration.
SUB-COMAItTE' VMJERS:
1.  Ghana H16ghway Authority      - Ho
2. Tovn & Country Planning Denartment - Ho
3. Land Coission Secretariat  - Hio
4. M-ana 7ater & Sevwerage Corporation - Ho
5. 111inistry of 2inance & 3conomic Planngnn  - IIo
5. .cichitectaral & Eneineerinx Services Corporation - Ho



/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~5 At tqn                                  .
0 M-~~ c~~.N e\-l DA.,ZrA 0 6RjrZT-Et _
I TEF4A -AAFtLAO - 1'-( ROA,z.
~.  'i
~~ricXs K 
CE Y KPy   zo
-?                       hSS[vrn
C-Hi t;s    A c 
b-lCt sZe>v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



REPORT ON TRIPS TO SOGAKOPE PRIOR TO THE
7      PUBLIC HEARING ON THE TEMA-AFLAO ROAD PROJECT
/        A)   OBJECTIVE
The objective of the trips was to provide technical explanation and
interpretations of the above project as well as to gather as many comments
and suggestions as possible from the Public to Head Office, G.H.A, before
the Public Hearing at the scheduled durbar on Monday, 21st March 1994.
B)   DURATION
The scheduled period for the trips was for four days, starting from the 15th
of March 1994 to the 18th of March 1994.
C)   TEAM
DAY ONE:
MR. K. ASARE-AWUKU:         Director of Survey and Design Division,
G.H.A.
MR. I.K. ACHEAMPONG:        Principal Engineer, Geodetic
MR. G.A. AMARTEY:           Assistant Engineer, Civil
MR. JAMES WORMENOR          Driver (GHA)
DAYS:
TWO, THREE & FOUR
MR. I.K. ACHEAMPONG:        Principal Engineer, Geodetic
MR. G.A. AMARTEY:           Assistant Engineer, Civil



7   REPORT ON TRIPS TO SOGAKOPE PRIOR TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING ON THE TEMA-AFLAO ROAD PROJECT
A)   OBJECTIVE
The objective of the trips was to provide technical explanation and
interpretations of the above project as well as to gather as many comments
and suggestions as possible from the Public to Head Office, G.H.A, before
the Public Hearing at the scheduled durbar on Monday, 21st March 1994.
B)   DURATION
The scheduled period for the trips was for four days, starting from the 15th
of March 1994 to the 18th of March 1994.
C)   TEAM
DAY ONE:
MR. K. ASARE-AWUKU:         Director of Survey and Design Division,
G.H.A.
MR. IK ACHEAMPONG:          Principal Engineer, Geodetic
MR. G.A. AMARTEY:           Assistant Engineer, Civil
MR. JAMES WORMENOR          Driver (GHA)
DAYS:
TWO, THREE & FOUR
MR. I.K. ACHEAMPONG:        Principal Engineer, Geodetic
MR. G-A. AMARTEY:           Assistant Engineer, Civil



l l
/
/   D)   RESPONSE BY THE PUBLIC
The general response by the public, especially the local inhabitants who
would be the most beneficiaries of the project could be described as fair,
since on the average, about ten of such visited the exhibition centre daily.
It should also be mentioned that most of the inhabitants who visited the
exhibition centre came from settlements quite far from the exhibition centre.
E)   COMMENTS AND SUGGESTIONS BY THE PUBLIC
1.   The local inhabitants were mainly concemed with the extent of impact
to their properties by the new alignment.
The area most affected is the Akatsi By-Pass.
Farmers here wanted to know what would become of their farmlands
and other properties which the new alignment would be affecting .
2.   Another area of concern is Ghana's link to the Trans West African
Highway from Togo.
The inhabitants wanted to know if the previously surveyed alignment
(done in 1985) has been altered so that they could develop the land
acquired from them.
3.   A delegation from the regional capital, Ho, and members of a Sub-
Committee on Built Environment, suggested that copies of the Design
Drawings and Documents should have been sent to the regional
assembly and all the various district centres affected by the project.
The delegation also commented that the designs to be exhibited
should have been mounted on boards and arranged accordingly to
facilitate easy and rapid scrutiny by a large number of the public at the
same time.
They also suggested that the number of copies of the design drawings
at each centre should be at least three.



Finally, they commented that their Town and Country Planning Division
was not consulted on their future development plan for major towns
and villages along the proposed alignment before coming out with the
,/               proposed design.
4.   The following comments came from individuals:
a)   Inadequate provisions have been made for Bus and Commercial
Vehicle stops at all the detailed junctions.
b)   No provision for pedestrian crossings at any of the junctions.
c)   Triangular visibility is obstructed by buildings along Abor-Avenor
Junction.
d)   Existing structures along Ada junction have not been shown in
the Design, hence comments cannot be made on visibility along
the alignment.
e)   Most turning movements at the proposed detailed junctions are
not smooth.
f)    Approaches to the typical Tee-Junctions to the access roads are
too small.
g)   Ho junction should be changed completely to a Bulb or Tee-
loop.
h)   Dabala junction should be considered in the future development
of the Trans-West African Highway.
i)    A by-pass should be provided from Tojeh to Sokpoe to form part
of the Trans-West African highway. This is to help reduce the
rate of accident in the Vume township.
j)    Residence of Dawa complained that culvert at STA.40+675 is
over-flooded during rainstorm. It was however, realised that in
the design the existing culvert was maintained.  They are
therefore calling on the authority to critically look at the situation
there.



5.   Residents at Aflao wanted to know if the their building would be
affected since most of the buildings have their entrances right on the
existing roadway.
6.   The following intersections are accident prone centres:
a)   Tefle-Sokpoe (km 82+800)
b)   Sogakope (Km 85-450)
c)   STA 86+100
d)   STA 164+000
Residents around the above stations wanted to know what
improvements have been made to rectify the situation in the new
alignment.
7.   Curve at STA 165+649 is laterally inverted in the design.
8.   Residents at Denu-Keta junction suggested that the junction be
signalized.
GENERAL COMMENTS
The District Secretary raised a strong objection to the daily shuttle of the
G.H.A. team from Accra to Sogakope.
He insisted that the team should have stayed in Sogakope throughout the
exercise.
It was however, explained to him that because of accommodation and
allowance problems the G.H.A. management took the decision that it would
be cost effective for the team to make the daily shuttles.
Additionally, this also had the advantage that the-team would consult and
discuss problems with the Consultants and G.H.A. management daily.



LIST OF NAMES OF SOME OF THE VISITORS
WHO PATRONISED THE EXHIBITION
C.T. Okante                            Dawa
Torgbe Akorsu V                        Vume
Seame Anthony                          Vume
Miledzi Azumah                         Sokpoe
C;,               Satsi Sylvester                        Vume
Bright Q. Minadzi                      Larve
C.H.K Amedzo                           Agbazorme
Dr. J.G. Nyarko-Mensah                 Viepe
Emestina Nyako                         Viepe
Togbe Amengor 11                       Fievie-Dugame
S.E.K Adzamli                          G.E.S. Sogakope
E.R. Azawodie                          Sogakope Cold Store
Jerry A.K. Kaleku                      Sogakope
Paul K Agbemegah
Volta Arkil Quarries Ltd (VAQ)
Built Environment                      Ho
Schostek                               Accra
Design Consultants                     Accra



Ghana Highway Authority,
Head Office.
August 4th, 1994.
The Director, -
Survey and Design Division,
Head Office.
RE: REPORT ON DISPLAY OF DETAILED ENGINEERING
DESIGNS OFACCRA - YAMORANSA TRUNK ROAD
AT SALTPOND.
Please, find attached a copy of the Report on the above- mentioned exercise
carried out to he General Public at Saltpond.
GORDO0 A.  YAT
DESIGN ENGINEER.
(SURVEY &  DESIGN)
cc: The Chief Executive,
Dy. Chief Executive (Admin.)
Dy. Chief Executive (Dev. )
Director of Public Affairs.
Principal Engineer (S&D)
Project Coordinator (Kampsax International A/S.



REPORT ON DISPIAY OF DETAILED ENGINEERING DESIGNS
OF ACCRA - YAMORANSA TRUNK ROAD PROJECT AT
SALTPOND, CENTRAL REGION.
A: OBJECTIVE
The objective of the excercise was to provide technical explanation and interpretations
of the above project as well as to gather all comments, suggestions, and petitions from
the general public.
B: DURATION
The period for the excercise was scheduled for seven ( 7 )days, running from 22nd
of July to the 28th of July 1994.
C: TEAM
A team from Headoffice comprising the following undertook the exercise:
MR. BEN ENTWI                   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
MR. GORDON AMARTEY              DESIGN ENGINEER ( S & D)
MR. AGO - NAI                   DRIVER
MR. PAUL NELSON                 DRIVER
D: RESPONSE BY THE PUBLIC.
The general response by the public, especially the local inhabitants who would be the
most beneficiaries of the project could be described as encouraging.
C             It must also be mentioned that most of the visitors who came to the exhibition centre
were inhabitants from settlements along the entire stretch of the route who came to
check on how the new alignment would affect their properties.
E: COMMENTS. CONTRIBUTIONS. PETITIONS. & SUGGESTIONS BY THE PUBLIC
1)    The local inhabitants were mainly concerned with the extent of impact to their
properties by the new alignment. The most affected areas are around the
Saltpond By - Pass, Kromantse, Abandze, Anomabo and Biriwa.
2)    A number of accident spots were mentioned where the public wanted to know
if any improvements had been incorperated in the new design. Some of the
spots are as follows:



a) The Horizontal curve at Egya No. 1 Village
b) Ghana Ceramics Junction
c) The horizontal alignment at the Saltpond By - Pass
d) Essakyir Junction to Essuenhyia village
e) Mankoadze Junction towards Mankessim
fThe horizontal alignment on appraoch to Eyisam settlement
g)The horizontal alignment at Biriwa.
3)    Adequate road furniture should be provided to ensure pedestrian safety at
Kasoa and also in view of the new proposal, what effective pedestrian crossing
facility is being considered, taking cognisance of the fact that almost all the
overhead pedestrian crossings are being rendered ineffective by the general
public?
4)    With regard to the high incidence of road accidents at Abandze, a fishing
comunity, in the Mfantsiman District, the option of an Underground Tunnel
for pedestrian crossing should be considered to forestal further fatal accidents,
especially those involving school children.
5)    From Winneba roundabout,the proposed alignment ought to have been raised
to cater for the frequent over - topping of the road. This recommended raise
has not been indicated in the proposed alignment design.
6)    The problem of having culverts protruding out of the road as a result of
eventual settlement of the road approaches has to be taken into consideration
in the construction phase as this has been one of the main causes of road
accidents in the country.
7)    Alternative "B" of the Mankessim By - Pass should rather be implemented
instead of alternative "D" which will be about 1.5km away from the existing
road. Alternatively , the old road should be designed into a daul - carriageway
to be able to accomodate the increasing volume of traffic.
8)    A foreign company which has a claim on the Etsi - Lagoon, situated between
Kromantse and Abandze, is anxious to know what treatment G.H.A. has for
the lagoon concerned since they have plans of developing it into a recreational
i...                as well as a tourist resort.
This Petitioner's address is as follows:
Mr. James Moxon
P. 0. Box M 160
Accra.
9)    The Mfantsiman District Exercutive pleaded that a direct link be provided from
Mankessim to link the proposed By - Pass.



10)   For all future developments, all necessary precautions should be undertaken
to avoid situations prevailling in once prosperous towns like Saltpond and
Sekondi,where with the provision of by - passes, their town roads were
neglected thereby turning the towns into almost "Ghost towns".
F: GENERAL COMMENTS
The whole exercise would have been more successful if at least three exhibition
centres were used instead of the only station at Saltpond. This is to allow for more
people to have access to the new design along the entire stretch.
Also the design drawings used for this particular exercise was too small , as some
details which needed clarification could not be clarified from it one during the
exercise.
In future,the Regional Offices of G. H. A. should also be given copies of the designs
to study and bring out their comments since they know more about the roads than any
other party and also do contribute a lot during the exercise.
The issue of compensation to those the proposed alignment will be affecting should
be critically looked at and be well advised so that those still at deveolping stages of
their properties on the proposed road reserve will stop further development.
Attached are copies of petitions and suggestions presented to G.H.A after the durbar
at Saltpond for immediate action.
Oral petitions, suggestions and inquirings made during the exercise have been
documented and attached as well.
Letters of acknowledgement will be sent to them presently.
PREPARED BY GORDON A. AMARTEY
DESIGN ENGINEER
SURVEY & DESIGN.



AWUTU              TRADITIONAL                COUNCIL
Bankrers
Telephone No 3
Awutu Emasa Rural Bank, Ltd.,                   Post Office Box 1,
Our Ref--Ne ATC004/VO1.1/158                     Awutu Beraku. C / R
Your Ref. No                                     GHANA. W/A
YOUR EXCELLENCY.                           27th July,
PETITION
DISPLAY OF DETAILED ENGIIEBRING DESIGNS
OF ACCRA-YAN'RANSA TRTNTK ROAD
The attention of the President of the Awutu Traditional
Council has been drawn to "Public Hearing for Accra-Yamoransa
Trunk Road, at Teacher-'Training Courses, Saltpond.
In view of the reconstructional work on the above trunk
CO*       road yet to begin, I am directed to appeal to you to construct
a Roundabout in Awutu to replace the present 'staggered junction'
to ease possible accidents which have been occuring at the place.
Since the road was constructed about forty years (40) ago,
the number of fatal accident,recorded by the Police, Awutu, will
be about forty one (41).
I am, further direct4d to state that this staggered junction
links on the North with Obrachire, Bawjiase, Asa=inkeSi etc.,
and in the South with Senya Beraku, Fete, Cjo>., Wdinncoa, etc.,
Y-ours faithf
Ag. Registrar.
(MA.RVEL ANDOE)
THE MINISTER OF ROADS AND HIGITWAYS,
p. 0. BOX VI.45,
ACCRA.
Copy to - The District Chief Executivc
P. 0. Box 1, Winneba.
Hon. J.E. Nkrumrah, yip
~~~~~~4   :  4. 1 -  -       



f./
NANA EKUA AdISSAH II
REEGENT OF GOMOA DABANYIN,
C.R.
27 th July, 1994.
Sir,
RE: PETIVEON _  ACCEA/YMORANSA TRUNK ROAD
In response to the publication in one of our local dailies on 2V7/94,
I wish to present this my humble petition to you,                I I
During the previous cowtztuction of Acora-qakoradi Tru&x Road, the govern-
ment of Ghana presented us with an amount of Q207.21- being compensation
for 20.71 Aores of our land used.  Ihis is contained-in Lands Secretariat
letter dated 26th Maroh, 1962 ref. No.35910i2.
I am therefore on my behalf and on behalf of my people (Dabai4yin Aboradze
Family) appealing to you to work out from your detailed design the
extent of damage to be made on our land and the subsequient compensation SAte
to us.
Tladks for your usual co-operation.
Yoturs fa3  fly
iNA ECUA AKISSAH II
THE HON. MINISTER,
MINISTRY OF ROADS & HIGHWrYS)IM
ACC RA.
CC: THE PAROUNT CHIEF
0O3OA AJUKA1O TRAD. AREA.
GOMOA POI4ADZIE.
,2



Retiona 1 Cnr-iA.;3n
G.P.R.T.U. e.f T.UJ.C.
Cape Coast.
27/7/94.
G.P.R.T.U. OF T.U.C.
RFIONAIL SECRETARIAT PROPOSAL
I am directed by the e>ec:utives Regional Ceuncil
to submit below proposal for your action.
1.  fleutoval of Pipe Line at the  Loove - mentior- iorry
Park Yamoransa.
C'
R476L  AH4TRi&?
J.X. NKJN41..
TO
M4ir',;Tiy OF'm;&~I~~Y
GHAMA BIGHWAY AUThOYITY
AGCkA.



1I
I~ ~                     .fl  -
0/- {#:Pr0^     s~~~~C
9              \           ;  00   0  ' !  0  f:   1 0   '  3~~~~~~~~~~~-  .  A~
tt & t 90 t t t t t :



NAME                            COMMENTS
R. ESUA-MENSAH            VERY WELCOME PROJECT
B.K.ABAYE                 CHECK ON PROPERTY IMPACT OF NEW ROAD.
(SALTPOND)
K.A. WARMANN              SALTPOND, DISTRICT HEAD (RTD.)
J.B. DONKOR               PROPERTY ON BY-PASS ROUTE (FARMLAND)
(MANKESSIM)
MENSAH MOHAMMED           I CAME ASK WHETHER MY OLD LADY'S FARM
(SALTPOND)               NEAR TO THE ROAD WILL BE COMPENSATED.
ZAC ADAM                  MODERN CIVILIZATION NEEDS DEV. SUCH AS
THIS.
(TRG.CEN. SALTPOND)      HOWEVER AFFECTED INDIVIDUAL SHOULD BE
ADEQUATELY COMPENSATED TO MAKE THE
EXERCISE A SUCCESS
P.A. TAYLOR               WANTED TO KNOW TIME OF COMMENCEMENT OF
THE ROAD CONSTRUCTION.
JOSEPH ARTHUR             PEOPLE LIVING CLOSE TO THE ROAD SHOULD
BE SUFFICIENTLY EDUCATED IN ORDER TO
HELP THEM PREPARE PSYCHOLOGICAL ETC.
THE NEW ROAD IS VERY VERY WELCOME.
W.C. OTOO                 I CAME TO FIND OUT HOW THE NEW ROAD
WILL AFFECT THE ECONOMIC ACTIVITY OF
THE PEOPLE OF SALTPOND
BAFFOUR OSEI              CHECK ON DEMOLITION AT EKUMFI
(ACCRA)
W. AWOTWI-THOMPSON        CHECK ON PROPERTY IMPACT OF PROJECT IT
M.G.S.S. (SALTPOND)       IS WELCOME.
NKRUMAH A.W.              HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT OF BIRIWA OUGHT TO
HAVE A CRITICAL LOOK AT, SINCE IT POSES
DANGEROUS NEGOTIATIONS FOR VEHICLES ON
THE ROAD.
JANET E. AMOAH
AMOO TENKORANG
BEN BAFFOUR               CHECK   ON   PROPERTY   SITUATED   AT
MFANTSEMAN SCHOOL.
ANNA BAFFOUR              CHECK ON PROPERTY SITUATED NEAR THE
STADIUM.
PASTOR JOHN KWOFIE        UNITED   FAITH   TABERNACLE   CHURCH,
MANKESSIM-AHWIAHA SIDE OF ROAD.



DOUGAN                   CHECK ON LAND PROPERTY AT MANKESSIM BY-
PASS ROUTE.
B.K.O. ESSIAM            HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT ON APPROACH TO
EISAM SETTLEMENT NEEDS TO BE CAREFULLY
LOOKED AT.
S.S. ARKORFUL
(P.W.D.)
KODWO ABAKA KUNTU        IN VIEW OF HIGH INCIDENCE OF ROAD
ACCIDENTS AT ABANDZE IN THE MFANTSEMAN
DISTRICT, AN EXISTING CULVERT IN THE
TOWN SHOULD BE DEVELOPED INTO AN UNDER
PASS TO FORESTALL KNOCKING DOWN OF
PEOPLE TO AND FROM THE BEACH, AND
SCHOOL CHILDREN.
ALSO MANKESSIM OLD ROAD SHOULD BE
ASPHALTED.
HENRY KOBINA SAM         DESPITE THE FACT THAT  "NO PARKING"
SIGNS HAVE BEEN INSTALLED AT KASOA,
(  MANY DRIVERS VIOLATE THIS. PEOPLE ALSO
CROSS THE BEHIND PARKED VEHICLES AND
CAUSE DANGER ON THE ROAD. IT IS
NECESSARY TO MAKE PROVISION TO IMPROVE
SAFETY AT KASOA.
J.A. EWUELZI-ANNAN       TO HAVE A GENERAL VIEW OF THE NEW
ALIGNMENT
(HARION ENG. LTD)
SALTPOND
SUPERINTENDENT
ANOKEY MENSAH (POLICE)
BENONY KWAKU ABAYE       BIRIWA LAND OWNER
HOUSE NO.C9 EGUABADO-
SALTPOND
NANA ASARE APPIAH IX
REGIONAL DIRECTOR(GHA)   FROM WINNEBA ROAD ABOUT, THE ROAD WILL
NEED TO BE RAISED TO CATER FOR THE
FREQUENT FLOODING OF THE ROAD.
OVERBURDEN ON TOP AT CULVERTS SHOULD BE
A MIN. OF 1M TO CATER FOR SETTLEMENT.
MAJOR ROCKSON            CHECK ON PROPERTY IMPACT OF NEW ROAD
EKUBAN, CORNELIUS        JUST FOR INFORMATION, ALIGNMENT O.K.
(DFR CAPE COAST)



/
JOE I. ALLAN              JUST FOR INFORMATION
MAMA EWUDIZE                    -DO-
REV. J.A. MORRISON
(METHODIST HIGH SCH.            -DO-
SALTPOND)
MASOOD TAMAL JOHNSON
SUSAN F. des BORDES        BY-PASS AT MANKESSIM MUST HAVE A
(DISTRICT CHIEF EXEC.)     (DIRECT) LINK ROAD TO MANKESSIM.
MR. E. MARTEY             TO CHECK ON RE-LOCATION OF PIPELINE
REG.DIRECTOR (GWSC)
CAPE COAST
MR. C.T. OGUAH
REG.ENGR. (GWSC)
CAPE COAST
REV.A.F. ANAKWA           CHECK ON PROPERTY IMPACT ON NEW ROAD
(TRAINING & COURSE
UNIT)
WILLIAM AMENYEANU JNR.   NOTHING IS LOCATED ON THE FLOOD PRONE
OAKFIELD FAIR CHILD FD.  AREA AROUND OKYEREKO DAM IN THE DESIGN
REV. JOSEPH NTSEFUL       QUIET LAUDABLE VENTURE BUT COMMUNITIES
AFFECTED    SHOULD    BE    ADEQUATELY
COMPENSATED.
G.W. NEIZER
REXFORD T. OKINE, NMP
(MOBILIZATION)
J.K. MENSAH               I HOPE IF THE AUTHORITIES WILL GIVE
COMPENSATION TO THE DEMOLISH HOUSES
THAT WILL BRING PEACE.
GEORGE DOTSEY             DETAILS AT WINNEBA ROUNDABOUT NOT
(MANKESSIM)              AVAILABLE
(GOVT. APPOINTEE)
DANIEL ODONKOR            HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT AT CH.103+050
(NMP) SALTPOND           SHOULD BE IMPROVED (FLATTENED)
ISAAC TENNYSON QUANSAH   THE ROAD NETWORK IS VERY ESSENTIAL BUT
PROVIDED THE INDIVIDUALS WHO WILL
SUFFER FROM DEMOLISHING OF THEIR
BUILDINGS WILL BE FULLY COMPENSATED-
IN ADDITIONAL, SOME OF THE PAVEMENTS
CAN BE STRAIGHTENED TO REDUCE THE
NUMBER   OF   THE   BUILDING   TO   BE
DEMOLISHED.
ROCKSON MENSAH            TO CHECK ON SAFETY OF HIS PROPERTY FROM
tur    r  tT7 or PTW MTW LT TrNl\TT



MRS. GLADYS OWUSU         PROPERTY IMPACT
G.K. ARTHUR               PROPERTY IMPPACT (ABANDZE)
(PENSIONEER)
F.E. ACKOM                TO SEE THE GENERAL OUTLAY AT ANOMABU
FRANK NEEQUAYE            PROPERTY IMPACT (BIRIWA)
(PETROL RETAILER)
JAMES MOXOW               1. ROAD FURNITURE FOR SAFETY PEDESTRIAN
- CROSSING AT ABANDZE (PREFERABLY
UNDERGROUND   TUNNEL   IN   VIEW   OF
FISHERMEN'S NEEDS).



t- -
GHAN.A HIGHWAY  AUTHORITY
Head Office
P.O. Box 1641
Accra.
9thAiagust, 1994
MESSRS KAMPSAX INTER -TIONAL A/St
P. 0. BOX 1143
STAMHOLMEN 112,
DK-2650 HVIDOVRE,
DENMARK.
COMMENTS
DISPLAY F DETAILED ENGINEERING DESIGNS
OF ACCRA- fAORANSA TRUNK ROAD AT SALTPOND
We submit herg1 ith our Comments on the written and oral
Petitions on the abo..- by the general public for your guidance
in preparation of thL final design.
It is noted that the written Petitions have already been
sent to you.
(B.L.T. SAKIBU)
CHIEF EXECUTIVEy
cc: Dy.Chief Executi.', (Dev.)
Director (S & D) %
Director of Plan:. 'g
Director of Conti ts.



(1)
AWUT- RADITIONAL COUNCIL
Our Ref. No. ATC.004 ..1.1/158                  Telephone No.3
Post Office Box I
AwutuBeraku, C/R.
Ghana, W/A.
27th July, 1994
Your Excellency,
PETITION
DISPLAY O.-: DETAILED ENGINEERING DESIGNS
OF  P..:GRA-YAMORANSA TRUNK ROAD
The attention ._f the President of the Awutu Traditional
Council has been dra:.!'  to "Public Hearing for Accra-Yamoransa
Trunk Road, at Teach.- Training Courses, Saltpond.
In view of th_ reconstructional work on the above trunk
road yet to begin, I am directed to appeal to you to construct
a Roundabout in Awutn to replace the present 'staggered junction'
to ease possible a(.- idents which have been occurring at the
place.
Since the road as constructed about forty years (40) ago,
the number of fatal acnidents recorded by the Police, Awutu, will
be about forty one (41).
I am, further directed to state that this staggered
junction links on the North with Obrachire, Bawjiase, Asamankesi
etc., and in the South with Senya Beraku, Fete, Ojobi, Winneba
etc.,
Yours faitlfully,
(                                                  (SGD.) MARVEL ANDOH
AG. REGISTRAR
THE MINISTER OF ROA :.- AND HIGHWAYS
P.O. BOX M.45
ACCRA.
Copy to - The District Chief Executive
P.O. Box 1, Winneba.
Hon. J.E. Nkrumah, MP
Awutu-Senya Constituency
Awutu.
G.H.A. COMMENTS
Considering the prest*nt volume of traffic at Awutu Junction, we
suggest the propo_ed design,   "minor/major intersection with
storage lanes" should stand especially so when the minor roads
have been re-aligned to remove the stagge-r effect.



(2)
NANA EKUA AMISSAH II
REGENT OF GOMOA DABANYIN
C.R.
27th July, 1994
Sir,
RE: PETITION - ACCRA/YAMORANSA TRUNK ROAD
In response to the rublication in one of our local dailies on
25/7/95 I wish to pr.-sent this my humble petition to you.
During the previous construction of Accra-Takoradi Trunk Road,
the government of G:?..ia presented us with an amount of G207.2/-
being compensation izr 20.71 Acres of our land used.  This is
contained in Lands  ':-retariat letter dated 26th March, 1962 ref.
C        No. No.35910/2.
I am therefore on m-  ehalf and on behalf of my people (Dabanyin
Aboradze Family) a-,_ling to you to work out from your detailed
design the extent of damage to be made on our land and the
gubsequent compensation due to us.
Thanks for your usu.< co-operation.
Yours faithfully,
(SGD) R.T.P.
NANA EKUA AMISSAH II
THE HON. MINISTER,
MINISTRY OF ROADS & HIGHWAYS
ACCRA.
cc: THE PARA:4OUNT CHIEF
GOMOA A. AAKO TRAD. AREA
(                     GOMOA Fi'nADZIE.
G.H.A. COMMENTS
This has no bearing  n the design.
The G.H.A. will de>-  with this.



(3
Regional Chairman
G.P.R.T.U. of T.U.C.
Regional Secretariat
Cape Coast.
27/7/94
G.P.R.T.U. OF T.U.C.
}ZE(IONAL SECRETARIAT PROPOSAL
I am directed by the executives Regional Council to submit
below proposal for your action.
1. Removal of Pipe Line at the above-mentioned Lorry Park
Yamoransa.
(N                                                   (SGD.) J.K. NKANSAH
REGIONAL CHAIRMAN
MINISTRY OF ROADS AND HIGHWAYS
GHANA HIGHWAY AUTHC:7'TY
ACCRA.
G.H.A. COMMENTS
The project ends ai. Biriwa.   Yamoransa junction is therefore,
outside the scope t.: this project.
(4)
SUGGESTION
That Speed clamps bt: -onstructed at such towns where often people
are knocked down anrc killed.
This is example in Nigeria as I am told.
(MASON JAMDU JOHNSON)
REGIONAL MANAGER
AHMADIYYA MUSLIM EDItCATIONAL UNIT
28/7/94.
G.H.A. COMMENTS
Speed control ramp- -ill not be convenient for this primary road
since they can cau   serious damage to vehicles and accidents.
It is suggested yr  -onsider the use of rumble strips together
with adequate war.    signs in the towns



The following are a.s.' our comments on the various issues raised
verbally by various petitioners:
a)            DIRECT ACCESS FROM MANKESSIM BY-PASS
TO MANKESSIM
With the provision (.f the two access routes into the main road
there is no need for a 3rd direct link.
b)                        KASOA JUNCTION
In this rural set-u-s: zny provision of traffic signalization short
of automation will frustrate motorists.
Also since the mir -- roads are staggered, movement to and from
them will be hazar ..s in signalization.
Therefore the proi.j.ed rotary junction should be maintained.
However it is suggested that the smaller radius of the ellipse
should be increase-i so that deflection of the main traffic into
the rotary is achi-v.ed for safety purposes.
Further, the lay- :_ should be provided with separators of at
least 2m to keep t._. main stream traffic flowing freely.
c)                       WEIJA JUNCTION
Weija Junction which is located in an urban area should be
converted to a signalised 'T' junction and in the process take
particular note of storagesWiiF pha_sing times for left turning
movements.
It is noted tha...  Capacity analysis you submitted  for the
junction justify `gnalisation at the year of opening.
d)                          JUNCTIONS
Please ensure ade<,;. - te visibility and proper warning ;igns at all
junctions.
e)                    HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT
Please ensure th&r. minimum curve radii for the design speed are
attained in-all c. -ves.



PUBLIC HEARING ON TAMALE - BOLGATANGA ROAD PROJECT
NOVEMBER, 1994
PETITIONER               No   COMMENTS / PETITIONS / SUGGESTIONS                            G. H. A. COMMENTS
RICHARD ATAAREMS                 1    Request for Over-head Bridge at the major towns               Provide rumble - strips and zebra - crossings in addition to
G.W.S.C. TAMALE                        along the proposed route to separate pedestrian traffic from  the proposed road signs in the towns.
vehicular traffic, especially on market days
BOYE BUADIE                      2    Request for Bicycle lanes in major towns and through
NORRIP, TAMALE                         Bolgatanga township.                                         Proposed road shoulder width of 2.Om should be increased
to 3.Om to give additional space for bicycle traffic in the
towns along the route.
E. NYIEKU - AGYEPONG             3    Request for 2.5m - 3.Om road width shoulder to accomodate
A & N GHANEM  , TAMALE                 bigger trucks off the road.                                  The proposed general 2.Om road shoulder for this road is
adequate.
G.G. ABAWANA                     4    Raise road level between km 137.00 and 137.788 to prevent
VRA, TAMALE                            similar flooding incident.                                   Since the main Volta River Bridge is parmanent, the
hydrological situation should be checked and additional
relief culverts should be provided on both approaches of
the bridge, if necessary.
ADOMBIRE SOLOMON                 5    Suggestion that Axle loads plying the road should be checked.
SOLOMON                                Existing culverts should be replaced.                        In the proposed design, some 600mm diameter pipe
CONSTRUCTION, KUMASI                                                                                culverts have been earmarked for extension, these should
be replaced by 900mm diameter pipe culverts.
Overloaded trucks will be checked by G.H.A. when the
proposed road becomes operational.
IL-L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PUBLIC HEARING ON TAMALE - BOLGATANGA ROAD PROJECT
NOVEMBER, 1994
PETITIONER               No   COMMENTS / PETITIONS / SUGGESTIONS                            G. H. A. COMMENTS
7    Request for an Environmental Impact Assessment on project.    This assignment was not part of the T.O.R.
S.O SAAKA
ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECT. COUNCIL
P.O.BOX 80. BOLGA
8   Horizontal S-curve at St. 109 + 800 quite sharp on approach
to Walewale from Bolga direction.                            Since the S-curve is in town with speed limit of 50 kph, it
MASSOUD                                                                                             can be retained.
9   Suggestion that adequate compensation should be paid to
personnel affected by the road.                              G.H.A. will deal with this
CARL ADONGO,
BOX 177, BOLGA                   10   Request for bicycle lane in Bolgatanga town to prevent
accidents. Also there should be a dual - carriageway in the  i) Road shoulders should be increased from 2.0m to 3.Om in
ABU MOHAMMED                           proposed route passing through Bolga since right of way has  Bolga town to cater for mixed
BOX 246, BOLGA                         already been acquired.                                         non - motorised traffic.
ii) G.H.A. will consider the dual - carriageway as a
second stage development in future.
11   Suggestion that hydraulic capacities of bridges and culverts
should be very adequate.                                     The hydraulic capacities of all proposed culverts should be
SUMBO RAYMOND                                                                                       supported by proper scientific analysis.
BOLGA TECH. INST.
BOX 295' BOLGA.
12   Request ftor a,leiite parking space at Diari and Walewale for
Heavy Goodti %chicle,. which park there overnight.           i) Investigate if parking of trucks is considerable and
BOAKYE DANKWA BOADI              13   Enough road %ignt thould he provided at Wulugu to warn of    increase length of proposed lay-by if necessary.
GHANA NEW AGENCY                      the presence of li%etock in the area.                        ii) It is noted that no provision has been made for
BOX 14, BOLGA.                                                                                      information sign for livestock to guide motorists.
Please provide this at Wulugu and other necessary points.
2



PUBLIC HEARING ON TAMALE - BOLGATANGA ROAD PROJECT
NOVEMBER, 1994
PETITIONER              No   COMMENTS l PETITIONS / SUGGESTIONS                          G. 14. A. COMMENTS
WUNDOW  YIDANA                  14   There is a junction at Gbimsi village which has not been   This is not evident on the drawings .
(GBIMSI)                             indicated in the design. It is within the Horizontal curve in the  We suspect poor visibility. Provide rumble strips
NAMA TIA (GBIMSI)                    village. Because of its position, a lot of accidents do occur  together with adequate warning informatory roAd
there . This is around STA. 114 + 700.                     signs.
15    Request for Walewale lorry station to be designed as part of
the project.                                              i) This is a matter for the District Assembly
GABRIEL AVUYEM                  16   Also the road passing through the town should be raised    ii) Please check the hydrological conditions to
SOCIAL WELFARE                       adequately to curtail the flow of rain water across the road.  ensure that the road is not overtopped.
WALEWALE.
17   Request for dual carriageway for Walewale town in order to    i) Dual carriageway will be considered as second
serve its purpose as the major commercial centre serving the    stage of development.
adjoining towns.                                          ii) Parking lanes should be provided on both sides
DISTRICT OFFICE                 18   Adequate parking areas be provided to serve the purpose of  of the road instead of the small proposed lay-byes.
WALEWALE                             the transit centre the town is currently doing.
19   Lay-byes at Nasia should be separated from facing one another  i) Consider the possibility of re-locating the lay-
to avoid pedestrian (hawkers) accidents.                   byes to achieve the required safety.
20   At Nasia village there is an accident spot at the intersection  ii) We suspect poor visibility. Provide rumble strips
within the horizontal curve.                              together with adequate warning informatory road
ALEX OSMAN                                                                                      signs.
NATIONAL MOBILIZATION
PROG.                          21   Attention must be drawn to the flood area between           i) This is not evident from the drawings as the
NASIA                                Sta. 113+532 and Sta. 114.105                              nearest valley is at Sta.114+420. Please check the
22   At Wulugu village the proposed lay-bye is at a junction. this is  hydrological conditions to ensure that the road is
at Sta. 123 +206                                           not overtopped.
ii) Consider the possibility of re-locating the lay-
Y. E. YAKUBA                                                                                    byes to achieve the required safety.
(SAYOO-NABA)                         Request for the proposed alignment to be aligned to the left of
23  the existing one, at Wulugu, to avoid the sacred village shrine.   Please check and shift road if necessary.
BEN D. YURIZAH
WULUGU
3



PUBLIC HEARING ON TAMALE - BOLGATANGA ROAD PROJECT
NOVEMBER, 1994
PETITIONER              No   COMMENTS / PETITIONS / SUGGESTIONS                    G. H. A. COMMENTS
MATTHEW  ABARICHE              24   Attention is drawn to the rather sharp horizontal curve at  Investigate the possibility of replacing the two
(NCCE), WALEWALE                     Sta. 123 + 100. The place is an accident spot.        curves between Sta. 122+980 and Sta. 123+248
with one curve as a safety measure to remove the
bottleneck.
At the same time provide rumble strips together
with adequate warning signs.
25   Replace culvert no. 247 at km 135+310
PRINCE ALI LAWSON                                                                          It is not evident from the drawings the size of the
M.O.H. BOLGA.                                                                              existing culvert . But 1 No. 900mm pipe culvert
has been proposed.The hydraulic adequacy of this
must be ascertained properly.
J. K. NYAKOTEY                 26   Raise road level between km 137 +250 and km 138 +500   The hydrological situation should be checked and
G. H. A., BOLGA                      to prevent similar flooding incident.                 additional relief culverts should be provided on
both approaches of the bridge. If necessary.
27   In towns, the asphaltic concrete should be extended from   ii Provide rumble strips and zebra-crossings in
kerb to kerb with covered "U" drains and pedestrian  addition to the proposed road signs in the towns.
walkways as well as Avenue trees.                    Also provide 200mm kerb to separate the vehicular
28   Bicycle lanes should be provided in towns due to its  traffic and the non-motorised traffic which is
extensive use by the natives in this part of the country.    substantial at Bolga.
Further provide covered "U" drains in Bolga.
The road at this section between sta. 83+500 to
ALOGLGA MAXIMUS                      Bore hole test must be conducted for flood prone areas    85+00 has been raised by approximately Im to
ABAGNA APUKO                   29   around low-lying areas and Babogo.                     take care of the flood. Please ascertain
C/O ICOUR BOX, 70                                                                          hydraulically that this is sufficient.
TONO-NAVRONGO
4



PUBLIC HEARING ON TAMALE - BOLGATANGA ROAD PROJECT
NOVEMBER, 1994
PETITIONER                       No   COMMENTS / PETITIONS / SUGGESTIONS                 G.H A.COMMENTS
J.J. AYOMBIL                           Affiliated Department i.e. AESC, PWD, IDA,        i) The public hearing was just for that purpose and is
REGIONAL ADM.                          DFR, should be invited for their necessary        sufficient.
BOX 50, BOLGATANGA                     comments and suggestions.                        ii ) Grassing of the embankment slopes should be
30   Request for grass (Bahama) to check erosion on    considered.
embankment and steps should be taken to reclaim    iii) The treatment of of borrow pits has been specified in
borrow pits.                                      standard specification for roads and bridge works and will
31                                                     be taken care of, during after construction.
Provide rumble strips and zebra-crossings in addition to
HENRY BAGA                             Introduce zebra-crossing near schools where the   the proposed road signs around schools.
ENV. HEALTH DEV.                       road passes.
MIN OF HEALTH
P.O. BOX 8                       32
NAVRONGO
5



PUBLIC HEARING ON TAMALE-BOLGATANGA ROAD PROJECT
LIST OF NAMES OF PARTICIPANTS WHO REQUESTED FOR DUAL CARRIAGEWAY AND BICYCLE
LANE THROUGH BOLGATANGA AND WALEWALE TOWNSHIP
NAME                                        ADDRESS
Boye Buadie                      NORRIP, Tamale
Issaka Coodman                   Tamale
H. Horantegy                     Dept. of Feeder Rds, Box 303, Bolga
S. A. Bangfu                     FASCOM (UR) Ltd. Box 132, Bolga
C.T. Bugase                      P.O. Box 1, Navrongo, UER
Joe Abaane                       GBC, Box 43, Bolga
Abu Mohammed                     P.O. Box 246, Bolga
P.C. Fynn                        S.T.C. Bolga
Hannah Cemp-Tapany               G.N.A, Bolga
Dominic Akudago                  N.F.E.D. Box 110, Bolga
William Ayambire                 Box 305, Bolga
Atintono Samuel                  P.O. Box 305, Bolga
David K. Baako                   Ghana Cotton Comp. Ltd. Bolga
Anaba Sylvester/Anafo Robert     c/o Catholic Mission, Box 5, Bolga



PUBLIC HEARING ON TAMALE-BOLGATANGA ROAD PROJECT
THE FOLLOWING LIST OF PARTICIPANTS ALSO VISITED THE EXHIBITION.
NAME                                         ADDRESS
K.A. Dauda                       MFEP, Tamale
J.A. Ashley                      DFR, Tamale
Henry Alhassan                   Joumalist, Accra
Mohammed I. Alhassan             NFED, Tamale
Sackeyfio Alex N.A                D.F.R. Box 425, Tamale
L.D. Luri                        Reg. Co-ordinating Director
Chamogo Brehim                   Min. of Agric, Box 14, Tamale
Francis A. Owusu                 Survey Dept. Box 280, Bolga
Cecilia Kpieob                   P.O. Box 144 Bolga
E.N. Nortey                      G.W.S.C. Bolga
A.T. Bapnopeleh                  Town & Country Planning Dept. Bolga
Robert Abuge                     AESC, Bolga
B.G. Lugu-Zuri                   ASIP, Bolga
F.M. Gbekor                      P.O. Box 128, Bolga
Atenyose Ignatuius                G.W.S.C. Box 24, Bolga
Patrick Akake                    Parliament House, Accra
D.D. Ziba                        Walewale
Issifu Robert                    Walewale
Issaka Amidu                     Walewale
Hon. B.B. Saibu                  MP for Walewale
Tianaazra                        Walewale
Alhaji Safiano                   Walewale
Francis Asakiya                  Walewale
Alhaji Musa                      Walewale
Alhaji Mumuni Haruna             Walewale
Karimn Nachina                   Wulugu Sec. Sch.



PUBLIC HEARING ON TAMALE-BOLGATANGA ROAD PROJECT
THE FOLLOWING LIST OF PARTICIPANTS ALSO VISITED THE EXHIBITION.
NAME                                         ADDRESS
Nabila Sulemanna                 Wulugu Sec. Sch.
S.Y. Angyagdem                   M.O.H., P.M.B., Bolga
Olivia Achuila                   Binaba H. Centre, Bawku West District, Zebilla
J.B. Kwogyenga                   Reg. Educ. Office, Box 110, Bolga
El-osman Alhassan                Reg. Educ. Office, Box 110, Bolga
J.B. Aga                         P.O. Box 110, Bolga
Victoria A. Adimazoya            Sacred Heart Kindergarten
Gertrude Azigave                 Town & Country Planning, Box 144, Bolga
Lazarus Anondee                  Catholic Mission, Box 5, Bolga
A.D. Buuncain                    S.H.C. Box 185, Bolga
David Awum                       GPRTU of TUC, Bolga
Ignatuis P. Allo                 G.E.S. Navrongo
S. Kofi-Tey                      S.T.C- Bolga



