Page  1
                                                CONFORMED COPY
                                          CREDIT NUMBER 2858 GH
                  Development Credit Agreement
               (Highway Sector Investment Program)
                             between
                        REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                               and
              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated July 26, 1996
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2858 GH
                  DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 26 , 1996, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated February 9,
1996 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to implement the Borrower's five-year, medium-
term (1996-2000) Road Sector Expenditure Program (the Program) and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
and
      (C)   the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                 General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "AMISU" means the Accounting and Management Information
System Unit, a unit established within MRH vested with the responsi-
bility of managing the financial aspects of the Project;
      (b)   "cedis" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (c)   "CML" means the Central Materials Laboratory owned and
operated by GHA (as hereinafter defined);
      (d)   "DUR" means the Department of Urban Roads within MRH;
      (e)   "DFR" means the Department of Feeder Roads within MRH;
      (f)   "GHA" means the Ghana Highway Authority established pursuant
to the Borrower's N.R.C. Decree 298, as amended;
      (g)   "Environmental Mitigation Plan" means the environmental
mitigation plan, acceptable to the Association, to be adopted by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, detailing the
measures proposed to address the adverse environmental impact of
investments under the Project;
      (h)   "Implementation Manual" means the manual of procedures to
be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
      (i)   "MRH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Roads and Highways;
      (j)   "MRH Advisory Board" means the Board established pursuant
to Section 39 of the Civil Service Law (PNDC Law 327), whose functions
include, inter alia, the management and administration of the Road
Fund (as hereinafter defined);
      (k)   "National Road Safety Committee" means the committee
established under the Ministry of Transport and Communications with
responsibility for road safety matters;
      (l)   "NDPC" means the Borrower's National Development Planning
Commission established pursuant to the National Development Planning
Commission Act, 1994 (Act No. 479) for the purpose of coordinating all
the development planning processes within the territory of the Borrower;
      (m)   "Project Account" means either of the accounts referred to
in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
      (n)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated April 12, 1992 and June 16, 1992 between the
Borrower and the Association;
      (o)   "Road Fund" means the fund established by the Borrower
pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Development Credit Agreement (the Road
Page  3
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Credit No. 1601 GH)) dated
June 24, 1985 between the Borrower and the Association, as amended to
the date of this Agreement (and as further amended herein); and
      (p)   "Special Account" means either of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                           ARTICLE II
                           The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-
seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 67,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts (Special Account A
for MRH and Special Account B for GHA) in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, Special Account A and Special Account B shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Page  4
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 1 and July 1, commencing July 1,
2006 and ending January 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet
due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid.
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                           ARTICLE III
                    Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and of the Program and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
through MRH and GHA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate technical, engineering, management and environmental
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitations thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
Page  5
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   open and maintain in cedis, in a commercial bank, two
Project Accounts, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, in the names of GHA and MRH, respectively, to be used by GHA
and MRH exclusively for the purposes of the Project;
      (b)   deposit into said Project Accounts initial amounts of
$250,000 equivalent for GHA and $50,000 equivalent for MRH; and
      (c)   thereafter deposit the remaining part of its contributions,
quarterly in advance, in the amounts to be determined by the Borrower
and the Association in accordance with the provisions of the Implemen-
tation Manual.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1996,
establish and thereafter maintain a budgeting and accounting system,
satisfactory to the Association, for monitoring contracts under the
Program.
                           ARTICLE IV
                       Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section, including those for the
                  Road Fund and the Special Accounts, audited for each
                  fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                  payment out of a Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
Page  6
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                  the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
                  upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE V
                   Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date of
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will
be carried out;
      (b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the disestablishment of the Road Fund
or for the suspension of its activities; and
      (c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of GHA or for the suspension of its functions.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified, namely, the
events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                           ARTICLE VI
                   Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the  Borrower has adopted the Environmental Mitigation
Plan, satisfactory to the Association, and has appointed an environ-
mental specialist, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower has adopted the Implementation Manual, satis-
factory to the Association, specifying, inter alia, performance
indicators, procedures and other arrangements for the purpose of
implementation of the Project;
      (c)   the Borrower has appointed the members of, and inaugurated,
the MRH Advisory Board; and
      (d)   the Borrower has deposited the initial deposits into the
Project Accounts referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VII
           Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra, Ghana
            Cable address:               Telex:
                  ECONOMICON             2205 MIFAEPGH
                  Accra
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:               Telex:
                  INDEVAS                248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC)
                                          64145 (WUI) or
                                         197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                  By /s/ Ekwow Spio-Garbrah
                                      Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                        Regional Vice President
                                                         Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
            Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                               Credit            % of
                              Allocated      Expenditures
                            (Expressed in        to be
      Category             SDR Equivalent)     Financed
(1)   Civil works:
Page  8
      (a)   roads and bridges 39,980,000      100% of foreign
                                              expenditures and
                                              70% of local
                                              expenditures
      (b)   other              3,660,000      100% of foreign
                                              expenditures and
                                              90% of local
                                              expenditures
(2)   Equipment,                              100% of foreign
      spare parts,                            expenditures and
      vehicles and                            90% of local
      materials for:                          expenditures
      (a)   GHA                4,610,000
      (b)   MRH                1,290,000
(3)   Consultants'                            100%
      services and
      training for:
      (a)   GHA                7,900,000
      (b)   MRH                4,210,000
(4)   Operating costs for:                    100% until
                                              June 30, 1998
                                              and 70% thereafter
      (a)   GHA                  680,000
      (b)   MRH                  550,000
(5)   Refunding of               510,000      Amounts due
      Project                                 pursuant to
      Preparation                             Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                 of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated              4,410,000
                              __________
      TOTAL                   67,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means the expenses incurred with
respect to Project management and monitoring, including office supplies,
vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries
of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a) civil works under contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent, (b)
goods and services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding
Page  9
$100,000 equivalent, (c) services of individual consultants under
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and (d) all operating costs,
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                   Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to increase
economic growth, thereby promoting poverty alleviation through the
reduction of vehicle operating costs by: (a) maintaining, rehabilitating
and reconstructing roads, and (b) ensuring sustained improvements in the
road sector by: (i) developing and implementing cost recovery policies,
(ii) building indigenous capacity in the public and private sectors, and
(iii) improving financial management control.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
1.    Carrying out of a road maintenance program consisting of about 990
km of roads.
2.    Carrying out of a road rehabilitation program consisting of about
90 km of roads in central and eastern regions of the territory of the
Borrower.
3.    Rehabilitation of bridges in Brong Ahafo and other selected regions
in the territory of the Borrower.
4.    Carrying out of road safety improvement work including minor
realignment, as well as installation of warning signs, appropriate road
markings and speed-breakers.
5.    Carrying out engineering design and feasibility studies for about
2,600 km of trunk-road improvement works and other future highways
projects.
Part B:     Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1.    Strengthening professional capacities of MRH to enable it to advise
and assist the different road agencies and the Road Fund in financial
planning for multi-year contracts, preparation of annual budgets and
monitoring and control of annual expenditures.
2.    Acquisition and installation of permanent weigh-bridge stations at
five locations, and acquisition of transport vehicles, office equipment,
computers and photocopiers for MRH.
3.    Installation of a Management Information System (MIS) within GHA
and training of GHA staff in its application.
4.    Development of a bridge condition and maintenance system within
GHA.
5.    Training of GHA staff in the management and monitoring of road
maintenance contracts, including all the relevant environmental aspects
of such contract works.
6.    Carrying out studies on: (a) the privatization of quarries,
workshops and ferry operations, (b) staffing needs of GHA, and (c) axle
load regulations.
7.    Acquisition of road maintenance and communications equipment, and
vehicles and motorcycles for GHA, and material testing equipment for CML.
8.    Carrying out a review of the systems of accounting of MRH and GHA
and establishing appropriate procedures and practices for the Special
Accounts and other accounts for the Project, including the Road Fund.
9.    Carrying out by NDPC of field studies, research, organization of
Page  10
workshops, training and the preparation of a five-year development plan.
10.   Strengthening of the capacity of private domestic construction
industries through the training of local contractors, inter alia, in
the areas of business management, finance, accounting, and planning and
programming of field operations.
11.   Construction of new training center at East Legon in Accra
including acquisition of equipment and material.
12.   Construction of an annex building at CML.
13.   Construction of about 25 additional housing units at the GHA
regional and district offices.
14.   Strengthening the capacity of the National Road Safety Committee in
implementing road safety measures through: (a) carrying out of a review
of its function and composition, and (b) provision of technical advisory
services.
                              * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                           SCHEDULE 3
              Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1996 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1
thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
3.    Dispute Review Board
      Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent
or more shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set
forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in para-
graph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
4.    Grouping of Contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000
or more each.
5.    Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
      contractors
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of
the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
6.    Preshipment Inspection
      Goods procured in accordance with this Part A shall be exempt from
pre-shipment inspection for price.
Page  11
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per con-
tract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $42,700,000 equivalent,
and goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of
the Guidelines.
3.    Direct Contracting
      Spare parts and accessories which are of a proprietary nature and
costing $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, shortlists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not
apply to: (a) the employment of consulting firms under contracts
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) the employ-
ment of individuals under contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior review by the
Page  12
Association shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assign-
ments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association,
(d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                     Implementation Program
Overall Coordination
1.    The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the
procedures set out in the Implementation Manual, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate
or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association,
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.    MRH shall be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project
including, inter alia, overseeing the sector policy reform and coordinat-
ing the sector-wide expenditure subprograms among GHA, DUR and DFR,
coordinating financial assistance to the Program and ensuring the
restructuring as well as smooth functioning of the Road Fund.
3.    AMISU shall assist MRH in the financial and budgetary management
of the road sector expenditures under the Program and shall be
responsible, in particular, for establishing and streamlining all
accounting, monitoring and reporting procedures in MRH, GHA, DUR and
DFR, as well as managing a cofinancier-specific information system.
4.    For the purpose of carrying out its responsibilities under this
Project, MRH shall continue to maintain, until completion of the
Project, the position of Program Coordinator within its organization.
The Borrower shall appoint an accounting consultant, in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, whose
functions shall include, inter alia: (i) reviewing the accounting system
of GHA and MRH; and (ii) establishing procedures and practices for the
Special Accounts as well as the project accounts, statement of expendi-
tures and Road Fund-related accounts.
5.    MRH shall:
      (a)   furnish to the Association timely estimates of its projected
annual Project expenditures; and
      (b)   develop and apply budgeting and accounting systems, accept-
able to the Association, in each one of its agencies to monitor the
performance of each contract.
6.    The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30, 1996, appoint the accounting
consultant referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and (b) by
November 30, 1996, appoint independent auditors referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Quarterly Reports
7.    The Borrower shall, commencing on September 30, 1996:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association, for its review and
comments, quarterly reports on the progress of Project implementation,
including:
            (i)  procurement and disbursements,
           (ii)  progress on civil works, supply of goods, technical
                 studies and institutional accomplishments,
          (iii)  trunk road sector related issues,
Page  13
           (iv) contributions made by the Borrower from its budget, and
            (v)  the status of the Road Fund; and
      (b)   carry out the Project for the quarters in question, taking
into account the comments of the Association.
Annual Review
8.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   not later than October 31 in each year, furnish to the
Association for review and comments a draft annual work program and
training program and supporting budget for its road sector, including
the road works to be carried out under Part A of the Project, for the
succeeding calendar year;
      (b)   not later than November 30 in each year: (i) review with
the Association the documents referred to in paragraph (a) above, (ii)
identify implementation issues and propose appropriate solutions, and
(iii) update Project timetables and performance indicators;
      (c)   not later than December 31 in each year, furnish to the
Association the work program and budget referred to in paragraph (a)
hereof, as such program and budget shall have been revised to the
satisfaction of the Association in the course of the review referred
to in paragraph (b) hereof and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, carry out the Project in the year in question on the
basis of the said work program and budget as so revised; and
      (d)   not undertake any new investment in its road sector not
specified in the Program without prior consultation with the Association.
Midterm Review
9.    (a)   The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1998, carry
out, jointly with the Association, a midterm review of the progress made
in the carrying out of the Project.
      (b)   The review shall cover, inter alia, (i) the implementation
of measures designed to strengthen the financial reporting, monitoring,
accounting and auditing capabilities of the different agencies of the
Borrower involved in the implementation of the Project; (ii) the overall
progress made in the Project implementation, (iii) the performance of
MRH and GHA as executing agencies for the Project; (iv) the adequacy of
the Borrower's counterpart funding as well as the level of budgetary
allocations and actual expenditure for routine maintenance; (v) the
working of the Road Fund; and (vi) the need for redesign and restructur-
ing of Project components experiencing implementation difficulties.
      (c)   Not later than one month prior to such midterm review, the
Borrower shall, through MRH, furnish to the Association, for its review
and comments, a report covering items specified in paragraph 9 (b)
above, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in complying
with Project implementation pursuant to the terms of this Agreement
and recommendations resulting from the studies conducted under the
Project.
      (d)   Promptly after completing such review, the Borrower shall
carry out the recommendations emanating from the said  review, as
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Road Works
10.   GHA shall:
      (a)   adopt economic criteria, acceptable to the Association,
(including a minimum of 15% economic rate of return) in the selection
of road sections to be included in the road maintenance program
referred to in the Implementation Manual. GHA shall ensure that no
road project under the Program would be undertaken unless and until the
Page  14
results of adequate engineering studies including accurate bills of
quantities and cost estimates are available. Roads design standards and
specifications shall be agreed between GHA and the selected firm before
execution of the engineering studies;
      (b)   establish arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, to
ensure: (i) diligent control of cost and duration of civil works
contracts under the Program, (ii) that cumulative variation orders for
any road contract under the Program shall not exceed a maximum of 25
percent of the original contract ceiling, and (iii) that contractors
implementing projects under the Program are paid in regular installments
for road works completed in order to facilitate their proper cash flow;
and
      (c)   in order to streamline GHA's operations and improve its cost
effectiveness, the Borrower shall cause GHA to reduce the number of its
staff work force to no more than 3,100 by December 31, 1998. Thereafter,
the Borrower and the Association shall jointly review the staffing levels
of GHA taking into account the implementation of the Borrower's policy
of contracting out road maintenance works.
11.   The Borrower shall, not later than August 1, 1996, issue the
invitation to bid to prequalified contractors for the rehabilitation
program to be carried out under Part A.2 of the Project, in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Road Fund
12.   The Borrower shall, not later than August 1, 1996, take appro-
priate measures, satisfactory to the Association, to restructure the
Road Fund with the objective of enabling the Road Fund to operate on
sound accounting principles for the Road Fund to function effectively.
Said measures shall include, inter alia: (a) establishing a Road Fund
Secretariat under the MRH Advisory Board to manage and administer the
Road Fund, (b) ensuring that the private sector is adequately represented
on the MRH Advisory Board, (c) increasing revenues paid into the Road
Fund through road user charges, and (d) ensuring that the Road Fund
shall be used exclusively to finance routine and periodic maintenance
of roads.
13.   The Borrower shall appoint, by August 1, 1996, a qualified
accountant for the Road Fund, in accordance with Section II of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
Environmental Assessment
14.   In carrying out Part B.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not
later than four months after the Effectiveness Date, cause GHA to
appoint three engineers or technicians, within its planning division,
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, to assist with
the environmental impact assessment and monitoring.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                        Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of Special
Account A, Categories (2) (b), (3) (b) and (4) (b), and in the case of
Special Account B, Categories (1), (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4) (a), set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means each of the amounts,
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent, in
Page  15
the case of Special Account A, to $250,000, and in the case of Special
Account B, to $1,000,000, provided, however, that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for:
            (i)  Special Account A shall be limited to an amount equi-
                 valent to $125,000 until the aggregate amount of with-
                 drawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount
                 of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
                 the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
                 Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
                 of $2,000,000; and for
            (ii) Special Account B shall be limited to an amount equi-
                 valent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of
                 withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
                 amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
                 into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
                 the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
                 equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the respective Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the respective Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the respective Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits into the Special Accounts of an amount or amounts which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation for the Special
Account for which the deposit is requested. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account in question
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the respective Special Accounts,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                  for deposits into the respective Special Accounts at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
                  which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each
                  such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower,  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
                  into the respective Special Accounts such amount as the
                  Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                  shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the respective Special Accounts for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
Page  16
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account in
question;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, less
the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the respective Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the
Special Account in question shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in such Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures under such
categories.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account in question (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Association into such Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
