Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15192
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT OF ZIMBABWE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2939-ZIM)
DECEMBER 21, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of October 31, 1995))
During Project Appraisal
1 US$        =     Z$1.67
Current
1US$         =     Z$8.63
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Meter (m)        =      3.28 feet (ft)
I Kilorneter (km)    =    0.62 miles (mi)
I Square Km (km2)         0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
I metric ton (mt)    =    2,205 pounds (lb)
I liter (1)        =      0.264 gallons (gal)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB         =      African Development Bank
CMED         =      Central Mechanical Equipment Department
DSR          =      Department of States Road
ERR          =      Economic Rate of Return
GOZ          =      Government of Zimbabwe
ICR          =      Implementation Completion Report
MoTE         =      Ministry of Transport and Energy
OLS          =      Operators License System
SAR          =      Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2939-ZIM)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .....................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................i
A. Introduction .............................................................i
B. The Project and its Objectives .....................................i
C. Implementation Experience and Results ....................................                                                  ii
D. Lessons Learned and Future Operations ....................................                                                  iii
E. Project Sustainability ....................................                                                                iii
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................I1
A. Introduction ...................................I
B. Project Background ...................................I
C. Evaluation of Project Objectives ...................................2
D. Achievement of Project Objectives ...................................2
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................5
F. Project Sustainability ..................................5
G. Bank Performance ..................................6
H. Borrower 's Performance ...................................6
1. Assessment of Outcome ...................................7
J. Future Operation ...................................8
K Key Lesson Learned ...................................8
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART II           STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1:          Summary of Assessments
Table 2:          Related Bank Loans
Table 3:          Project Timetable
Table 4:          Loan Disbursements:
(Cumulative Estimated and Actual)
Table 5a:         Project Costs
Table 5b:         Project Financing
Table 6:          Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7:          Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 8:          Bank Resources: Missions
Table 9:          Indicators for Proiect Implementation
APPENDICES
A.                Completion Mission Aide-Memoire
B.                Government of Zimbabwe - Evaluation
C.                Economic Rates of Return
D.                Map



ZIMBABWE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2939-ZIM)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Highway
Project in Zimbabwe, for which loan 2939-ZIM in the arnount of US$32.7 million was
approved on May 10, 1988 and made effective on May 4, 1989. The loan was closed on
June 30, 1995. The undisbursed balance of US$7.6 million was canceled on November
29, 1995.
2.    The ICR was prepared by Asamanetch Fantaye, Operations Analyst, from the
Energy and Infrastructure Division of the Southern Africa Department. It was reviewed
by Imogene Jensen, Task Manager; Jeffrey Racki, Division Chief, Energy and
Infrastructure Division; and Jacomina De Regt, Acting Operations Adviser, Southern
Africa Department.
3.    Preparation of the ICR was started during the Bank's completion mission in
October 1995. It is based on data provided by the Department of State Roads (DSR) of
the Ministry of Transport and Energy (MoTE) and material in the project file. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the
project. The Aide-Memoire from the ICR mission is attached as Appendix A and the
Government's contribution is attached as Appendix B.






ZIMBABWE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2939-ZIM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Introduction
1.    The Bank's involvement in the highway sub-sector in Zinmbabwe began soon after
the country's independence in 1980 with the First Highway Project. The Project was
approved in May 1983 and completed in January 1989. The purpose of the Bank's
involvement in the sector was to support the Government in its effort to (i) strengthen and
complete the paving of the basic road network, and (ii) provide assistance to improve
transportation in the communal lands where the need for funds and technical assistance
was the greatest.
2.    Two important studies, namely, the National Transport Study and the National
Feeder Road Study, were financed and completed under the First Highway Project.
While the recommendations of the National Transport Study, completed in October 1985,
were the basis for the Second Highway Project, the recommendations of the National
Feeder Road Study formed the basis for the Second Feeder Road Project, financed by the
African Development Bank (AfDB).
B.    The Project and its Objective
3.    The primary objective of the Second Highway Project was to reduce the backlog
of periodic maintenance of primary, secondary, and feeder roads. Preserving the road
network through periodic maintenance was expected to contribute to preserving the
capital invested in the road network, facilitate road transport, particularly in the
communal lands, and lower vehicle operating costs. The project also sought to encourage
greater reliance on contractors to supplement force account work for both rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance.
4.    The objective to facilitate road transport was supported by regulatory reform. The
permit system that existed at the time of project appraisal prohibited trucking services
from hauling agricultural products and from hauling goods between other than the
prescribed zones. The Development Credit Agreement included the requirement that the
Government would (i) exempt commercial truck operators hauling agricultural products
during peak periods from obtaining the restrictive road service permits; and (ii) introduce
a system of licensing commercial truck operators based primarily on vehicle safety and
driver and managerial competence.



- ii -
C.    Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Despite delays of over a year in project start-up caused by inadequate counterpart
funds and completion of less than the planned physical work, the project achieved the
stated objective of reducing the backlog of periodic maintenance. The objective was
achieved through:
(a)   strengthening and rehabilitation of 6 sections of paved roads totaling 138
km (target 175 km);
(b)   resealing of 1327 km of paved roads (target 1,500 km);
(c)   regravelling of 1671 km of gravel roads (target 1,500 km); and
(d)   low-cost improvement of 691 km of secondary and feeder roads (target
1,400 km).
6.    The Bank assisted the Government in meeting the above objective by financing
55 percent of the cost of rehabilitation and resealing, and 75 percent of the total
supervision cost of the above two programs. The regravelling and low-cost improvement
programs were financed by the Government. Although the quantity of work completed
was less than planned in all but the regravelling program, the quality of the contracted out
and force account work, and of the supervision was generally good.
7.    Construction and supervision costs for the rehabilitation program increased for the
following reasons: (i) initial implementation delays and the need to extend the project
implementation period from four to five years due to budgetary constraints; (ii) water
shortages and related difficulties due to the drought; (iii) general inflation; and (iv)
additional work, including design changes to reflect stricter safety requirements adopted
by the Government during the implementation period, (in total additional work accounted
for between 16% and 80%, or on average about 52% of the cost increase). Examples of
the latter were the inclusion of a road-over-rail instead of at-grade crossing, and the
addition of a passing lane on a densely trafficked incline for accident avoidance. While
the cost increase in terms of Zimbabwe dollars was substantial (410%), the increase in
terms of US dollars was only 6%.
8.    Government's compliance with the Loan covenants was mixed. The reform of the
operating environment for truckers was accomplished by a series of exemptions under
existing law. An amendment to the Road Motor Transportation Act that effectively
deregulates, except for fitness and safety, both surface freight and passenger transport
services, has received Cabinet approval and is expected to be passed by Parliament in the
current session, i.e., before the end of 1995. However, audit reports were submitted to
the Bank only after considerable delays, and two audit reports remain outstanding. The
Government also failed to increase the Central Mechanical Equipment Department



- iW -
(CMED) charges to reflect financial costs. Several supervision missions recommended
that the Government petition the Bank to amend this covenant to specify development of
an action plan for privatizing CMED (the Government's stated goal), but no such request
was received.
9.    Economic Rate of Return: The actual economic rates of return (ERR) for the
roads under the rehabilitation program are about the same or in some cases higher than
the estimates. The ERRs for the resealing, regravelling, and low-cost improvement are
above 50% and also are higher than estimated.
D.   Lessons Learned and Future Operations
10.   Key Lessons Learned. The project illustrates the need to address institutional
and financing issues more directly and comprehensively. The problem of inadequate
allocations for road maintenance persisted throughout project implementation which
affected not only the provision of counterpart funds for the project but also the goal of
reducing the maintenance backlog. The problem was exacerbated when the adjustment
process began, as the Government was being advised to cut spending in all non-social
sectors. As a result counterpart funding for road maintenance declined.
11.   The need for an integrated approach was recognized when DSR experienced
difficulty with contracting out some of the resealing work. The limited capacity of the
existing contractors to perform the work enabled the established firms to pick and choose
and raise their prices. This experience affirms that parallel reforms, such as to develop
and maintain the capacity of the construction industry, are important.
12.   Future Operation. The Government indicated in its 1995 Annual Consultations
with the Bank that the road sector is among the priority sectors where the Bank's
assistance might be needed. As a result, a reconnaissance mission visited Zimbabwe in
October 1995 to initiate discussion of the development needs of the sector. Some of the
needs identified and agreed with Government agencies during the mission included: (i) a
coordinated sector maintenance, rehabilitation, and development plan; (ii) decisions on
modalities for mobilization and allocation of local funds; (iii) institutional reforms to
improve the delivery of road services with a larger role for the private sector; and (iv)
further rehabilitation and strengthening of roads throughout the public network. It is
expected that the proposed operation would cover all categories of roads, including
feeder/rural and urban roads.
E.    Project Sustainability
13.   Project sustainability is uncertain. Judging from past experience, it is unlikely
that the Government would provide adequate funds for road maintenance in the absence
of a dedicated fund. However, the Government is currently taking steps to establish a
road fund. A fuel levy has been instituted and is being collected, which at the current
level would cover about two-thirds of the maintenance requirement for state roads. The



- iv -
legislation to establish the dedicated fund is being drafted. Concerns remain that the
political will to raise user fees to a level that would cover all maintenance requirements or
to provide the necessary allocation out of general revenues may not exist.
14.   The planning process has deteriorated and become increasingly political, hence
low priority new construction is being programmed over high priority maintenance and
rehabilitation. An analysis completed in December 1994 stated that the budget allocation
for state roads would be sufficient to cover the maintenance requirements provided no
new construction were undertaken. However, if the road sector project currently under
consideration shouldi materialize, procedures for mobilization and allocation of funds
could be developed which woould address this problem.



ZIMBABWE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN 2939-ZIM
PART 1: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction
1.    The Bank's involvement in the highway sub-sector began with the First Highway
Project (Loan 2282-ZIM) in early 1980. Preparation of that project started right after the
country's independence. The main objective of that project was to assist the new
Government to improve transportation in the communal lands, neglected by earlier
Governments, in order to integrate the communal lands into the more economically
developed centers of the country. This objective was achieved by upgrading the priority
main sections of the road network and extending the road network by constructing three
state roads in the communal lands to all-weather gravel standard.
2.    The First Highway Project also financed two vital studies, namely, the National
Transport Study and the National Feeder Road Study, that identified significant issues in
the national transport administration. The National Transport Study, completed in October
1985, was the first transport sector study which reviewed the Government's transport
policies, recommended an integrated national transport policy, and identified an
investment program for the years 1985/86 - 1989/90. The National Feeder Road Study
evaluated the agencies involved in feeder road development and recommended the most
effective organization to plan and implement programs to develop and maintain feeder
roads. The study also identified priority roads in the communal lands. While the
recommendation of the National Transport Study was the basis for the programs included
in the Second Highway Project, the recommendation of the National Feeder Road Study
was the basis for AfDB's Second Rural Road Project.
B.   Project Background
3.    During preparation, it was envisaged that the Second Highway Project would be an
integrated project with cofinancing from the World Bank and AfDB and would consist of:
(a)   construction and improvement (to paved standard) of about 750 km of
feeder roads in the commnunal lands, responsibility for which had recently
been transferred from the local authorities to DSR;
(b)   construction of key bridges on the state road network in the communal
lands;



- 2 -
(c)   implementation of a three-year regravelling and resealing program;
(d)   strengthening of paved roads;
(e)   assistance to the trucking industry; and
(f)   implementation of a training program.
However, during project appraisal, significant changes were made in the scope and
financing plan because AfDB did not agree with a flexible multi-year program, with only
the first year program prepared in detail. In view of the above, it was decided that AfDB
would finance the improvement of secondary and feeder roads under the Second Rural
Roads Project, and the Bank would finance the regravelling and resealing program, and
strengthening of paved roads under the Second Highway Project. Furthermore, the
assistance to the trucking industry and the training programs were dropped from the
Second Highway Project and instead a covenant was included to introduce the operators
license system (OLS). The training program was financed by a Swedish grant. Both the
Second Rural Roads Project and the training program were successfully completed.
C.   Evaluation of Project Objectives
4.    The primary objective of the Second Highway Project was to strengthen the state
road network in the commercial farming areas as well as in the comnmunal lands by
reducing the backlog of periodic maintenance of primary, secondary, and feeder roads.
This was expected to preserve capital invested in the road network, facilitate road
transport, lower vehicle operating costs, and help improve trucking services through
introduction of a more efficient truck licensing system.
5.    The project objective was clearly stated and was consistent with the
Government's development objectives and priorities for the sub-sector, and the Bank's
country assistance strategy. The Government's development objective was to improve
the road infrastructure in the communal areas in order to integrate those areas with the
more economically developed centers of the country. The Bank's strategy in the highway
sub-sector was, mainly, to assist the Government in reducing the backlog of periodic
maintenance in order to avoid premature future major investment.
6.    The project objective was supported by policy reform, i.e., trucking industry
regulatory reform. The reform involved the relaxation of the economic regulations for
the trucking industry, particularly with respect to market entry and licensing, and was
expected among other things to improve transport services to the communal areas.
D.   Achievement of Project Objectives
7.    Despite delays in implementation and less than planned completion of physical
works, the project was successful in meeting its stated objective of strengthening the state



- 3 -
road network in commercial farming areas as well as in communal lands by reducing the
backlog of periodic maintenance. This was confirmed in the Government's Road
Condition Survey of 1994, published in June 1995. For example, in 1985 approximately
68% of Zimbabwe's paved roads had been resealed within 8 years compared with 78% in
1994. The survey attributes this gain to the Second Highway Project. The Bank assisted
the Government in meeting the above objective by financing 55 percent of the cost of
rehabilitation and resealing, and 75 percent of the total supervision cost of the above two
programs. The regravelling and low-cost improvement programs were financed by the
Government. The project objective was to be achieved through:
(a)   strengthening and rehabilitation of 9 sections of paved roads totaling 175
kmn;
(b)   resealing of 1500 km of paved roads;
(c)   regravelling of 1500 km of secondary and feeder roads;
(d)   low-cost improvement of 1400 km of secondary and feeder roads; and
(e)   consulting services for (a) and (b) above.
8.    The summary of actual work completed compared with the appraisal estimate is
shown in the table below.
Work Completed (Actual vs Estimated)
Description           Appraisal Estimate    Actual (Kin)  % Actual
(Krn) 
Rehabilitation        174                    138          79
Resealing             1500                  1327          88
Regravelling          1500                  1641          109
Low-Cost Improvement 1400                    691           49
Although the quantity of work completed was less than planned in all but the regravelling
program, the quality of the contracted out and force account work, and of the supervision
was generally good.
9.    The planned Strengthening and Rehabilitation Programs covered the most
important segments of the highway network, totaling 174 km. However, only six road
sections totaling 138 km were completed because of Government's inability to provide
adequate counterpart funds. All of the programs experienced delays, some of which were
significant. As a result of implementation delays, all roads, except Harare-Gweru,
experienced cost increases compared to the original estimate. Despite the implementation



- 4-
delays and budgetary constraints, 79% of the targeted work was completed under this
program.
10.   At appraisal the plan was to reseal 1500 km of paved roads, or about one-fifth of
the total length of paved state roads in the country. A total of 1327 km was resealed over
five years. In line with the substantial reduction in the size and number of construction
units and to ensure cost-effective use of MoTE staff, 30% of the resealing work was
completed by force account and the remaining 70% contracted out to the private sector
under competitive bidding. Contracting out of resealing work was a new procedure
introduced by the project and was intended to demonstrate that contracting out would be
easy to administer, provide work of equally good quality but at lower cost than work by
force account. Donor-financed consultants were supposed to be analyzing the cost
structure of force account work in parallel with this experiment, but the results never
became available.
11.   For resealing by force account, the project provided reimbursement to MoTE on a
per kilometer basis based on the average per kilometer cost of the contracted out work.
Reimbursement rates grew from Z$3.50 in 1989/90 to Z$16.10 in 1993/94.
Unfortunately the cost comparison has proved difficult because data collected in the early
years of project implementation apparently were misplaced, CMED rates for equipment
hire remained significantly below cost, the availability of for-hire equipment improved as
time went on as import barriers were reduced, and the cost structure of the force account
work changed during implementation with the reduction in unit size and the retrenchment
of workers from DSR between 1992 and 1994. As these factors have now achieved some
stability, and as further reforms are under consideration, a comparison would be both
timely and useful.
12.   The Resealing Program is considered to be successful, because at the time of loan
closing about 88% of the resealing work had been completed and is of good quality. The
contracting out aspect worked well until the last two years of the project when the
budgetary allocations for road maintenance were so low that the force account units
would have stood idle had any resealing been contracted out. The experiment also
demonstrated that contractors' interest in resealing work depends on appropriate
packaging in terms of the amount and density of the work, and proximity to urban centers
and/or to other works. Resealing work in some of the more remote sections was not
attractive to contractors and no bids were received. Some of the bids from private
contractors were also higher than expected. This, plus the lack of interest in some of the
work, suggests that there may have been insufficient capacity in the private sector to
create a competitive contracting environment during the implementation period. For
budgetary reasons the contracting out experiment only lasted three years, which was too
short a time for the contracting and consulting industry to develop and grow in response
to steady demand.
13.   Prior to the implementation of the project, no regravelling had been done for some
years; hence, a large backlog existed and about 1500 km were in particular need of



regravelling. A total of 1641 km of regravelling was completed prior to loan closing.
Except for two road sections that were completed by contract, the regravelling was done
by force account. This program is considered to be very successful.
14.   The target for the low-cost improvements program was 1400 km. However, only
691 km were completed, mainly because of inadequate funding by Government and the
more than anticipated work needed. Originally it was anticipated that the work would
involve only improvement to the drainage structures. However, because of considerable
road deterioration, it became necessary to reinforce many of the roads prior to working on
drainage structures.
15.   To meet the objective of improved transport services, the Government has
instituted a series of short-term exemptions to the current regulations. More importantly,
an amendment of the Road Transportation Act which essentially eliminates all economic
regulation of both freight and passenger transportation was approved by Cabinet prior to
loan closing and is expected to be considered by Parliament during the 1995 session.
This amendment would introduce reforms that go beyond the requirement contained in
the Development Credit Agreement.
16.   As a result of the requirement, recommended by the National Transport Study, to
reduce both the number of units and permanent laborers, the construction units were
reduced from eight to six and the labor force from 1,800 to 300 personnel during the
implementation period. This also goes beyond the requirement in the Development
Credit Agreement to prepare an action program to improve the organization and structure
of MoTE construction units.
E.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   The major factor affecting project execution was inadequate counterpart funds.
Inadequacy of counterpart funds delayed implementation by over a year, extended the
implementation period from four to five years, and resulted in the scaling down of the
rehabilitation program. Three road sections, namely, the Harare-Nyamapanda road, the
Gweru-Bulawayo road, and the Bindura-Shamva road were deleted from the program
because of lack of funds.
F.    Project Sustainability
18.   Project sustainability is uncertain. Without Government's full commitment to
allocate the required funds for road maintenance, the project cannot be sustained.
Government attributed its failure to provide sufficient funds to severe budgetary
constraints. The budgetary constraints, however, were not the result of inadequate
revenues from road users, but rather a Government decision not to allocate the revenues
generated from the sector to road maintenance. According to the Bank's Transport Sector
Memorandum, completed in February 1988, revenues generated from road users were
adequate to fund road maintenance. License fees, excise taxes on autos and spare parts



- 6-
are included. The Special Institutional Study completed in December 1994 confirms that
this is still the case. This study estimates that road users in Zimbabwe contributed over
Z$1 billion in duties, levies and fees of different types. Of this amount, approximately
Z$450 million are directly related to road use, e.g., fuel levies and license fees. To cover
the total maintenance cost, an additional Z$ 150-200 million would need to be raised,
preferably in a manner that reflects the cost of road use for different types of vehicles to
promote greater allocative efficiency. As continuation of the current level of maintenance
funding would result in a significant deterioration of the existing road network, which
would necessitate expensive rehabilitation, a mechanism needs to be put in place that
would assure channeling the revenues generated from the sector to improved
maintenance of sector assets. During the October 1995 reconnaissance mission for the
proposed Road Sector Project, the Government indicated its desire to establish an
autonomous Road Fund for financing road maintenance.
G.   Bank Performance
19.   The Bank's performance was highly satisfactory in the identification, preparation,
and appraisal, and satisfactory in the supervision of the Project. During project
identification and preparation, the Bank assisted the Government in reviewing the road
development plan in the five-year Public Sector Investment Program (1986-1990) to
ensure that it was consistent with the National Transport Study findings including the
investment program recommended by the study. Furthermore, the Bank assisted the
Government in formulating its transport sector strategy and in identifying project
components.
20.   During project appraisal, when major changes in project composition, financing
plan and conditionality were made, the Bank played an active role to make sure that the
original project objectives were adhered to.
21.   The actual time devoted to project supervision was 18 staff weeks per fiscal year.
Throughout project implementation, the Bank maintained close contact with the
Government and communicated the need for adequate counterpart funds for road
maintenance. Despite an active dialogue, the Bank was unable to gain compliance with
some of the loan covenants.
H.   Borrower's Performance
22.   The Government's performance in the physical implementation of the project was
highly satisfactory, i.e., timely preparation of procurement documents and completion of
the civil works. The Borrower's performance with regard to the allocation of adequate
counterpart funds was unsatisfactory and compliance with covenants was mixed. The
required amount of counterpart funds were never allocated, nor were the allocations
timely. While the Government did meet the objectives of the trucking regulatory reform
and the reform of the construction units, the Government did not comply with the
requirement of CMED to increase the rates it charges to reflect economic costs; there



- 7-
were only two small increases agreed to in 1991 and 1992. Furthermore, the Government
failed to submitted audited accounts in a timely manner, and withdrawal applications
were submitted to the Bank only after considerable delays.
I.    Assessment of Outcome
23.   The outcome of the project was satisfactory. Although not all of the physical
work was implemented, the project assisted in reducing the road maintenance backlog. It
also served to secure Government's commitment to allocate counterpart funds, although
that commitment was not to the extent necessary. That is, without the project, the level of
funding provided for maintenance would not have been as high. Also, as a result of the
project, significant steps were taken to relax the trucking regulations and this contributed
to better transportation service not only to the communal areas but also to the entire
country.
24.   Economic Re-Evaluation: The economic evaluation during appraisal was based
on savings in vehicle operating costs, savings in maintenance costs, and benefits in terms
of the avoided higher costs of later reconstruction. In the revaluation, benefits from
savings in road maintenance costs were not taken into account because it was difficult to
determine whether the savings considered were for routine maintenance or for more than
routine maintenance. Actual 1994 traffic data for the roads in the rehabilitation,
resealing, and regravelling programs were provided by DSR. However, only 1992 actual
traffic data was provided for the roads completed under the low-cost improvement
program. Also DSR provided traffic growth rates and vehicle operating cost savings. As
actual traffic figures for 1988 - 1993 were not available, GDP growth was used as a proxy
for traffic growth for these years.
25.   The economic revaluation shows the high economic benefits resulting from
rehabilitation and maintenance. The ERRs for the roads under the rehabilitation program
are about the same or higher than estimated. The ERRs for the roads under the resealing
program are over 100% and above the estimates. As the project design permitted
flexibility in the selection of the roads to be included after the first year, many of the road
sections completed were not the same as those included in the Staff Appraisal Report.
Nonetheless, the high ERRs confirm that the roads were of high priority. The reason for
the higher than estimated ERRs in the rehabilitation and resealing programs was
primarily higher traffic than anticipated during appraisal. The ERRs for the roads under
the regravelling program are also high, ranging between 30% and 72%. These higher
rates of return were the result of higher vehicle operating costs savings. The ERRs for
the first and second year program under the low-cost improvement program are very
high, and reflect the dramatic benefits of a relatively small improvement, such as
rebuilding a culvert, which restores the road to passable condition.'
Economic Rates of Return for each road in the Rehabilitation Program and for a sample of the Reseal, Regravelling
and Low-Cost Improvements Programs are shown in Appendix C.



-8 -
J.    Future Operation
26.   At the request of the Government, the Bank is considering preparation of a road
sector project. Although the project is in an early stage of identification, discussions with
various agencies during the reconnaissance mission indicated that the proposed project
would address the important element of the sustainability of road maintenance funding in
particular. Some of the other concerns that would be addressed by the proposed project
are listed below:
(a)   a coordinated sector rehabilitation and development and maintenance plan;
(b)   decisions on modalities for mobilization and allocation of local funds;
(c)   clarification of responsibilities among government agencies;
(d)   further rehabilitation and strengthening of roads throughout the public
network, with particular emphasis on feeder/rural and urban roads; and
(e)   a review of the impact of road transport policy reforms on the extent and
characteristics of transport services, in particular the consequences for the
poor.
K.   Key Lessons Learned
27.   The most important lesson learned from the project is that the Government's
commitment alone does not guarantee the allocation of adequate funds for a project.
Although the likelihood of Government not allocating adequate counterpart funds existed,
demonstrated by past maintenance funding, appropriate measures to address the issue
were not included in the project. More broadly, the segmentation of the road network
into different projects funded by different donors impeded the development of an efficient
and cost-effective program of road maintenance across the entire network. As such, the
integrated approach first envisioned in project preparation would possibly have been
more effective in developing a sustainable framework for maintaining Zimbabwe's roads.
28.   The positive lesson learned from the project is that the decision to address
maintenance requirements at a time when most projects focused on new construction and
rehabilitation yielded high returns. Therefore, through the project the need for allocating
adequate funds for and the importance of road maintenance were established. Also, under
the project the process of tackling institutional and policy issues raised by the National
Transport Study and the National Feeder Roads Study began.
29.   The need for an integrated approach is further demonstrated by the difficulty with
which DSR contracted out some of the resealing work. As demand increased, the limited
capacity of the existing contractors to perform the work enabled the established firms to



-9-
pick and choose and raise their prices. This suggests that parallel reforms, such as to
develop and maintain the capacity of the construction industry, must move in consort
with changes in how roads are maintained. This need was perceived during project
implementation and a proposed Construction Industry Project was added to the Bank's
program. However, the project was dropped prior to appraisal, as some of the key
reforms were undertaken by Governtnent in response to recommendations of preparatory
studies and others in connection with the structural adjustment program.
30.   The Second Highway Project, which included a number of innovations in how
DSR would be planning, programming and maintaining the state road network, did not
establish a baseline against which improvements in performance could be measured
beyond physical measures such as the number of kilometers completed and the reduction
in the maintenance backlog. Thus, for example, the impact of changes in DSR's cost
structure in doing such maintenance could not be easily tracked and measured. The gain
in the Government's understanding of the importance of road maintenance is, however,
demonstrated in the papers that have been written and presented and in the Government's
conception of the proposed follow-on project.
31.   The project was also flexible in that implementation was not limited to the roads
that were included in the Staff Appraisal Report. As and when roads were determined to
need resealing works, justified by the economic rate of return, the roads were included in
the project. The success of this approach is attributable to the capability of DSR and
MoTE staff.
32.   The project also bore out the observation contained in a World Bank discussion
paper2 that policy reform takes time. Deregulation of the trucking industry was
encouraged first in the First Highway Project, but is just now coming to fruition. This
suggests that the usual time frames provided for are too optimistic and that more effective
change could ensue from more realistic programming.
2Ian G. Heggie, "Designing Major Policy Reform - Lessons from the Transport Sector', World Bank Discussion
Paper No. I115, 199 1.






PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEX



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of Objective            Substantial    Partial     Negligible    Applicable
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development                            *
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                                                                *
Gender concerns                                                                  *
Other social objectives                                                          *
Environmental objectives                                                         *
Public sector management                             *
Private sector development                           *
Other (specify)                                                                  *
[ B. Project Sustainability           |                Likely   I  Unlikely  J  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                                Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                       *
Preparation assistance                               *
Appraisal                                                                               l
Supervision                                                       *
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                            Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation
Implementation                                                                   *
Covenant compliance                                                              *
Operation
Highly                                   Highly
|E. Assessment of Outcome              Satisfactory  Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory



TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan                                         Purpose                             approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. 2282-Zim, Highways I  The project was to strengthen the main road network and   1983         Completed
provide better road links between certain long neglected
communal areas and the more economically developed
centers of the country, thus stimulabtg development in
those less accessible areas.
2. 2342-ZIM, Rail. Devi.  The project was to assist NRZ to maintain its operational  1984       Completed
efficiency by filling critical staff positions through staffing
and training programs. In addition, the project financed
technical assistance, training and spare parts in order to
prevent deterioration of rail equipment and fixed assets
installations.
Following operatons
1. 3273, Railways II    The project was to: (a) support the organizational, financial,  1990    On-goining
operational and asset restructuring of NRZ, necessary for
achieving effective capacity utilization, financial availability,
and cooperatives, (b) reduce the economic costs of
transport, both domestically and for transit traffic, and
(c) eliminate of recourse of Government for subsidies
to cover losses.



Table 3: Project Tlmetable
Steps In project cycle        Date planned          Date actual
Identification                                              2/7/85
Preparation                                                9/13/85
Appraisal                             6/1/87                9/9/87
Negotiations                         3/14/88               3/14/88
Board presentation                   5/10/88               5/10/88
Signing                               7/1/88               8/24/88
Effectiveness                        2/23/89                5/4/89
Project completion                   12/31/94              6/30/95
Loan closing                         6/30/95               6/30/95



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Appraisal                      Actual as % of
Fiscal Year     Estimate         Actual      Appraisal Estimate
1988
1989            2.9
1990            8.8
1991            16.4            3.0              18.3
1992            23.5            8.3              35.3
1993            29.1           14.7              50.5
1994            32.7           21.2              64.8
1995                           25.1              76.8



Table 5A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ Million)     Actual (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign                 Local   Foreign
Item                        Costs    Costs    Total          Costs    Costs    Total
Strengthen/Rehab. Paved
Roads (175 km)               12.7     15.3     28.0           13.4     16.3     29.7
Resealing Paved Roads
(1,500 km)                  11.9      14.3     26.2          11.0      13.4     24.4
Regravelling (1,500 km)         8.5     10.1      18.6          14.6              14.6
Low-Cost Improvements
(1,400km)                     5.5      4.3      9.8            7.7               7.7
Consulting Services             0.7      3.1       3.8           0.6      1.8      2.4
Total Project Cost             39.3     47.1      86.4          47.3     31.5      78.8
Table 5B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$ Million)      Actual (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign                 Local   Foreign
Source                      Costs    Costs    Total          Costs    Costs    Total
World Bank                       0      32.7      32.7          10.0     15.1     25.1
Govemment                      39.3     14.4     53.7           37.3     16.4     53.7
Total                          39.3     47.1      86.4          47.3     31.5      78.8



Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
_ _ _         _ _ _ _    __               Original     Revised
Covenant      Present       Fulfillment    Fulfillment          Description of                 Comments
Agreement   Section     Type         Status          Date         Date                  Covenant
Loan         3.03(a)    Regulatory      CD           12/31/88     6/30/89   By December 31, 1988 (i) commercial   Complied with.
change                                           truck operators hauling agricultural
products during peak periods and
and (ii) those operating trucks with
capacities below 10 tons (a) within and
providing service (b) to, and from, the
communal areas shall be exempted
from road service permits.
Loan         3.03(b)    Regulatory      CP             12/31/89     12/31/91 By December 31, 1989, a system of    An amendment to the Act
change                                           licensing commercial truck operators    has been approved by
based primarily on vehicle safety  Cabinet and is expected to
and managerial competence shall be    be considered by
introduced.                        Parliament during the
current session.
The Borrower shall
Loan         4.01(a)        Audit       CP        Six months                (i) have the project records and
after the end of          accounts, including those for the
each fiscal               Special Accounts, for each fiscal
year                      year, audited, and
(ii) fumish to the Bank not later  Have been complied with
than six months after the end of   after delays for FY 89/90,
each fiscal year, the report of such  90/91and 91/92. However,
audit.                            reports for FY 92/93 and
93/94 have not been
4.01 (b)       Audit       CD        Six months                For all expenditures for which     submitted.
after the end             withdrawals from the loan accounts
of each fiscal            were made on the basis of statement
year.                     of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain records and accounts  Complied with.
reflecting such expenditures; and
(ii) ensure that such records and  Complied with.
accounts are included in the annual
_ _ _______.___ _                         audit.                             I



Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
T                                       Original     Revised
Covenant      Present       Fulfillment    Fulfillment          Description of                 Comments
Agreement   Section     Type         Status         Date          Date                  Covenant
Loan              5.02 Financial        ND       Annual                     The Borrower shall review annually  CMED has been requesting
the hire rates the Central Mechanical   annual rate increases.
Equipment Department charges MOTE  However, when granted,
for equipment and vehicles, and    half of what was requested
shall adjust such rates by not later  was granted. Hire rates
than August 1 each year, so as to  have not, then, met the
reflect the projected costs of    financial targets stipulated.
acquisition, repair and maintenance of
such equipment and vehicles for the
following year, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering, administrative
and financial practices.
Loan              5.03 Institutional    CD           12/31/88        6/30/89 The Borrower shall take all measures   Complied with
including carrying out the road
works on the basis of an appropriate
mix of contractors and MOTE
construction units. To that end, the
borrower shall prepare and submit
to the Bank for its review and
comments by not later than
December 31, 1988, an action
program designed to improve the
current organizational structure of
the MOTE construction units.
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
ND = not done
2



Table 7: Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
Planned            Revised             Actual
State of Project Cycle   Weeks    US$     Weeks    US$       Weeks    US$
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   J  ~(0 0 0 )
Through appraisal        NA       NA        NA       NA          35.0    54.6
Appraisal - Board        NA       NA        NA       NA          23.1    37.8
Board - Effectiveness    NA       NA        NA       NA           5.1     9.1
Supervision              NA       NA        NA       NA          94.3   154.3
Completion               NA       NA        NA       NA           7.0    18.9
TOTAL                                                           164.5   274.7



Table 8: Bank Resources
Mission
Stage of                   No. of   Days In    Specialize Staff   knplementatlon    Development       Type of
Project Cycle MonthlYear Persons   Field    Skills Represented       Status         Objectives       Problems
hrough        285         4         88         HE, Econ.             NA              NA
appraisal        9/87                                                                                   NA
Appraisal        9187        3        20        HE, Econ., OA          NA               NA               NA
hrough Board    5/8
approval
Board approval    3188                NA            NA                 NA              NA               NA
hrough
effectieness     5189
SuperNvsion      8.58        1        7             HE                 NA              NA               NA
2189       2         5           HE, CIS              NA              NA               NA
9/89        2        4          HE, Econ.             2                1            Inadequate
Counterpart funds
6190        1        13            HE                 NA              NA            Inadequate
Counterpart funds
2M1        1         5             HE                 2                2            Inadequate
Counterpart funds
3192        1        19            HE                 2                2            Inadequate
Counterpart funds
11J92       2        12          HE, Econ.             2                2           Inadequate
Counterpart funds
11193       1        12             HE                 2                2           Inadequate
Counterpart funds
Completion       9/9S        2        8          Econ., OA
HE           Highways Engineer
Econ. =      Economist
CIS   =      Construction Industry Specialist
OA   =       Operations Analyst



Table 9: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Due to the flexibility allowed by the project design (only the first year program
was specified in detail), a comparison of appraisal estimates with actual
results on a road-by-road basis would be misleading.



Appendix A
ZIMBABWE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 2939-ZIM
WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
October 1995
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank Mission comprising Ms. Imogene Jensen (Mission Leader, Senior
Economist, and Ms. Asamanetch Fantaye (Operations Analyst) visited Zimbabwe from
October 3 -14, 1995, to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the
above-mentioned project.
2.    The mission met with officials from the Ministry of Transport and Energy (MoTE),
and within that Ministry the Department of State Roads (DSR), Central Planning Unit, and
the Central Mechanical Equipment Department (CMED), and National Economic
Planning Commission (NEPC).
3.    The mission would like to express its appreciation for the kind assistance and
cooperation extended to it by officials of government ministries.
4.    Upon arrival the mission was provided with the final Project Progress Report,
Quarterly Report Number 18, for the period March 1 - June 30, 1995.
5.    The Loan closed on June 30, 1995. As of September 30, 1995, 70% of the Loan
was disbursed. To date, several withdrawal applications have not yet been received in
Washington. When payments are made on these applications the percentage of the Loan
disbursed is expected to be higher than 70%. The mission reiterated that all withdrawal
applications must be received by the Bank no later than four months after the closing date.
That is before the 4-month grace period expires (October 31, 1995). Delay in submitting
withdrawal applications for local funds for resealing by force account was experienced. In
the mean time the Z$ devalued, with the result that loan paid out fewer US$. Notification
of the Borrower's responsibilities for the preparation of the ICR was communicated
during the June 1995 supervision mission.
OVERVIEW OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.    The project experienced funding problems shortly after effectiveness because
Government could not meet the counterpart funds within the agreed period due to
economic problems. Therefore, project implementation was postponed from FY 88/89 to



Appendix A
2
FY 89/90 as no funds were allocated for FY 88/89. Also, it was agreed that the
implementation period would be stretched from four years to five years to ease the
budgetary constraints. As a result of delays in getting the project started, costs increased
substantially, making it difficult for the Government to provide adequate counterpart
funds. Although not always adequate, the Government had been providing counterpart
funds, both for the project and for regular maintenance until FY 94/95 where no
counterpart funds were allocated for resealing work. Resealing work, with 55% ofthe
total cost financed from the project, could have been done in FY 95/96 if the closing date
of the Loan had been extended. This was not possible because two audit reports were
outstanding and two other covenants had not been met at the time of project closing.
7.    The objective of the project was to: (1) reduce the backlog of maintenance; and
(2) integrate communal lands by improving trucking services through (i) improvement of
access routes, and (ii) introduction of a more efficient licensing system. Although our
present evaluation of the project cannot be completed without the economic analysis, the
project achieved its objective of assisting, in terms of km of roads maintained, the
Government in reducing a backlog which had built up over the last several years.
According to the Road Condition Survey of 1994, the condition of the sealed roads has
improved and it was stated that this project contributed to the improvement.
STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION
8.    The project comprises the following four programs: (a) rehabilitation, totaling 175
km of paved roads; (b) resealing of 1,500 km of secondary and feeder roads; (c)
regravelling of about 1,500 km of secondary and feeder roads; (d) low-cost improvement
of about 1,400 km of secondary and feeder roads; and (e) consulting services for
construction supervision of (a) and (b).
Rehabilitation Program
9.    Out of the 9 (175 km) road sections to be rehabilitated, 6 (138 km) were
completed at a total cost of Z$139 million compared to the estimated cost of Z$ 27.3
million (Table 1 and 2). Three road sections, namely Harare-Nyamapanda; Gweru-
Bulaway; and Bindura-Shamva were deleted from the program due to Government's
inability to provide counterpart funds. All components experienced delays. For the
Harare-Gweru and Harare-Mutare roads delays were caused by slow mobilization of
equipment, land acquisition problems for the detours, additional work, and slower than
scheduled progress on the construction works. For Mazowe-Bindura delays were due to
bitumen supply problems, additional works, design changes and late payments to the
contractor.
10.   The actual supervision cost amounted to Z$10.9 million compared to Z$3.0 million
estimated, reflecting both the longer implementation periods and the devaluation of the
Z$.



3                                    Appendix A
Resealing Program
11.   A total of 1327 km were resealed compared to 1500 km programmed. In the
earlier years, resealing was conducted by both force account and by contract. Force
account works were reimbursed under the project based on the average rate of the
contracted out works. In the later years, budget allocations were reduced to the point
where force account units would have stood idle had any works been contracted out.
Thus all resealing after FY 92/93 was done by force account. If Government's
contribution to the FY 93/94 had not been cut or if the Loan Closing Date had been
extended, the target of 1500 km would have been fully met.
Regravelling and Low-Cost Improvement Programs.
12.   These programs are financed exclusively by the Government. In the regravelling
program a total of 1641 km were completed out of a target of 1,500 km. In the Low-Cost
Improvement Program, a total of 690.7 km were completed out of a target of 1,400 km.
Less than 50% of the program was completed as a result of inadequate budget allocations.
Compliance with Loan Covenants (Table 3)
13.   Audit Reports. The covenant required the Government to have the records and
accounts of the loan and special accounts audited and submit such audit reports to the
Bank, not later than six months after the end of each year. The audit reports for FY
89/90, 90/91, and 91/92 were submitted after delays, while the audit reports for FY 92/93
and 93/94 have not been submitted.
14.   Operators Licensing System (OLS). The covenant required the Government to
amend the Road Motor Transportation Act to provide for licensing based primarily on
vehicle safety, and driver and managerial competence. The compliance was formally
extended from December 31, 1989, to December 31, 1991. No additional extensions have
been requested. However, the spirit of this condition has been met by a series of short-
term exceptions to the current regulations. More importantly, an amendment to the Act
which essentially eliminates all economic regulation of both freight and passenger
transportation has been approved by Cabinet and is expected to be considered by
Parliament during the current session.
15.   Central Mechanical Equipment Department (CMED). The covenant required
the Government to review CMED's hire rates on an annual basis and adjust them each
year to reflect the filll costs of acquisition and operation. Although, CMIED had been
requesting rate increases every year, the requested increases have not been granted. The
rate increases granted are as follows:



Appeiidix A
4
FY                       Granted (%)
86/87                       30
87/88                       20
90/91                       35
92/93                       30
16.   World Bank missions the past two years have acknowledged that CMED's
problems are too fundamental to be addressed via improved systems and procedures, let
alone increased hire rates. There appears to be a consensus among Government and the
Bank that CMED needs to be downsized and restructured into a commercially-oriented
plant hire company or companies with diversified ownership. Thus these missions
recommended that the Government amend the covenant to state the Government would
conduct an overall strategy review of CMED and prepare an action plan by a certain date.
However, no such request was received. This mission was informed that CMED is
considering privatization and a proposal was submitted to the Treasury.
17.   Budget Allocations for Road Maintenance. As project implementation
progressed, less and less fiuds were allocated than what was requested for road
maintenance (Table 1). As indicated in Special Institutional Study completed in December
1994, Z$320 million would be required annuaDly to suistain the state roads in an adequate
condition.
PRELIMINARY CONCLUSION
18.   Despite delays in implementation and problems of counterpart fuids, the project
achieved its objectives by assisting Government to reduce the backlog of the periodic
maintenance of primary, secondary, and feeder roads. However, the Bank's evaluation of
the project cannot be completed without the economic analysis, but DSR is working on
providing the information, including traffic data and vehicle operating costs. DSR has
agreed that all information will be forthcoming by October 16, 1995.
19.   The mission received the Government's ICR on October 13, 1995.
Harare
October 13, 1995



Requested and Actual
Budget for Road Maintenance
(Z$ Million)
Project Year                     1                    2                   3                 4               5                 6
Fiscal Year                   1988/89               1989/90            1990/91          1991192           1992/93          1993194      Total
Project Components      Requested   Actual  Requested   Actual  Requested Actual Requested Actual Requested Actual Requested Actual Actual
Rehabilitation 1/             0.0                  20.4       9.4       41.6   9.0       57.6   5.3        18.9   3.6                    138.5
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Resealing 1/                  0.0                  10.6        9.5      13.6  12.3       20.1  26.7        26.8  50.1       21.7  24.   92.8
Regravelling                  0.0                   2.5       6.4        8.1   8.8        11.4  11.5       14.4  44.8       27.2  23.   63.6
Low-cost improvement          0.0                   1.5       3.7        6.8   4.4         5.4   5.3        9.3  62.0       12.1  11.5  35.1
Total Malnt. PrmJect           0.0       0.0       14.6       19.6      28.5  25.5        36.9  38.2       50.5  156.9      61.0  58.8  191.
Contnibution to Rehab & Resi.
Pt ogr7.205W'D     0:X-. i: :i.t :::i :.0. .............   . 17.1      30.4             42.7             25.1              11.9
GQZv0,.' t";j4'--7&i-'0-  -  0.0         14.0                 24.8              35.0             20.6              9.8
Regular Maintenance                                40.0       44.0      46.0  57.9        51.0  69.2       86.7  127.8      85.5  140.4  309.2
Routine Maintenance                                21.5       24.2      26.0  28.0        32.0  34.0       39.0  42.4       45.0  50.0  163.5
Total Maintenance              0.0       0.0       76.1       87.8     100.5  111.4      119.9  141.4     176.2  327.1     191.5  249.2  664.2
1/ 55% finanoed by IBRD
I    rD
CL
-  H.
>x



Actual Number of Kms Rehabilitated and Maintained
Project Year                         1         2        3         4        5         Total (km)
Fiscal Year              1988/89 1989/90  1990191   1991/92   1992193   1993/94    Actual  Planned
Project Components                                                                        I
Rehabilitation                0.0     20.0      39.0      59.0     20.0              138.0   174.0
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Resealing                     0.0    355.0    206.4    273.0    281.5    211.0   1326.9    1500
Regravelling                  0.0    155.2    382.0    323.2    297.8    482.8   1641.0    1500
Low-cost improvement          0.0      79.0    254.7      84.5    134.0    138.5    690.7    1400
otal Maintenance                      589.2    843.1    680.7    713.3    832.3   3658.6  4400.0
I. >
x 
(D D3
MF4



Status of Legal Covenants
r-Jriginal    Revised
Covenant       Present        Futfillment   Fulfillment             Description of                   Comments
Agreement   Section      Type          Status           Date          Date                   Covenant
Loan          3.03(a)    Regulatory        CD           12/31/88      6/30/89    By December 31, 1988 (i) commercial    Complied with.
change                                              truck operators hauling agricultural
products during peak periods and
and (ii) those operating trucks with
capacities below 10 tons (a) within and
providing service (b) to. and from, the
communal Areas shall be exempted
from road servize permits.
Loan          3.03(b)    Regulatory        CP              12/31/89              By December 31, 1989, a system of     An amendment to the Act
change                                              licensing commercial fuck operators   has been approved by
based primarily on vehicle safety    Cabinet and is expected to
and managerial competence shall be   be considered by
introduced.                          Parliament during the
current session.
The Borrower shall
Loan          4.01 (a)        Audit        CD        Six months                   (i) have the project records and
after the end of            accounts, i-cluding those for the
each fiscal                 Special Accounts, for each fiscal
year                        year, audited, and
(ii) furnish to the Bank not later   Have been complied with
than six months after the end of     after delays for FY 89/90,
each fiscal year, the report of such  90/91 and 91/92. However,
audit.                               reports for FY 92/93 and
93/94 have not been
4 01(h)         Audit        CD        Six months                  For all expenditures for which        submitted.
after the end               withdrawals from the loan accaunts
of each fiscal              were made on the basis of statement
year.                       of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain records and accounts    Complied with.
reflecting such expenditures; and
(ii) ensure that such records and    Complied with.
accounts are included in the annual                                      t3
audit.                                                                   a,
l X >



Status of Legal Covenants
COriginal    Revised
Covenant       Present       Fulfillment    Fulfillment           Description of                  Comments
Agreement   Section      Type         Status          Date          Date                   Covenant                                        l
Loan               5 02 Financial                   Annual                     The Borrower shall review annually   CMED has been requesting
the hire rates the Central Mechanical  annual rate increases.
Equipment Department charges MOTE    However, when granted,
for equipment and vehicles, and     half of what was reqested
shall adjust such rates by not later  was granted. Hire rates
than August 1 each year, so as to   have not, then, met the
reflect the projected costs of     financial targets stipulated.
acquisition, repair and maintenance of
such equipment and vehicles for the
following year, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering, administrative
and financial practices.
Loan               5.03 Institutional     CD           12/31/88         6/30/89 The Borrower shall take all measures  Complied with
including carrying out the road
works on the basis of an appropriate
mix of contractors and MOTE
construction units. To that end, the
borrower shall prepare and submit
to the Bank for its review and
comments by not later than
December 31, 1988, an action
program designed to improve the
current organizational structure of
the MOTE construction units.
F3>
(D
2                                                                          >



Appendix B
GOVERNMENT OF ZIMBABWE
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND ENERGY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1.0   Introduction
Ever since 1980 when Zimbabwe gained independence, Government's policy objectives in
the road sector have been to:
(a)   provide adequate roads and transport services in communal areas; and
(b)   intensify construction and improvement of secondary and feeder roads in
rural areas so as to facilitate the economic integration of communal areas
into the modem sector.
In its endeavour to realise these objectives, the government entered into various agreements
with donor agencies. In 1981, the World Bank approved a loan agreement which resulted
in the successful implementation of the First Highway project which involved the
construction of the Pamushana Birchnough Bridge, Ndanga-Triangle, Range-Maradzano
and Chivhu Lothian roads. The project also included aid for training as well as for carrying
out a National Transport Study (NTS) and a National Feeder Road Study (NFRS).
When the First Highway Project was concluded in 1988, the Government had, through its
own resources as well as funds sourced from various donors, managed to upgrade more
than 4000 km of previously earth and gravel roads to all weather bituminous surfaced roads
thereby linking most communal areas with the largely commercial urban areas. The NTS
had also brought to light the need to increase investment in the road sector in order to
continue improvement of the transport services and at the same time protect the now ageing
primary and secondary network.
The Second Highway Project was started at around the same time as the First Highway
Project was concluded and had as its objective to address the aspect of preserving the
ageing primary roads.



Appendix B
2.0   Project Objectives
The objectives of the Second Highway Project were:
2.1 To strengthen the State Road network in commercial farming areas as well as in
communal lands by reducing the backlog of periodic maintenance of primary, secondary
and feeder roads.
2.2 To facilitate efficient road transport services and improve trucking services in
communal areas.
2.3 To preserve capital invested in the road network and through the first two objectives,
lower vehicle operating costs.
2.4   Project Description
The project included:
2.4.1 Rehabilitation and strengthening of 9 sections of paved roads totalling 175 km over
a period of five years.
2.4.2 Resealing of 1 500 km of primary roads over a period of four years.
2.4.3 Four year regravelling programme of 1,500 km of secondary and feeder roads.
2.4.4 Four year improvement programme of 1,400 km of secondary and feeder roads.
The World Bank through the loan agreement set aside US$32.7 million to be disbursed as
follows:
To cover 55 percent of the cost of Rehabilitation Works and Reseal Works and 75 percent
of the total supervision (Rehabilitation and Resealing) costs. A contingency of US$4.2
million was allocated to cover any shortfalls in the costs of foreign exchange components.
Costs for all work on low cost improvements and regravelling of gravel roads were to be
met by the Government of Zimbabwe.



Appendix B
Agreed details of the allocations of funds from the loan were as shown in Table 1 below.
The local cost component was to be provided for by the Government of Zimbabwe.
Table 1: Summary of Loan No. 2939 Allocation
%OF
DONOR            EXPENDITURE             GOZ
COMPONENT         TO BE FINANCED    COMPONENT
CATEGORY            (US$ MILLION)          BY BANK             (US$)*M
1. Civil Works
a) Rehabilitation            13.00                55                10.64
(175 km)
b) Resealing                 13.00                55                10.64
(1,500 km)
2. Consulting                 2.5                  75                 0.82
Services (A+B)
3. Unallocated                4.2
TOTAL                         32.7                 69                22.10
*  The loan agreement also provided for the  improvements of 1,400 km and the
regravelling of 1,500 km of feeder roads at an estimated cost of Z$18.0 million wholly
funded by the Government of Zimbabwe.
The consulting services allocation was split as follows:
Rehabilitation (A) = US$ 1.3 million
Resealing   (B) = US$ 1.2 million
2.5 Evaluation of project Objectives
2.5.1 The project objectives were formulated in line with Government policy in the road
sector. The objectives were in that respect very appropriate. The project target goals of
reducing periodic maintenance was not specific enough to enable evaluation of success or
failure of the program. It was necessary that the reduction should have been quantified. In
hindsight, it can be seen that by providing sufficient funding to reseal merely 1,500 km
of surfaced roads and targeting the improvement 2,900 km of gravel roads over a period
of five years the project was never going to reduce the backlog as each passing year the
need for periodic maintenance was bound to increase, as some of the roads previously in
good condition continued to deteriorate.
2.5.2 Low cost improvement and regravelling targets were quite realistic in terms of length
to be done each year. The total project length selected was good enough to result in the
improvement of transport services in the communal areas where the existing roads were
largely impassable during the rainy season. Successful completion of the regravelling and
improvement would improve the condition of approximately 30% of the state gravel road



Appendix B
network confirmed to be in a poor to fair condition during a road condition survey
conducted in 1988.
2.5.3 There was however a weakness in the project objectives in that the regravelling and
improvement programme was not to benefit from money provided under the loan
agreement but rather from funds provided by the GOZ. The GOZ while fully commnitted to
satisfying its obligations was under financial strain and had shown through previous
budgets that it could not set aside sufficient resources to meet the necessary maintenance
activities in the road sector.
2.5.4 The third objective of preserving the capital investment in the road sector and also
reduce total transport costs was a much more attainable aim. By providing financial support
for rehabilitation and for resealing, the project would ensure that those sections of road
rehabilitated or resealed would be protected from further deterioration and possible
collapse. Further the sections so treated would improve in roughness and result in savings
in routine maintenance costs thereby reducing total transport costs. The extent to which this
reduction in costs would be achieved could be measured by carrying out an economic
analysis before and after completing the project.
3.0   Project implementation
3.1 Project Programme and Achievement
The original project programme as well as the achieved progress were as shown in the table
below:
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Target Progress and Actual Progress
ORIGINAL TARGET           REVISED              ACTUAL
Dist. (km) Time(yrs)    Dist.(km) Time(yrs)  Dist.(km) Time(yrs)
Rehabilitation   175        5      1 138        5        138         6
Reseal        1500          4        1500       4       1327         5
Regravelling    1500        4        1500       4       1641         5
Improvement   1400          4        1400       4        691         5
Table 3.2 below also summarises the achievements as compared to the planned project
expenditures.



Appendix B
Table 3.2: Planned Versus Actual Progress of Expenditure
Appraisal Estimate US$M      Actual Costs US$M
Item                    local     foreign           local    foreign  total
costs     costs    total    costs    costs
Strengthen/ rehab. Paved  14.2    21.2      35.4    13.410   16.325   29.735
Roads (175 kin)
Resealing Paved Roads    13.3     19.9      33.2    10.999   13.444   24.443
(1500 kmn)
Regravelling (1500)    9.4         14.0     23.4     14.637            14.637
Low-Cost Improvement   6.0        6.1       12.1    7.637              7.672
(1400km)
Consulting Services     1.1       4.4       5.5     .610      1.82     2.430
Total Base             44.0       65.6      109.6
Contingencies           32.5      18.4      50.9
Total Project Cost      76.5      84.0      160.5   47.328   31.589   78.917
3.1.1 Discussion of Project Programme and achievements
3.1.1.1 The Rehabilitation Programme Physical Progress
The programme was revised down to 138 km largely because the borrower could not meet
the financial commitment required to carry out the entire programme in the time of 5
years. The programme was completed in six E jars and not the original five years because:
(a)   The pre-construction phase for most of the projects took more time than
anticipated due to the need to satisfy first local tender procedures and then
seeking Bank approval at least twice before awarding each contract.
(b)   The problem with assessment of rate of deterioration of distressed sections
of road over the period between completion of design and start of
construction. Because of this as well as (a) above, most sections of the
road needed much more strengthening work by the time construction work
started.



Appendix B
(c)   Impact of the severe drought in the years 1992 and 1993. Following the
drought, construction work was affected by shortage of water as well as a
cut in Government Public Sector Capital Investment financing to enable
Government to finance the supply of food to the drought hit communal
farmers.
Based on the constraints above, it has been evaluated that the rehabilitation programme was
implemented satisfactorily. It was also noticed that Zimbabwe did not have a well
documented design and specifications for rehabilitation work such that the project brought
with it very relevant experience in the design, supervision wnd execution of rehabilitation
work to both the implementing agency and the private sector.
3.1.1.2 Rehabilitation Programme Project Costs
The actual cost for the rehabilitation work increased from US$23,640 to US$29,735
million largely because the scope of work increased as described above and also because of
the inflationary effects of the decline in the value of the Zimbabwe dollar relative to the
major foreign currencies.
The draw downs from the loan provision remained considerably behind the project physical
progress. This was largely due to problems within the borrower's system of processing
applications which involved the use of accounting personnel not directly supervised by the
implementing agency. In March 1993 this problem was solved when the accounts office of
Ministry of Transport and Energy appointed an officer to deal with disbursements of donor
agencies.
3.1.1.3 The Reseal Programme: Physical Progress
The reseal programme was completed in five years and not four, because of the problems of
escalation of costs resulting from the Gulf War of 1991 and the devaluation of the
Zimbabwe dollar in 1992. In addition the Government of Zimbabwe under the strain of the
severe drought, could not increase allocations to enable implementation within the original
time scale.
3.1.14 The Regravelling and Improvement of Gravel Roads: Physical Progress
Regravelling and improvement projects were largely executed by force account units.
These units however were relying for 60% of their plant requirement on plant hire from the
private sector. Improvement projects required much more work than originally anticipated.
Only 691 km out the prograrmned 1,400 km were improved even though the cost
exceeded the planned cost.



Appendix B
3.1.1.5 Summary of Project Achievements
The successful implementation of the Second Highway Project has had a positive impact
on the maintenance backlog in terms of the reseal and regravelling programme. It managed
to sustain a reasonable level of investment into reseal and regravelling projects for the five
years of implementation. A more significant impact might have been realised had the
programme included co-funding of both regravelling and the low cost improvements as this
would have resulted in an increase in the level of funding for these operations and hence a
much more significant reduction in the periodic maintenance backlog.
The rehabilitation programme managed to set the tone for rehabilitation; providing the
necessary experience in both designing and execution of rehabilitation works. The 138 km
completed in six years signified negligible progress on the rehabilitation programme
because approximately 3,000 km of the road network was more than 30 years old and
close to 1000 km required immediate (i.e. within two to five years) strengthening. The
network by the end of the project was estimated to require rehabilitation of at least 150 to
250 km each year over a 7 to 10 year period so that the rehabilitation programme can be
completed before the relatively sound sections of the paved network also require
emergency intervention.
While the Government of Zimbabwe has now realised the need for rehabilitation works, it
is likely to take another three to five years before any meaningful programme may be
implemented unless further donor support is forthcoming. This is because the Government
cannot complete ongoing new construction and at the same time support a rehabilitation
programme from its own resources. The problem is compounded by the pressure from the
donor community for the government to reduce overall government expenditure and the
road sector, as long as it has not completely disintegrated, appears to be the first target
for budgetary cuts.
3.2   Compliance with Loan Covenants
3.2.1 Operator's licensing system
Requirements for fulfilling this obligation rested with the Traffic and Legislation
Department within MOTE and very little communication during the implementation period
existed between this Department and the Department of State Roads who handled the
rehabilitation and maintenance programme.
3.2.2 CMED
The covenant required that Government reviews CMED hire rates on an annual basis and
adjust them to reflect full costs of acquisition and operation. This requirement has been
difficult to fulfil as CMED continued to operate below required staff capacity and faced a
lot of internal management problems. Over the whole implementation period, CMED
managed to increase rates three times but even then, the rates remained much lower than



Appendoc B
rates for similar services from the private sector. By the end of the project the future of
CMED was still under debate but its performance was still poor.
3.2.3 Evaluation of Performance with Regard to Compliance with Loan Covenants
3.2.3.1 The reduction of construction units became one of the weaker points of the
project. What resulted was that in the first three years of  implementation, very few
contractors were available for the reseal contracts and for rehabilitation. These few
Contractors shared projects amongst themselves and overpriced their bids. Meanwhile force
accounts units which constituted some meaningful available capacity remained idle as
projects not linked to donor aid continued to be underfunded. Because force account units
had very little work, CMED faced a decline in demand for the few items of plant on hire
and continued to decline in their performance. The bank however relaxed original
conditions and allowed for work by force account on reseal work carried out in the 1993/94
financial year. The programme was successfully implemented.
3.2.3.2. By the end of the project the number of construction units had been reduced to
six units with a total labour force of 50 people each and relying heavily on private hire
services as opposed to nine units of average size 150 to 200 people each. This reduction
has come largely as a result of economic reform programme which saw the retrenchment of
4200 people from the Department of State Roads between 1992 and December 1994.
It would have been better to have required that all work undertaken by force account be
done through fair competition with the private sector. This could have improved the
performance of force account units and helped in restructuring the implementation agency
for privatisation.
3.2.4 Evaluation of Performance
The performance of the government has been evaluated as fair rather than good because:
(a)   The government failed to sustain a high enough level of funding for
maintenance over the implementing period;
(b)   The government obligation with regards to CMED was never seriously
addressed. It maybe noted that the Bank has not performed well in this
regard as its follow up on the issue was limited to reminders through Aide
Memoirs and no action being taken; and
(c)   The requirement to balance distribution of work between private contractors
and force account units was never achieved since all rehabilitation works
under the programme were as per bank requirement restricted to private
contractors when there was virtually no other construction work with
sufficient funding for the force account units to engage on. In line with
some institutional reforms supported by donor agencies, the implementing



Appendix B
agency had intentions of restructuring its remaining six units to operate in
competition with private contractors. This was made difficult by the
continued hardships in providing sufficient funding to support these units.
The overall performance of both the donor and the borrower has been supplied with
statistical tables provided for the ICR prepared by the bank.



Appendix C
ZIMBABWE
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 2939-ZIM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN*
Rehabilitation Program
Bulawayo-Beitbridge                    25%
Harare-Chirundu                        56%
Harare-Gweru (section 1)               46%
Harare-Gweru (section 2)               61%
Harare-Mutare                          25%
Mazowe-Bindura                         22%
Resealing Program
Bulawayo-Victoria Falls                163%
Harare-Shamva                          239%
Masvingo-Mbalambala                    156%
Skyline-Waterfalls                     139%
Regravelling Program
Kadoma-St. Oswalds (section 1)         72%
Kadoma-St. Oswalds (section 2)         35%
Lupane-Kana                            30%
Mvurwi-Kenyemba                        65%
Low-Cost Improvement
First Year Program                     236%
Second Year Program                    734%
*Data and detailed calculations are in the project file.






IBRD 20678
-       EJ    |~~~~~                       ~~~MALAWI                      28'                       i9              S          ->st--
ZAMBIA  ?  _  |
16'
NAMIBIA   \    ZIMBABWE             T
-21 Mc5OU llRos2TH                                                                                                                                                               A  L  vrD,>/ _< -sA 1
ScnAr Ftt Rod h(1g(\E<     I fCFwd A                                                                                                                                                                         17S
7'              M~~~~~~~~~1
-19,
>       h~~~'P~~'Nj  A          ~             c '
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJEC
-Rehabilitatio   RandRseaigL
Rehabiliy tateo Progadm
-   --  Other Roods                                                    t     >     l    \\                                           ~       \-          /    ~         <~ 
Rallwroys *)W a\ ,i  ,Ss7 >,
CoInstrnQt,ofl  doundaroes  P     Standard
O     SO           1    00          150 K,LOTMEIERS N-<\-sz"._s_
A                  SO ICMO MWrL ES
25'         Maio, Store Roads                                                                    W 29'A.3'D32'AJ3
21E-3E 5va






MALAWI                                           28-                                                  -                                 -                                      IBR  20679
ZAMBIA                                                                                                  .9J
< /~~~/   >                   \ C;4Jo/bto 0^. v                                                                                                                                                                       \lb__1
RIaA  \    ZIMBABWE   ,                                                                                                                                                                   -_
e9 r9 ^ i n u bs ts , p >e ment j z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =                                                                                                   MUAE                     I.
SECONDBHIGHA  PROJECTSW
Lw- Const Iuproemnt Prgo blmn;'edS   -,  
MAr SF ae RodsI  A
Secondary State Roods >4VAA\>\t. _  1
Cormnrvol Lands                                         -~_                                   >         -     -          
-2-Province BElundories Atm > /X3\R  me,ws
-5     Internaionl Boundaries                         N 2                                                                                                                                     7  7-
0            50        100         H50 KLOMEIERs                                                   ,...                       R                                  v0
Ov 50100 MILES                  |                                        j                    A. or.0        m.P P  ,_ - >    4A                  J8 Ov-iv
75-   26-      27-
ZIMBABVVE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEEBR16









MAG ING
Report No:       15192
Type: ICR



