Page  1
October 27, 1992
The Senior Minister
The Ministry of Finance
Munhumatapa Building
Samora Machel Avenue
Harare, Zimbabwe
Dear Sir,
     Re:  Loan Agreement (Second Highway Project) Loan No. 2939 ZIM
          Preference for Domestic Contractors
     Reference is made to the above-captioned Loan Agreement dated
August 24,  1988, as amended, (the Loan Agreement) between Zimbabwe
(Republic of Zimbabwe) (the Borrower) and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).
     Pursuant to a decision of the Executive Directors of the Bank,
I am pleased to inform you that the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors for contracts for works to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
published by the Bank in May 1992.
     In view of the foregoing, I hereby propose amendments to
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.   The reference to the date "May 1985" in Part A of said
Schedule 4 shall be amended to read "May 1992".
2.   A new Part B is added to said Schedule 4 which shall read as
     follows:
"Part B:  Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 of Section I of this Schedule, the Borrower
may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto".
3.   Accordingly, the present Parts B and C are relettered as Parts
C  and  D,  respectively.
     If you agree with the foregoing, please indicate your assent
thereto by signing the form of confirmation and agreement below,
whereupon this letter shall constitute, as of the date first above--
written, an amendment of the Loan Agreement.
Yours sincerely,
Stephen M. Denning
Director
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
CONFIRMED AND AGREED
REPUBLIC OF ZIMBABWE
Page  2
By
    Authorized Representative
