                                        Documentof
                                     The World Bank
                                    For Official Use Only


                                                                       ReportNo. 35033-AF




                      ADDITIONAL GRANT DOCUMENT




                INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




            PROPOSEDADDITIONAL GRANT OF SDR 21.O MILLION
                           (US$30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)




                 TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN



                                         FOR THE




              HEALTH SECTOR EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                     January 26,2006



HumanDevelopment Sector Unit
South Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            Currency Unit         =    Afghani
                            US$1                  =    48.65 Afghani
                            1Afghani              -    US$0.0206

                                GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR

                                       March21 -March20


                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ARDS Afghanistan Reconstruction and                MICS       MultipleIndicators Cluster Survey
     Development Services
BPHS Basic Packageof Health Services               MOPH       MinistryofPublic Health
CGHN Consultation Group of Health& Nutrition       MOPH-      MOPH-Strengthening Management
                                                   SM
CHWs Community HealthWorkers                       NGOs       Non-Governmental Organizations
DPT3 diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus             NRVA       National Risk & Vulnerability
                                                              Assessment
EPHS EssentialPackageof Hospital Services          PPAs       Performance-based Partnership
                                                              Agreements
GAVI Global Alliance for Vaccines &                SDR         Special Drawing Rights
     Immunization
GCMU Grant & Contract Management Unit              SOE         Statement of Expenditures
HFA  Health Facility Assessment                    TSS         Transitional Support Strategy
HHS  Household Survey                              TT          tetanus toxoid
HMIS HealthManagement InformationSystem            UNICEF      UnitedNations Children's Fund
IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction &       USAID       UnitedStatesAgency for Int'l
     Development                                               Development
IDA  International Development Association         WBI         World Bank Institute




                                    Vice President    Praful Pate1
                                  Country Director    Alastair McKechnie
                                    Sector Director   Julian Schweitzer
                                      Task Leader     BenjaminLoevinsohn

                                                AFGHANISTAN

     ADDITIONAL GRANT TO THE HEALTH SECTOR EMERGENCY
            RECONSTRUCTIONANDDEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                                 Table of Content


I.                                                                                                                                 2
I1.   Introduction.............................................................................................................
      Background and Rationale for Additional Financing inthe amount of US$30
      million.....................................................................................................................
        . .                                                                                                                        2
I11.  Proposed Changes...................................................................................................           5
IV.                                                                                                                                6
      Appraisal of Restructured or Scaled-up Project Activities .....................................
      Consistency with the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) ....................................
V.                                                                                                                                 7
VI.   Expected Outcomes ................................................................................................           9
VI1.                                                                                                                               9
VI11. FinancialTerms and Conditions for the Additional Financing ............................
      Benefits and Risks...................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                   10

Annexes

Annex 1: PROJECT COSTS ............................................................................................
Annex 2: MONITORING AND EVALUATION............................................................                                     11
                                                                                                                                   13
Annex 3: PROCUREMENT PLAN FORADDITIONAL GRANT................................                                                      14


                                 PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET




AdditionalFinancing

Borrower: Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Responsible agency: Ministry of Public Health
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)




Bank policies?
Have these been approved by Bank management?

Revised project development objectives/outcomes: These have not changed and remain the same
as the original project, Le., (i)
                                assist the MOPHto achieve its stated goals o f reducingthe rates o f
infant and child mortality, maternal mortality, child malnutrition, and fertility through expanding
delivery of the BPHS and increasing equity in the delivery o f services; (ii)strengthen the
Government by increasing MOPH's stewardship over the sector including a greater role in health
care financing, coordination o f partners, and overseeing the work o f NGOs; and (iii)     build the
capacity o f Afghan health workers to provide and manage health services.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any n e w safeguard policies? No




                     Source                           Local           Foreign             Total
Borrower

                                              2


I. Introduction


1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
additional grant in an amount o f SDR 21.0 million (US$30 million equivalent) to the
Islamic Republic o f Afghanistan for the Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and
Development Project (P078324), GrantNumberH043-AF.

2.      The proposed additional grant would help finance the costs associated with
scaling up and enhancing the impact o f a well performing project. The focus o f the
additional funding will be: (i)  expanding the coverage o f the basic package o f health
services (BPHS), and related activities that will directly affect child mortality; and (ii)
introducing a few new activities that will set the stage for future efforts related to
improving the performance of the health sector particularly enhancing the quality o f
hospital services, building human resources, and strengtheningkey stewardship functions
o f the Government.

3,      More specifically, the additional financing will be used to: (i)expand the
coverage o f the BPHS into rural areas not currently being served, through new
performance-based partnership agreements (PPAs) that will cover about 1.15 million
people. It will also extend the Ministry o f Public Health (MOPH) delivery o f services
through the M O P H strengthening mechanism (MOPH-SM) and existing PPAs for
another 18 months (from September 30, 2006 to March 31, 2008); (ii)          support mass
immunization campaigns aimed at eradicating polio and controlling measles and neonatal
tetanus; (iii)begin activities aimed at systematically strengthening the management o f
hospitals; and (iv) enhance capacity building activities in the M O P H particularly related
to training more female front-line health workers and further strengthen the MOPH's
ability to track performance o fthe sector.

4.      The task team is seeking co-financing opportunities, however, even if co-
financing i s not arranged the additional grant i s being designed in consultation with all
the major stakeholders inthe sector.

11. Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancinginthe amount of US$30
      million.
5.      Background and Objectives: The original project was approved on June 5,
2003. The initial grant o f SDR 43.7 million became effective on July 17, 2003, with a
closing date o f March 31, 2007. The development objectives o f the original project will
continue to guide the additional grant as well. The objectives are to: (i) the MOPH
                                                                         assist
to achieve its stated goals o f reducing the rates o f infant and child mortality, maternal
mortality, child malnutrition, and fertility through expanding delivery o f the BPHS and
increasing equity inthe delivery o f services; (ii)
                                                  strengthen the Government by increasing
MOPH's stewardship over the sector including a greater role in health care financing,
coordination of partners, and overseeing the work o fNGOs; and (iii)  buildthe capacity of
Afghan healthworkers to provide and manage health services.

                                              3


6.     To accomplish these objectives the original project has the following components:

  (i)ExpansionofBasicHealthServices:Theprojectsupportstheimplementationof
       the BPHS through PPAs which are contracts that the MOPH has signed with
       NGOs. These PPAs cover eight under-served provinces in the north, north-west
       and south-west o f the country. The project also supports the government's own
       efforts at delivering the BPHS in three provinces close to Kabul through the
       MOPH-SM;

  (ii)Equippingthe RuralHealthInfrastructure:Initially this component was to
       provide equipment to new health centers that were being built by other partners
       (particularly USAID). As the Government o f Japan provided equipment to these
       facilities, the Bank funds have beenusedto procure furniture.

  (iii) Tests ofImportantInnovations:The project is supportingtwo impact
       Pilot
       evaluations. One o f the studies i s field testing the impact on diarrhea incidence o f
       tube wells, hygiene promotion, and point-of-use water treatment using dilute
       sodium hypochlorite. The other study i s looking at the impact on utilization,
       patient satisfaction, and community involvement resulting from free services, user
       charges set by the community, and pre-payment scheme known as the
       "community health fund."

  (iv) Capacity Buildingand Training: The project has helpedbuildcapacity through:
       (a) strengthening the link between the MOPH and the provincial health
       departments by providing high frequency radios for voice-data communications;
       (b) training o f key managers and provincial health directors through courses
       (including the WBI flagship course on health sector reform) and on-going training
       provided by NGOs and international consultants; (c) provision o f technical
       assistance for the MOPH, primarily by local consultants, in a large number o f
       areas including contract and grant management, health care financing, monitoring
       and evaluation, and donor and NGO coordination; and (d) carrying out nation-
       wide health facility assessments aimed at improving quality o f care and
       availability o f services.

7.     ProjectImplementationExperience:The project is rated highly satisfactory for
both achievement o f development objectives and implementation progress. The MOPH
and its partners have made significant progress in delivering the BPHS in the 11
provinces financed by the project. Health management information system (HMIS) data
suggests that the number o f outpatient visits has tripled over the last year and other
indicators have also increased substantially (see table 1).These improvements have taken
place even inprovinces where the security situation has been unstable, demonstrating the
commitment of the NGOs to provide services under very adverse conditions. The results
observed make sense given the 66% increase in the number o f functioning basic and
comprehensive health centers, the increase inthe number o f facilities with trained female
health workers (from 25% at baseline to 62% now), and deployment o f thousands o f

                                             4


community health workers (CHWs). Disbursementi s 52% after 64% elapsed time and all
grant covenantshave been complied with.

      Table 1: HMISData on Key IndicatorsCorrectedfor Under-Reporting-
        WeightedMeanof 8 PPAProvincesQuarter 12004 vs. Quarter 12005




8.      Third Party Assessment: A third party assessment of health facilities showed a
10.7 percentage point improvement in a comprehensive quality o f care index in PPA
provinces from September2004 to May 2005. This was a much larger improvement than
the task team expected and resulted in four NGOs earning performance bonuses. During
this same period the improvement inthe three provinces where the MOPH-SM is being
implemented averaged only 1.3 percentage points. This was likely the result of the
MOPH-SM starting later (September, 2004) and managers having to concentrate on
ensuring facilities were staffed and supplied. While there is clearly much more to do in
terms of further increasing coverage o f services and improving the quality o f care in PPA
and MOPH-SM provinces, there i s objective evidence that important progress has already
been made.

9.      Rationale: The Government has requested the additional financing to further
enhance the development impact o f the project. The rationale for the specific components
to be financed with the additional grant are:

(i) ExtensionandExpansionofthe BPHS: The Grants andContract Management
Unit (GCMU) in the MOPH through its analysis o f existing activities (which it
coordinates) has found that there are at least 1.15 million people without access to the
BPHS. The MOPH wants to ensure that the entire rural population has access to these
services. The Government also feels that the PPAs and MOPH-SM are showing good
progress and want to ensure that these models of service delivery are provided sufficient
time to show what they can accomplish under operational conditions. Hence, it wishes to
extend the closing date o f the PPA contracts and MOPH-SM from September 30, 2006 to
March 31,2008.

 (ii) PolioEradicationandMeaslesNeo-NatalTetanusControl: Thepolioeradication
program has been successful in reducing the number of polio cases inthe country to just
four in 2005. By contrast, a 1997 household survey found that polio was a more
important cause of disability than land mines. As part o f the global effort to eradicate
polio, the MOPH has committed to have zero cases in Afghanistan within the next two
years. Given the reduction in the number o f reported cases, the establishment o f a
functioning disease surveillance system, and the added benefit o f providing Vitamin A

                                               5


supplements to young children, the MOPH sees polio eradication as a high priority.
Measles remains one o f the major contributors to child mortality. Despite earlier mass
vaccination campaigns outbreaks o f measles have been reported during 2005, especially
in southern and eastern parts of the country. Neonatal tetanus also contributes to infant
mortality. According to a 2005 survey 27% o f all newborn deaths were due to neonatal
tetanus in Badakhshan, 30% in Kandahar and 31% in Kundoz. Thus, the MOPH would
like to carry out additional mass measles/neonatal tetanus vaccination campaigns.

(iii) Beginningto StrengthenHospitalManagement: TheMOPHhasevolvedaplan
for improving hospital services through the essential package o f hospital services
(EPHS). The EPHS establishes the set o f services that should be available at different
levels o f hospitals. Making significant in-roads into reducing maternal mortality and
dealing with catastrophic illnesses will require well-functioning hospitals. Unfortunately,
the hospitals inAfghanistan currently provide low quality o f care, mostly reflecting poor
management. The inadequate quality o f hospital care has also attracted political attention
and has become a high profile issue. Hence, the MOPH wants to begin addressing
hospital management issues systematically

(iv)    Enhancing Stewardship Functions, Including Capacity Building:There i s an acute
shortage o f female health workers, particularly those can provide reproductive and child
health services. While there are more than 300 community mid-wives currently being
trained, there i s clearly need for more to be available to work in rural areas. More
broadly, there i s still considerable need for capacity building o f M O P H staff, despite the
efforts o f many development partners to deepen skills and provide exposure to recent
advances inhealth care. The MOPHhas also recognized the need to further strengthen its
ability to track the performance o f the health sector, a stewardship function that it i s
uniquely placedto carry out.

111.    ProposedChanges


10.     Extension and Expansion of the BPHS: The additional grant will finance the
expansion of the PPA approach inwhich NGOs compete for contracts with the MOPH to
deliver the BPHS. The eight new areas (clusters) that will be covered are not currently
being served and contain about 1.15 million people in remote and sometimes insecure
parts o f the country (including Paktika and Paktiya). The new PPA areas have been
selected by the M O P H in coordination with other partners (particularly USAID) and
generally represent districts where no clinics have been established and where health
services have rarely been provided. The clusters vary in size from 65,000 to 230,000
population and, except in one case, represent groups o f districts, rather than whole
provinces. The MOPH may implement the BPHS in some o f these clusters using the
MOPH-SM ifNGOs are not available or where NGOs could not begin services soon. The
additional grant will also allow currently existing PPAs that cover 7 provinces to be
continued for another 18 months as well as expand one PPA, in Badghis Province, to
cover the whole province, instead o f the current three out of seven districts. When the
new PPAs are signed, almost five million people will be receiving the BPHS from PPA

                                               6


NGOs. The additional grant will support the continuation o f the MOPH-SM in three
provinces near Kabul with an estimated population o f 1.1 million.

11.     Polio Eradication and Measles/Neo-NatalTetanus Control: The additional
financingwill provide $6 millionto support polio eradication efforts. The MOPHplansto
carry out 4 rounds o f National Immunization Days and 4 rounds of Subnational
Immunization Days in2006 and 2007 which will also provide Vitamin A supplementsto
children 9 to 60 months old. The additional grant will also provide $2 million to support
measles and neo-natal tetanus campaigns aimed at significantly reducing the threat to
child survival that these diseases represent. The funding will be used to procure vaccine,
needles, and syringes, through UNICEF, while operational costs are picked up by other
partners.

12.     Beginning to Strengthen Hospital Management: The additional grant will
finance a series of annual hospital performance assessments to be carried out by a third
party. These assessments will provide the MOPH with independent information about
quality o f care, utilization, equity, and availability o f inputs in all district and provincial
level hospitals in the country. By tracking hospital performance, the M O P H will be able
to judge the effectiveness o f ongoing efforts by the MOPH itself and USAID to
strengthen hospital management and make course corrections. The supplement will also
finance the recruitment of an international hospital policy consultant to assist the MOPH
over the next two years.

13.     Enhancing Stewardship Functions, Including Capacity Building: The
additional funding will support the training o f approximately 200 new community mid-
wives and about 1,000 new community health workers (CHWs). The MOPH will carry
out a survey o f central and provincial MOPH managerial staff that examines what they
think they've learned inthe last few years, what things they would like to learn, andwhat
sorts o f thing they likely need to learn in order to be effective managers. The results o f
the survey will guide future capacity building efforts. The additional grant will continue
to fund monitoring and evaluation activities and the building o f central and provincial
government capacity.

14.     Additional Financing: The new activities are estimated to cost a total of $30
million. The breakdown by component i s shown inthe Table 1 inAnnex 1.

15.     Allocationof Grant Proceeds The Table 2 inAnnex1 indicates the allocation of
the proposed additional grant as well as the reallocation of part o f the proceeds o f the
initial grant.

 16.    ClosingDate: The revised grant closing date will be March 31, 2008, Le., a 12
month extension.

IV.     Consistencywith the TransitionalSupport Strategy(TSS)
 17.    The extension and the expansion of the BPHS is aligned to the TSS goal o f
"providing basic services to the population". This activity will guarantee increased access
to health services and will contribute to improved health indicators particularly in under-

                                              7


servedareas. The management o f PPAs and MOPH-SMby the government also responds
to the TSS goal o f "enhancing government effectiveness". By strengthening the
stewardshiprole o f the government, the project will further build the capacity o f Afghan
authorities and facilitate the transition from emergency activities to a long term
development effort. Proposed activities will also take advantage o f "private sector
dynamism": a more competitive market inthe health sector i s expected to further improve
the availability and quality of health services inthe country. Thus the proposed activities
are fully consistent with the current TSS.


 V.     Appraisal of Restructuredor Scaled-upProjectActivities
18.     Technical Considerations: The PPAs have been under implementation for
between 1.5 and 2 years but appear to have achieved considerable improvements in both
the coverage of services and the quality of care. This is consistent with the results from
other countries. A recent review o f global experience found that contracting with non-
state providers (primarily NGOs) generated better results than government provision o f
the same services. Part o f the reason for the success of the NGOs has been their
responsiveness to criticisms, their flexibility, and generally better morale. For example,
during the mid-term review o f the project, concern was expressed about the slow
expansion o f BPHS services in one province. In response, the PPA N G O introduced
mobile teams, established "satellite" clinics, and recruited additional female staff which
resultedin more than doubling o f out-patient visits. Evenlarger increases were observed
for prenatal care (a four-fold increase) and family planning acceptors (a five-fold
increase). Inonly one o f eight PPAs was NGO performance clearly sub-optimal and the
MOPH decided to terminate that particular contract.

19.     The MOPH-SMhas been inplace for just over a year and so it may not yet be fair
to compare its performance with the PPAs. Thus it makes sense to give both the MOPH-
SMandthe PPA approaches more time to see what they canachieve. The MOPH-SM has
been designed to maximize its opportunities for success and it has distinct advantages
over normal government provision o f services, including: (i)     wages for health workers
are as high as what the NGOs are paying; (ii)competition from the NGOs set the
standard for what can be accomplished; (iii)     slightly more financial resources than the
NGOs; (iv) proximity to Kabul and stable security conditions; (v) assistance from a
procurement agent on procurement; and (vi) talented managerial support (recruited from
the NGO sector) for the provincial health directors. The MOPH-SM faces challenges in
absorptive capacity and so it will be interesting to see whether it can ramp up its
performance over time.

20.     Economic Aspects: The BPHS that the MOPH has emphasized makes economic
sense in the context o f Afghanistan. It contains the most cost-effective interventions and
ones that the Government will be able to afford in the long run. The focus on reducing
child mortality and fertility rates will also help facilitate long-term economic growth as
witnessed by the history o f the newly industrialized economies o f East Asia where
significant declines in both indicators preceded economic take-off. Contracting with
NGOs appears to be an efficient use o f resources, at least partly because? it reduces
absorptive capacity constraints. The approach also appears to be sustainable. The cost o f

                                             8


deliveringthe BPHS through PPAs i s less than $4 per capita per year, or roughly 1.6% of
the current per capita GDP. As the economy grows and Government revenues expand,
the cost o f the PPAs will be affordable by the Government, even if external assistance
were to be reduced.

2I, InstitutionalArrangements:The original project i s being managed by the grants
and contracts management unit (GCMU) o f the MOPH and the activities under the
additional grant will use the same approach. The role o f the G C M U was originally
envisaged to be coordination and oversight o f NGOs who are implementingthe BPHS
through out the country. It was also intended to manage the PPAs financed by the Bank.
Inaddition to these original functions, the GCMU is now also carryingout the following:
(i) providing technical assistance to many line departments inthe MOPH; (ii) assisting in
the implementation of GAVI and Global Fund activities; (iii) coordination; (iv)
                                                                donor
chairing and carrying out the secretariat functions for the Consultative Group for Health
andNutrition (CGHN) and other partner coordination efforts; and (v) a variety o f policy
related activities such as guiding the technical working groups on health care financing
and human resource development.

22.     The GCMU has performed quite well since its inception two and a half years ago.
The senior management of the MOPH has expressed their confidence inthe GCMU. The
European Commission has decided to course their funds through the MOPH, partly
reflecting confidence in the GCMU's ability to properly manage contracts and accounts.
USAID is exploring a similar approach. The GCMU also has a good reputation among
other parts o f the Government and development partners in terms of policy analysis and
donor coordination.

23.     Procurement: The project procurement management has been generally
satisfactory. Recruitment o fNGOs (which accounts for the bulk o f the project financing),
thirdparty assessment firm, and individualconsultants has been effectively carried out by
the GCMU. The GCMU has beenassisted by ARDS-in the procurement of goods such as
radios and pharmaceuticals. For the new activities funded under the additional grant the
following procurement methods will be used: (i)    for the new PPA NGOs fixed budget
                                                                           -
selection; (ii)drugs, equipment, and supplies? for the MOPH-SM - international
competitive bidding; (iii) assessment o f hospital performance - modification of existing
contract with Johns Hopkins University; and (iv) vaccines, needles and syringes and
related materials for polio, measles and neonatal tetanus campaigns - procured through a
direct contract with UNICEF. Procurement o f these last items through direct contract
with UNICEF is justified because it purchases most o f the vaccine for developing
countries and has specialized knowledge in vaccine supply chain management. This
approach has been usedina large number o f Bank projects. A more detailed procurement
plandeveloped by the GCMU is inAnnex 3. All threshold limits stipulated inSchedule 3
o f the original development grant agreement will remain unchanged.

24.     Financial Management: Project financial management has been generally
satisfactory    and appropriate financial management mechanisms are in place. The
external audit reports submitted by the PPA NGOs have been acceptable and have not
shown any serious problems. A few changes will be introduced to further strengthen

                                               9


financial management, including monthly submission o f statements o f expenditures
(SOEs) to the Ministry o f Finance and regular field visits by GCMU financial
management staff to various provinces.

25.      Safeguards andBankPolicies:The activities to be financed under the additional
grant do not trigger any additional safeguard policies and no exceptions to Bank policies
are required. The environmental policies implemented by the MOPH under the original
project appear to be having real benefits. The third party assessment found proper
disposal o f sharps in 46% o f health facilities studied in September, 2004. This increased
to 76% o f health facilities inMay, 2005.

VI.      ExpectedOutcomes
26.      The activities under the additional grant are aimed at scaling up the project
impact. Another 1.15 million people will have access to BPHS and about three million
children and five million women will be protected from vaccine-preventable diseases.
The quality o f care in hospitals will begin to improve which will have an impact on the
hundred o f thousands o f patients who are admitted to public hospitals. Annex 2 lists the
key performance indicators and means o fmeasurement. Mucho f the data will come from
nation-wide household surveys similar to the multiple indicator cluster survey (MICS)
conducted in September, 2003 which will serve as the baseline. This survey provided
estimates o f output variables (e.g. prenatal care coverage) representative at the provincial
level and outcome variables (e.g. under-five mortality rate) available at the national level.
Follow on data using the same questions and sampling approach as the MICS has been
collected through the 2005 National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment (NRVA)
conducted in May 2005 (data i s being entered and will soon be available for analysis).
The NRVA will be repeated in 2007 and will provide end-line data for the project.
Annual health facility assessments carried out by a third party will look at quality o f care
indicators inthe whole country and will continue until 2007. Smaller scale health facility
assessments will be conducted betweenthe annual surveys in the PPA and MOPH-SM
provinces.

VII.     BenefitsandRisks
27.      Benefits:The main benefits o f the additional grant will be improved health for a
population o f nearly 6 million in various rural areas o f the country, many of which are
now seriously under-served. The improved health services will likely reduce child and
maternal mortality rates, decrease fertility rates, and reduce health-induced financial
shocks to poor families. Better access to services i s expected to have a particularly
beneficial effect on women who, as a result, may also have increased health and
reproductive choices. The project will also increase the number o f skilled health workers,
particularly females, and strengthen the managerial capacity o f the health care system.

28.      Security Risks: The security situation inAfghanistan remains precarious and this
poses a risk to all development activities, particularly those that involve working inrural
areas and considerable movement (e.g. delivering drugs, conducting outreach activities,
and supervision). Some o f the existing provinces and expansion provinces or clusters are
facing very difficult security situations. For example, a local NGO, IbnSina, working in

                                             10


Helmand province, recently had three o f their clinics destroyed or closed by insurgents;
two o f their supervisors were also killed which caused 70% o f their staff to resign.
Remarkably, IbnSina was able to fill these positions again and continued delivering
services. The project will continue to foster partnerships with committed NGOs, like
IbnSina, which have a good track record indelivering services indifficult locations.

29.     Political Risks: There has been considerable political opposition to NGOs in
general, and this has also been felt inthe health sector. For a variety o f complex reasons,
there are strong feelings in some quarters that the Government should deliver the bulk o f
services. The project will help mitigate opposition to NGO provision o f services by
ensuring that rigorous data i s collected so that the debate can be evidence-based. If the
MOPH-SM performs well the approach can be expanded to other areas. The MOPH and
the Bank have also agreed that performance bonuses will be provided to provincial health
directors and their staff in provinces where the coverage and quality o f services has
significantly improved. This will help align the incentives o f the provincial MOPH staff
with those o f the NGOs (and the community).

VIII. FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor the AdditionalFinancing
The additional financing will be on standard IDA grant terms.

                                        11


                           ANNEX1:PROJECTCOSTS




Component                                  FY06 FY07  FY08 Total %
Extension and Expansionofthe BPHS            2.0  8.1   6.0 16.1 54
Polio Eradication and Measles/Neo-Natal      1.o  4.0   3.0  8.0 27
Tetanus Control
Beginning to StrengthenHospital Management   0.1  0.4   0.3  0.7 2
Enhancing Stewardship Functions, Capacity    0.4  1.7   1.3  3.4 11
Building
Contingencies                                0.2  0.9   0.7  1.8  6
                    Total                    3.8  15.0 11.3 30.0 10
                                                                  0

                                              12


                   Table 2: Allocationby Category of Expenditure-SDR

                         Amount of the Initial  Amount of the Additional
                            Grant Allocated         Grant Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in            (Expressed in         Expenditures
       Category            SDR Equivalent)         SDREquivalent)        to be financed


(1) Goods
(a) under Part A.2                 2,540,000          2,030,000              100%
     of the Project


(b) under other                 1,340,000             6,580,000              100%
     Parts of the
     Project

~~




(2) Consultants'
      services,audits
      and training
(a) under Part A.2
      of the Project               2,780,000           770,000               100%


(b) under other Parts               5,440,000          770,000               100%
      of the Project

(3) Incremental                     1,160,000          350,000               100%
      Operating
      costs
(a) under Part A.2 of
      the Project
 (b) under other Parts                440,000          630,000                100%
      of the Project

  (4) Sub-grants                  29,700,000           8,6 10,000           100% of
                                                                            amounts
                                                                          disbursedby
                                                                             MOH

  (5) Unallocated                     300.000          1.260.000

        TOTAL                     43.700.0 00        21.000.000

                                                13


                       ANNEX2: MONITORINGAND EVALUATION

        TABLE1:KEY PERFORMANCEINDICATORS AND MEANSMEASUREMENT           OF

                                                Target for        Current Status         Meansof
                                                   end of                               measuring
I---+                                             Project                                 indicator
                                                20%             2005 data will


 2. Maternal mortality ratio  1600/100,000
                                                reduction
 3, Contraceptive             5.1%'             15%          I1 2005 data will        1 H H S
 Prevalence Rate - % o f                                        soon be available
 women 15-49 years                                              from NRVA
 currently usinga family
 planning method
 [modern]
 4. Treatment success rate    80% (reported     85%             Unknown                 HFA &
 among TB cases detected      but unlikely)                                           I H M I S
 (cohort analysis)
 5. Proportion of children 6  90 %3             90%             NIDsurveys              H H S &
 to 59 months that have                                         suggest greater         H M I S
 received Vitamin A                                             than 90%. 2005
 supplement within last 6                                       data will soon be
 months.                                                        available from
                                                                NRVA
 6. DPT3 coverage among        19.5%3           55%             64% from HMIS,          H H S &
 children 12-23 months.                                         2005 H H S data         H M I S
                                                                will soon be
                                                                available from
                                                                NRVA
 7. Provider knowledge         51%                              Will be available       HFA
 score (% correct answers)                                      shortly from
                                                                09/20b5 HFA
 8. Increase in the % o f     24.8%             80%             62% (HMIS)              HFA &
 health facilities with
 women health workers.                                         I                       IHM1s
I9. Number o f                                   1.o             0.71 from H M I S      H M I S &
 consultations per person    I 0.23                                                     H H S
 per year                                                      I                       I             I
 NOTE: The targets in this table are meant to be indicative and not exact. What will matter is
 significant progress along these parameters inthe project area.
   These are nation-wide estimates, estimates for individual provinces have been calculated where
 possible.
   World Development Indicators, 2004
    MICS 2003, rural median as calculated by JHU.
 HHS=household survey, HMIS=health management information system, HFA=health facility
 assessment carried out by M O P Hwith assistance from JKU

                                               14



                      Table 2: ManagementIndicatorsfor the Project

                                                                CurrentStatus


10. Coverage of antenatal care -% I 4.6%'       35%            59% from H M I S  H H S & Hh4IS
,
o f all pregnant women receiving at                            2005
least one antenatal care visits.
11. Proportion of pregnant women     3 1.5%'    60%            2005 data will    H H S & H M I S
receiving at least two doses of                                soonbe available
tetanus toxoid                                                 from NRVA
12. Proportion of births attended    6%'        16%            9.6% from         H H S & H M I S
by skilled attendants (excluding                               H M I S 2005
trained TBAs)
13. TB case detection rate (number 23%          50%            32% from H M I S  HFA& HMIS
of sputum positive cases detected                              2005
as % of target based on estimated
            -
prevalence, i.e., case-finding.)
14. % of children 6-18 months        67.8%'     75%            2005 data will    H H S
who received breast milk and                                   soon be available
appropriate complementary food                                 from NRVA
inthe last 24 hours.
15. % of children 0-6 who were      182%'       90%            2005 data will    H H S
exclusively breast fed inthe last 24                           soon be available
hours.                                                         from NRVA
16.Proportion of parents able to                               2005 data will    HHS&HMIS
spontaneously name the dangers                                 soon be available
signs of diarrhea and ART and the                              from NRVA
appropriate response.
17.Measles coverage among            75.6%'     85%            2005 data will    H H S & HMIS
children 12-23 months.              I                          soon be available
                                                               from NRVA
18. Score out of 100 on the          44.8       55             53.7 inPPA        HFA
"balanced scorecard" which                                     provinces, 46.1
summarizes quality o f care in                                 inMOPH-SM
BHCs and CHCs                                                  provinces
19.Decrease invariation between      N a        50%            2005 data will    H H S
clusters in HHS interms o f                     decrease       soon be available
coverage of basic services (Le.                 from           from NRVA
reduction invariance)                           baseline
20. Number of CHWs per 1,500         N a                       Not known.        H M I S
population submitting monthly
reoorts
NOTE: The targets in this table are meant to be indicative and not exact. What will matter is
significant progress along these parameters inthe project area.
HHS=household survey, HMIS=health management information system, HFA=health facility
assessmentcarried out by MOPHwith assistancefrom JHLT.
MICS 2003, rural median as calculated by JHU.

            15




                          c




                      C4       3
                      22;      33



                          9
                          3
                          3
                          N
                          $
                          i
                          8
                         h



       m   m
       a,  a,    0             3
       >I >I     Z             c




0      0
       0
0
8      0
       0,
       b
c\1
c\1    3
fr4    w
                                 .-.C




