Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H384-AF 
GRANT NUMBER H206-AF 
GRANT NUMBER H043-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Additional Financing for Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and 
Development Project and Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 8, 2008 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 8, 2008, entered into between ISLAMIC 
 
REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).   
This Agreement: (i) sets out the terms and conditions related to the Second 
Additional Financing for the Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and Development 
Project; and (ii) amends specific provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
(herein referred to as the Original Financing Agreement, as such term is defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement). 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Original Financing 
Agreement, the Appendix to this Agreement and the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE II – FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twelve million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,200,000) 
(the 
“Grant”) to assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (the “Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is US Dollars. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through MOPH in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV – EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Pashtunistan Watt 
Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan  
 
Facsimile: 
 
0093-20-210-3258 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  5
-
3
-
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By  
 
/s/ Anwar-ul Haq Ahady     
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ Ludmilla Butenko     
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist the MOPH to achieve its stated 
goals of reducing the rates of infant and child mortality, maternal mortality, child 
malnutrition, and fertility through expanding delivery of the BPHS and increasing equity 
in the delivery of services; (ii) increasing MOPH’s stewardship over the sector including 
a
greater role in health care financing, coordination of partners, and overseeing the work 
of NGOs; and (iii) build the capacity of Afghan health workers to provide and manage 
health services.  
 
The Project consists of the Original Project. 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A
.
The implementation arrangements contained in the Original Financing 
 
Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
 
B
.
Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods
.
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods
.
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used.  
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)  
Shopping 
(c)  
Direct Contracting 
(d)  
Procurement from United Nations Agencies 
*
National Competitive Bidding
 procedures shall be subject to the following 
additional procedures:
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(ii) 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) 
shall be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder 
shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any 
hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(viii) 
All bidders shall provide bid security or a bid security declaration form 
as indicated in the bidding documents. A bidder’s bid security or the 
declaration form shall apply only to a specific bid. 
(ix) 
Bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
(xi) 
Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. 
When two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation 
shall be made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: 
(A) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified 
and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and 
qualified bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, 
then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the 
Association. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
(xiii) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(xvi) Re-
bidding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it 
was furnished. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Pro
curement of Consultants’ Services 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
2.
 Other 
Methods
 of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)   
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)   
Single-Source Selection 
(c)   
Least-Cost Selection 
(d)   
Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)   
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
Page  11
-
9
-
D
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; 
(b) all contracts for goods procured on the basis of Direct Contracting regardless 
of value; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more; and (e) all contracts for consultants’ services by firms and individuals 
procured on the basis of Single-Source Selection regardless of value.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  12
-
10 -
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant   
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 (inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)  Goods 
(a) under Part A.2 of the Project 
 
(b) under other Parts of the 
Project 
 
700,000 
100% 
(2)  
Consultants’services, audits and 
training  
 
(a)  under Part A.2of the Project 
(b)  under other Parts of the 
Project 
 
130,000 
 
1,200,000 
100% 
(3) Incremental Operating Costs 
 
(a) under Part A.2 of the Project 
 
(b) under other Parts  of the 
Project 
 
150,000 
100% 
(5) Sub-grants 
7,990,000 
100% of amounts 
disbursed by MOH 
(6) Unallocated 
2,030,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
12,200,000
 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the 
incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation and management, 
including the installation, operation and maintenance of vehicles, computers and office 
equipment, communication and insurance costs, office administration costs, bank 
charges, utility charges, domestic travel and per diem, but excluding salaries of officials 
of the Recipient’s civil service.  
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  13
-
11 -
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
5. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for the 
Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and Development Project between the 
Recipient and the Association, dated June 29, 2003, as amended (Grant No. H043 
and Grant No. H206).  
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Financing Agreement. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 18, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
Section II.   
Amendments to the Original Financing Agreement
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as follows: 
 
1. 
The Project development objective set out in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Financing Agreement is amended to read as set out in Schedule 1 to this 
Financing Agreement. 
 
Page  14
-
12 -
 
2. 
The Closing Date as set out in Section 2.03 of the Original Financing Agreement 
is hereby extended to June 30, 2009. 
 
All other terms of the Original Financing Agreement remain the same. 
 
