Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5333 
Operation Name 
Mongolia - Development Policy Credit 2 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Other social services (25%); Banking (25%); Central government 
administration (25%); Mining and other extractive (25%) 
Project ID 
P117421 
Borrower(s) 
MONGOLIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
February 17, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 10, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 22, 2010 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Following on from the 2009 DPC, this Development Policy Credit (DPC2) is designed to assist the 
government manage the current downturn, which was triggered by the collapse of the copper price, and 
support the economic recovery. The DPC supports reforms in the policy areas most affected: (i) fiscal 
policy and management, given the budget’s strong dependence on mining revenues; (ii) social 
protection, given the impact of the economic downturn on the poor and the fiscal need for reform; (iii) 
the financial sector, which was overheating when the global crisis hit, and which is increasingly 
experiencing a solvency crisis; and (iv) the mining sector, given the sector’s importance in driving the 
recovery. 
The policy areas supported in this DPC are consistent with those in the 2009 DPC and are based on the 
same rationale and support the continued efforts of the government to use the crisis as opportunity to put 
an improved policy framework in place going forward. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
This Development Policy Credit (DPC) supports the continued efforts of the government to use the 
crisis as an opportunity to improve macro and fiscal sustainability in a mineral-based economy, protect 
the poor and vulnerable, restore confidence in the financial sector, and encourage transparent and 
prudent mining investments. This includes: (i) improving capital budget planning and execution, and 
protecting the maintenance of basic infrastructure; (ii) protecting the poor during the downturn by 
retargeting existing social policies to the poor; (iii) strengthening confidence in the financial sector by 
completing the proposed special bank assessments and adoption by the Bank of Mongolia of a 
comprehensive bank restructuring strategy; (iv) further improving the policy framework for mining by 
revising the regulation on operations and processes of the Mining Cadastre, submitting the requirements 
for the International EITI Board to assess the compliance of Mongolia’s national EITI program, and 
improving transparency by placing online a new searchable Environmental Impact Assessment database 
for mining and other projects. This operation forms the second of two single-tranche DPCs (FY09 and 
FY10) which form the centerpiece of the 2009 Interim Strategy Note (ISN) on the World Bank Group’s 
program of engagement in Mongolia. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
Page  2
The expected results of the government policy actions to be supported by the proposed DPC are to: 
(i) Improve capital budget planning and execution, and protect the maintenance of basic 
infrastructure; 
(ii) Protect the poor during the downturn by retargeting social policies to the poor; 
(iii) Strengthen confidence in the financial sector; and 
(iv)  Clarify the mining policy framework. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The proposed DPC is not anticipated to have negative impacts on the environment. On the contrary, the 
mining policy reform to be supported by the DPC includes the introduction of environmentally and 
socially responsible mining practices. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
30 
 Total 
30 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Rogier J. E. van den Brink 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5928 
Fax: (202) 614-5928 
Email: Rvandenbrink@worldbank.org
 
