                                         CONFORMED COPY



                                  CREDIT NUMBER 4776 -MN




Financing Agreement


     (Second Development Policy Financing)


                   between


                 MONGOLIA


                     and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




            Dated October 26, 2010
                              FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated October 26, 2010, entered into between MONGOLIA
(“Recipient?)     and      INTERNATIONAL              DEVELOPMENT            ASSOCIATION
(“Association?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this
financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.
The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
        nineteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
        (SDR 19,700,000) (variously, “Credit? and “Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                                          -2-


2.07.   The Payment Currency is United States Dollars.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01    The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any
                action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.

4.02.   The Additional Events of Acceleration consists of the following, namely, that the
        event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
        period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the
        Association to the Recipient.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
        the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in
        carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s
        macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date a hundred and twenty (120) days after the
        date of this Agreement.
                                             -3-


                ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

                Ministry of Finance
                Government Building 2
                United Nations’ Street 5/1
                Ulaanbaatar, 15160

                Facsimile:

                976-51-262272

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America

                Cable address:           Telex:                  Facsimile:

                INDEVAS                  248423(MCI)             1-202-477-6391
                Washington, D.C.


        AGREED at Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia, as of the day and year first above written.


                                 MONGOLIA

                                 By /s/ S. Bayartsogt

                                                         Authorized Representative



                                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                 By /s/ Coralie Gevers

                                                         Authorized Representative
                                          -4-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken under the Program

        The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:

    1. The Recipient has amended the FY2010 Budget to:

        (i)     improve the public investment plan by reducing in one hundred ninety
                seven (amounting to forty billion Tugrig) the number of projects that:
                (A) do not have the necessary feasibility studies (technical drawings and
                accurate cost estimates); and (B) do not meet national priorities; and

        (ii)    account for the contingent liabilities from contractor-funded projects by
                specifying these in the Amended FY2010 Budget.

    2. The Recipient has prioritized the level of capital expenditures for maintenance of
       basic infrastructure (including the Road Fund), as evidenced by: (i) the increase
       in the ratio of capital repairs to new investments from 6.1% (in the FY2009
       Revised Budget) to 6.5% (in the FY2010 Budget); and (ii) the allocation of 28.7
       billion Tugrig therefor.

    3. The National Statistical Office has approved the Proxy Means Test methodology
       as the official targeting mechanism for the provision of social welfare benefits in
       Mongolia.

    4. The MoSWL has completed a proposal defining the parameters of the new
       poverty-targeted benefit program, and has submitted said proposal to the Cabinet
       for approval.

    5. BoM has: (i) completed a special banks assessment of seven (7) selected banks;
       and (ii) commenced a similar assessment of another three (3) selected banks,
       with the assistance of internationally reputable auditors.

    6. BoM has adopted and submitted to the Parliament a comprehensive bank
       restructuring strategy, which includes, as a last resort tool, a stand-by bank
       recapitalization facility with proper covenants to protect the public funds.

    7. The Recipient has revised the regulation on operations and processes of the
       Mining Cadastre.

    8. The Recipient has submitted the documentation required by the International
       EITI Board to assess the compliance of the Recipient’s national EITI Program.
                                          -5-


     9. The Recipient has placed online a searchable database of environmental impact
        assessments for mining and other projects.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
        tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
        allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table
        below:

                   Allocations                  Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                      (expressed in SDR)
         Single Withdrawal Tranche                         19,700,000
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                      19,700,000

C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

        No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
        Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient;
        and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

D.      Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise
        agree:

        1.      all withdrawal(s) from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
                Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable
                to the Association; and

        2.      the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
                Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
                Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
                Association.

E.      Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
        Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
        determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a
        payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
        from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to
        the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
        cancelled.
                                     -6-



F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2011.
                                         -7-


                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule

              Date Payment Due                      Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                               repayable
                                                     (expressed as a percentage)*
On each April 15 and October 15
commencing April 15, 2021 to and including                         1%
October 15, 2030
commencing April 15, 2031 to and including                         2%
October 15, 2050

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to
be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section
3.03(b) of the General Conditions.
                                         -8-


                                     APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.     “Amended FY2010 Budget? means the FY2010 Budget as amended pursuant to
       the budgetary amendment law, dated July 9, 2010.

2.     “BoM? means the Recipient’s central bank, established pursuant to the Law of
       Mongolia on Central Bank, dated September 3, 1996, as amended to the date of
       this Agreement.

3.     “Cabinet? means the Recipient’s Cabinet of Ministers.

4.     “EITI Program? means the Recipient’s program adopted pursuant to Resolution
       of the Government of Mongolia dated March 28, 2007, on the “Approval of
       Functions of Governmental Bodies Participating in the Implementation of the
       Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative,? aimed at strengthening
       governance by improving transparency and accountability in the extractive sector
       through the publication of payments by private companies and the disclosure of
       government’s receipt of oil, gas and mining.

5.     “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

       (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
               the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
               loan;

       (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
               Recipient:

                         Group           Sub-group             Description of Item
                         112                                   Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                   Tobacco, un-
                                                               manufactured, tobacco
                                                               refuse
                         122                                   Tobacco, manufactured
                                                               (whether or not containing
                                                               tobacco substitutes)
                                      -9-


                     525                                    Radioactive and associated
                                                            materials
                     667                                    Pearls, precious and
                                                            semiprecious stones,
                                                            unworked or worked
                     718              718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                            thereof; fuel elements
                                                            (cartridges), non-
                                                            irradiated, for nuclear
                                                            reactors
                     728              728.43                Tobacco processing
                                                            machinery
                     897              897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                            platinum group metals
                                                            (except watches and watch
                                                            cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                            silversmiths’ wares
                                                            (including set gems)
                     971                                    Gold, non-monetary
                                                            (excluding gold ores and
                                                            concentrates)

     (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
            consumption;

     (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
            which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
            agreements to which the Recipient is a party);

     (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations; and

     (f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
            collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
            Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
            Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
            action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
            occur.

6.   “Fiscal Year? means the Recipient’s financial year which commences in January
     1 and closes on December 31 of the same calendar year.
                                       - 10 -


7.    “FY2009 Revised Budget? means the law, dated November 27, 2008 approving
      the budgetary allocation and accounts for the Recipient’s Fiscal Year 2009 as
      amended on March 12, 2009.

8.    “FY2010 Budget? means the law, dated November 27, 2009 approving the
      budget allocation and accounts for the Recipient’s Fiscal Year 2010.

9.    “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
      General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
      through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this
      Appendix.

10.   “International EITI Board? means the board established pursuant to Article 10 of
      the Articles of Association of The Association of Extractive Industries
      Transparency Initiative, a non-profit organization established and operating
      under Norwegian law.

11.   “Mining Cadastre? means the state administrative body established pursuant to
      Article 11 of the Recipient’s Mineral Law (2008), responsible for managing the
      registration of mineral licenses and the processing of applications for the grant,
      transfer, pledging surrender and revocation thereof.

12.   “MoF? means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance.

13.   “MoSWL? means the Recipient’s Ministry of Social, Welfare and Labor.

14.   “National Statistical Office? means the Recipient’s statistical office established
      pursuant to the Recipient’s Law on National Statistics of 1994, as amended.

15.   “Parliament? means the Recipient’s Ulsyn Ikh Khural.

16.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
      promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
      referred to in the letter dated May 7, 2010 from the Recipient to the Association
      declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and
      requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its
      execution.

17.   “Proxy Means Test? means the formula set out in the Joint Order No 58/36 of the
      Chairman of the National Statistical Office and the Minister of Social Welfare
      and Labor, dated April 5, 2010, to be utilized by the MoSWL to determine the
      eligibility of beneficiaries of the proposed poverty-targeted welfare program of
      the Recipient.
                                         - 11 -


18.    “Road Fund? means the fiduciary fund established pursuant to Mongolia’s Law
       on Special Government Funds, dated June 29, 2006, for purposes of developing,
       maintaining, inspecting and evaluating Mongolia’s roads network.

19.    “Single Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category
       entitled “Single Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule
       1 to this Agreement.

20.    “Tugrig? means the currency unit of the Recipient on the date of this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for
Credits and Grants?, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as
follows:

1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
       Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
       in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
       accordingly.

3.     Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to
       read as follows:

               “Section 2.05. Refinancing Preparation Advance

                       If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of
               the proceeds of the Financing of an advance made by the Association or
               the Bank (“Preparation Advance?), the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the
               Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and
               outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal
               from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if
               any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay the
               amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall
               cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.?

4.     Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
       Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
       Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

5.     Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
       and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
                                      - 12 -


6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …       (c)      The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
            shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

7.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
     read as follows:

            “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
            Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
            reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
            the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
            the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
            Financing.?

8.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

            “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program?.
                              - 13 -


(a)   The term “Program Preparation Advance? (renamed as such pursuant to
      subparagraph 8(c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance? and
      its definition is modified to read as follows:

      “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing
      Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.?
