                                   THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

       COASTAL WETLANDS PROTECTIONAND DEVELOPMENT                                                                                 PROJECT



                                                                  CONTENTS




Introduction   ..........................................................................................................................
                ..........................................................................................................................            1
Background.                                                                                                                                           1
Project Implementation            ..........................................................................................................         2
Justification for Restructuring              .................................................................................................       3
Restructured Project          .............................................................................................................. 3
Recommendation.          ..................................................................................................................          6

ANNEXES

Annex 1   .........................................................................................................................................  23
Annex 2   .........................................................................................................................................  27
Annex 3    ........................................................................................................................................  31
Annex 4                                                                                                                                             -32
Annex 5  .........................................................................................................................................
          ........................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                    33

                        CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective: October 5,2004)
                            Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong (VND)
                               1 O O O V N D = US$0.0634
                                    1US$     = 15,760VND

                               FISCALYEAR
    Government: January 1 -December 31             IDA: July 1-June 30

                 ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
BZ                               Buffer Zone
CAP                              Commune Action Plan
CF                               Communal Fund
CPO                              Central Project Office
CPO-FO                           CPO FieldOffice
DANIDA                           Danish International Development Agency
D C A                            Development Credit Agreement
DKK                              Danish Krone
D M S                            Detailed Measurement Survey
DPC                              District People's Committee
EZ                               Economic Zone
EMDF                             Ethnic Minority Development Fund
EMDP                             Ethnic Minority Development Plan
FFE                              Forest and Fisheries Enterprise
FPMB                             ForestProtection and Management Board
FPZ                              FullProtectionZone
GIS                              Geographical Information System
GPS                              Global Positioning System
LUP                              LandUse Planning
MARD                             MinistryofAgriculture and Rural Development
M&E                              Monitoring and Evaluation
MET                              Monitoring and Evaluation Technician
M I S                            Management Information System
MOF                              MinistryofFinance
MOLISA                           Ministry o f Labor, Invalids and SocialAffairs
MTR                              Mid-termReview
NGO                              Non-governmental Agency
P A D                            Project Appraisal Document
P A H                            Project-affected Household
PFCU                             Project FieldCoordinationUnit
P I M                            Project ImplementationManual
PPC                              ProvincialPeople's Committee
PPMU                             Provincial Project Management Unit
QAG                              Quality Assurance Group
RAP                              Resettlement Action Plan
SSF                              Social Support Fund
TA                               Technical Assistance
TDT                              Technology Development and Transfer
VAP                              Village Action Plan
VBARD                            Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
                                 Vietnam Bank for Social Policy
wu
VBSP
                                 Women's Union


                   Vice President:          Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                 Country Director:          Klaus Rohland, EACVF
                   Sector Director:         Mark D.Wilson, EASRD
                Task Team Leader:           Laurent Msellati, EASRD

                        VIETNAM COASTAL WETLANDS PROTECTION
                                     -
                                  AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

     PROPOSEDAMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT
                                           (CREDIT 3292 VN)     -             CREDIT AGREEMENT




 Introduction

 1.       The Project as originally designedcomprised seven components: (a) mangrove planting,
rehabilitation and protection; (b) agricultural technology development and transfer; (c) social
 support program; (d) policy and institutional development; (e) resettlement o f occupants in full
protection zone; (f) monitoring and evaluation (M&E); and (g) Project coordination and
management. An important feature o f the Project's design was the provision for a large package
 of technical assistance (TA) to be provided by international andnational consultants, fundedby
the grant from the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), to support Project
implementation and to be provided through an internationally-recruited consulting company.

2.        The same seven components are maintained inthe restructured Project. Similarly, the
Development Objective o f the Project, the amount o f the Credit and the Closing Date remain
unchanged. However, on the basis o f the early implementation experience and a reassessmentof
the absorptive capacity o f each o f the four Provinces inwhich the Project i s beingimplemented,
there will be a substantial down-sizing inthe total financing o f the Project, from US65.6 million
equivalent to USS55.4 million equivalent. This decrease result from cancellation o f an amount o f
DKK36.7 million (about US$4.0 million) from the DANIDA grant and a reduction inthe
Government's contribution (about US$0.2 million). Inaddition, there will be a reallocation o f the
savings' inthe IDA credit, approximately US$6.0 million, to the Vietnam Bank for Agriculture
and Rural Development (VBARD) to support smallholders inthe Project area. The contribution
o f VBARD to the project will be consequently reducedby the same amount. The restructured
Project would continue to be economically viable, while the restructuring o f the Project would
not raise any additional environmental or resettlement issues.

Background

3.       The Project covers the southern Mekong Delta Provinces o f Ca Mau, Bac Lieu, SOC
Trang and Tra Vinh. Its objective i s to reestablishthe coastal mangrove wetland ecosystems and
to protect their aquatic nurturingand coastal protection functions on a sustainable basis. The
Project i s designed to generate two main outputs inorder to achieve the objective: (a) the
expansion o f mangrove planting inthe depletednatural mangrove forest area and the sustainable
management and protection o f the coastal ecosystems; and (b) the improvement o f incomes and
livelihoods o f the coastal population, and a reduction inthe risks they face, via diversification and
an increase in agricultural and aquatic production. The Credit was approved by the Board on
November 23, 1999 and declared effective on May 31,2000. The ClosingDate o f the Credit i s
September 30,2006.


'    The savings mainly come from a down-sizing in activities under Component 1 "Mangrove Planting,Rehabilitation
     andProtection" and Component7 "Project Coordination and Management".

 4.       The coastal areas o f the southern MekongDelta have experienced extremely rapid
 economic growth since the mid-l990s, especially inshrimp aquaculture, andthis has placed ever-
 increasing pressure on land and natural resources, particularly on the areas designated as buffer
 zones between the coastal mangrove forest, which i s to be fully protected, and the inland
 developed areas recognized as the economic zone. In addition, other government-supported
 programs have made significant headway inthe same time periodinreplanting mangrove forest
 essentially in the same areas as those covered by the Project.

 ProjectImplementation

 5.       Project Ratings: The Project's implementation started slowly and, because o f delays in
 selecting the firm to provide the international andnational TA consultants, implementation o f
 several components couldnot beginuntil 2003. InJune, 2002, the rating for the Project's
 "implementation progress" was down-graded to "unsatisfactory" status.

 6.       An internalreviewby the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) inDecember 2002
 identified poor institutional design as the fundamental problemand the principal underlyingcause
 o f the serious implementation delays. Inparticular, the fact that the whole o f Project
 implementation depended on the large TA contract was considered a major issue. The review
 also noted that the DANIDA Grant became effective only inFebruary 2001 (fifteen months after
 IDA Boardapproval of the Credit) andthat the TA contract itselfwas signed only inOctober
 2002, thus severely hampering implementation. The QAG review recommendedthat at the Mid-
 term Review (MTR) the Project's implementation record shouldbe carefully analyzed and radical
 steps taken to bringabout improvements inthe Project.

 7.       The MTR, carried out inMay 2003, concludedthat a successful outcome for the Project
was at riskbecause of the slow pace of implementation and the delays inimplementing the TA
contract. A RestructuringMission carried out by IDA and DANIDA inJuly 2003 assisted the
Government, and particularly its Ministryo f Agriculture and RuralDevelopment (MARD),to
prepare a RestructuringRequest; this was received by IDA and DANIDA in September, 2003.

8.        Based on this request, a Restructuring Proposal revised the design o f the Project and its
scope: (a) to be commensurate with the implementation and absorptive capacity of the
implementingagencies, particularly at the provinciallevel where increasedresponsibility was
placed; and (b) to be able to achieve the development objective o f the Project by the original
Closing Date of the Credit and the Grant. Inparallel with the restructuring efforts, intensive
supervision since mid-2003 and improved performance by all parties involved inimplementation
have allowed significant progress to be made in all four Project provinces. Cooperation between
IDA, DANIDAandprovincialauthorities hasbeenbased onjointly prepareddetailed Action
Plans and on the close monitoringo f their implementation. As a result, the rating for the
Project's "implementation progress" was restoredto "satisfactory" status inJune, 2004.

9.       Physical Progress and Disbursement: The physical progress achievedby the Project to
date i s described inAnnex 1. The rate o f disbursement i s accelerating and has increased
substantially since the beginning o f the year, from US$1.5 million inDecember 2003 to US$2.4

o f 60 percent - and from US$1.0 millionto US$1.5 million (excluding the Special Account
million(excluding the Special Account advances) inJune 2004 for the IDA Credit - an increase

advance) for the DANIDA Grant - an increase o f 50 percent. Although this i s low (9.8 percent of
total Project cost), disbursements inFY2004 were a total of US$1.7 million (including the
government counterpart fund) comparedto the disbursements o f U S 3 . 8 millioninthe first three

 years o f the Project's life since the date o f Effectiveness o f the Credit. This reflects a significant
 improvement inthe Project's performance since the MTR.

 Justificationfor Restructuring

 10.      The restructuringof the Project is necessarybecauseofits unsatisfactory status causedby
 weak implementation capacity and the inability to mobilize the consulting firm responsible for
 theprovisiono fkey TA inputs. The restructuringis designedto remedybotho fthese problems
 and to take into account the changed needs of the Project brought about by socio-economic and
 environmental changes inthe Project area. The Project set out to reestablishand protect a vital
 natural resource (the coastal mangrove forest) and to help poor people, who currently depend on
 the forest, to move fiom the FullProtectionZone (FPZ), resettle inthe Buffer Zone (BZ) and gain
 better and more sustainable livelihoods. Following the restructuringmission, the Project made
 significant achievements intwo o f the four provinces, indicating that the objective not only
 remains valid but i s also achievable. The restructuring o f the Project will allow these
 achievements to be consolidated, thereby protecting an investmentalready made and positioning
 the Project to achieve a development goal ofnational importance.

 11.     A complete reassessmentofreforestation and other interventions inthe BZi s also being
 preparedbecause o f major changes inland use and landvalues there since Project appraisal. The
 expansiono f physical infrastructure and agricultural development together indicate that mangrove
 reforestation i s no longer feasible inmany parts of the BZ. Dramatic increases inlandvalues
 have also occurred inthe BZ, drivenparticularly by shrimp farming. Land use has intensifiedto
 the point that many areas withinthe BZhave simplybecome extensions ofthe Economic Zone
 (EZ). Poor households are likely to become increasingly marginalized as more of the BZ
 becomes economically attractive to wealthy investors. Because o f this, it i s necessary to refocus
 the Project's involvement inthe BZon poverty reduction bytargetingProject assistance more
 strongly on the poorest households and communes.

 RestructuredProject

 12.     Components: The restructured components of the Project are summarized inAnnex 2.

 13.     Costs and Financing: The revised Project cost i s estimated to be US$55.4 million
equivalent, including bothphysical andprice contingency provisions, compared to the original
cost estimate o f US$65.6 million. The amount o f the Credit remains unchanged. Details o f the
original and revisedcost estimates and financing plans are shown inAnnex 3.

 14.     Organizational Restructuring: Inits original design, implementation o f the Project was
to have been decentralizedto the provincial level with Provincial Project Management Units
(PPMUs) beingestablished ineach province. Inpractice, this innovative structure had a
centralized administrative layer superimposed on it, which obscured the decision-making process
and the assignation o f responsibility, introduced delays inmany procedures, created redundant
processes and made the flow o f informationhighly inefficient. Inrestructuringthe Project, its
management (the day-to-day decision-making as well as the more strategic issues) will: (a) be
more effectively decentralizedto the provinces; (b) have much less interference fkom the Central
Project Office (CPO); and (c) have decentralizedmanagement activities and staff with the
establishment inMarch 2004 o f a CPO Field Office (CPO-FO) in SOCTrang Province, which i s
central to the Project area; this replaces the Project FieldCoordination Unit (PFCU) whichwas
located inthe remote province of Ca Mau. Subsequent to the approval o f the Amendments to the



                                                    - 3 -

 D C A and the DANIDAGrant Agreement, the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) will be
 revised to remove any ambiguities concerning Project management.

 15.      The new structure provides maximum decentralization inpractical terms to the provincial
 level. Eachimplementation unit will be responsible for its own activities, utilizingand being
 responsible for its own Special Account. At the central level, the management role o f the MARD
 will be one o fpolicy formulation, co-ordination at the central level, andmonitoring of
 implementation; the CPO will be responsible for payments out o f the two central Special
 Accounts (one for the Credit, and one for the DANIDA Grant) and its responsibility limited to the
 TA contract, the procurement of some vehicles, and some training activities. The CPO-FO will
 determine its own operational needs and activities within the limits o f the restructured Project. At
 the local level, planning and operational decision-making will be coordinated andprovided with
 technical support by the CPO-FO which will also implement, together with the provinces, those
 activities that involve more than one province. At the provinciallevel, the PPMUs will be
 responsible for implementing the Project under the control o f the Provincial People's Committee
 (PPC). Each PPMUwill manage its own Special Account, and the PPC will be responsible for
 releasingthe relevant counterpart funding.

 16.      The savings in the IDA Credit from the project restructuring (estimated to be US$6.0
million), resulting mainly from a reduction inactivities under Components 1and 7, will be re-
 allocated to Component 2 which, originally, was to be financed only from counterpart funds.
Thisre-allocated amount ofCredit proceeds will be disbursedto VBARD to help finance sub-
loans to smallholders inthe Project area. VBARD will share the cost o f the sub-component by
contributing US$4.2 million from its own resources to the total cost o f this component which i s
US$10.2 million. Under the original design o f the Project, VBARD was to be the sole financier
for this component. Under the restructuredProject, a separate Special Account will be
established for VBARD. The rationale i s that this i s a fairly independent component interm o f
implementation and a separate Special Account would facilitate implementation, reduce the
administrative work load, give VBARD the autonomy corresponding to its responsibilities within
the scope o f this component, and allow VBARD to be heldresponsible for what they do. In
addition, VBARD has beenworking with the Bank's on-lending programs and therefore i s
familiar with the Bank's procedures.

17.      To introduce flexible andperformance-based implementation, a systemwill be developed
to monitor performance and disbursement through the management informationsystem(MIS)
and to reassign funds on aperiodic basis to the best-performing provinces and communes (in
terms o f disbursement rate and efficiency). This will ensure that funds are made available to
those best placedto use them and will reduce the possibility that undisbursedfunds would remain
at the end o f the Project's life.

18.      Procurement: As part o f the restructuring, procurement procedures have been
streamlined inorder to strengthen procurement capacity: (a) to clarify the allocation o f
responsibilities for clearance and approval; (b) to simplify internal approval procedures; (c) to
improve procurement communications; and (d) to introduce more flexibility insome IDA
procurement procedures concerning consultancy services for small works inthe Commune
Action Plans (CAPS) and prior review o f National Competitive Biddingcontracts for works.

19.      Distribution of Credit Proceeds: A revised schedule o f Credit allocations by category,
showing the original Project Appraisal Document (PAL)) estimates and the revised estimates
based on the Project restructuring, is shown inAnnex 4.



                                                - 4 -

 20.       Economic Analysis: The Project aims to re-establish the coastal mangrove wetland eco-
 systems along 470 kmo f coast-line and to protect their aquatic nurturingand coastal protection
 functions on a sustainable basis. Protectingthe mangrove forest inthe FPZ can only be achieved
 byresettling the poor, who have beendriventhere byeconomic circumstances, andproviding
 them with a sustainable livelihoodinthe BZ. There are multiplebenefits expected from the
 Project (e.g., coastal landreclamation and improved storm-surge protection, increased marine

 capacity, a range o f social benefits - improved education and drinkingwater supply, and
 productivity, increased and stabilized farm incomes, improved environmental monitoring

 increasedemployment) but inthe economic analysis carried out at appraisal only two benefits
 were quantified: (a) increased coastal landreclamation (and reduced erosion); and (b) increased
 income o f farm households inthe BZ.

 21.       Since appraisal, there have been many changes inthe Project area, inparticular a
 significant change inlanduse inthe BZ as agriculture ingeneral, and aquaculture inparticular,
 have beenintensified inresponse to the economic incentives resulting fi-om new economic policy
 aimed at stimulating the private sector. The developments inthe BZ have superseded to a large
 extent the balance that was intended to be achievedbetweenproduction and forest conservation;
 insome areas, the BZhas completely disappeared for all practicalpurposes and is
 indistinguishable from the EZ. As a result, the models o f farm-types and the aggregation o f them
 to represent actual and potential landuse that was the basis o f economic analysis at appraisal i s
 now completely out-of-date. Although the evidence o f field visits makes clear the changes that
 have occurred and continue to occur, there i s no quantitative informationavailable concerning the
present status o f the Project area. The study o f actual landuse inthe BZ designed to remedy this
 still has not begun, and with the benefit o f hind-sightit i s plainthat it should have been combined
withthe study o fthe FPZ, the resultsofwhich were available inmid-2003. It is, therefore,
recommended that the economic analysis o f the Project should be revised as soon as the results o f
the BZ land-use study become available.

22.       Environmental Impact: The Project i s designed to improve the environment o f the
MekongDeltaby restoring and protecting the coastal ecosystems. These benefits would
contribute to further improvements insocial and physical conditions such as the reduced severity
o fnatural disasters and increased productivityo f local fisheries. There is a potential, however,
that some o f the Project activities could engender localized adverse environmental or social
effects. Inparticular, increased population density andpoorly-planned resettlement could lead to
social tension and competition for scarce natural resources (especially land, water and fisheries).
Such effects could also result from investments usingthe social funds, as could land-use changes
and pollution.

23.      The PAD specifieda monitoringregime designedto detect such adverse effects. The
M&E component complies fully with this. In addition, the Project will co-operate withthe
relevant provincial Departmentso f NaturalResources and the Environment to develop guidelines
for the preliminary Environmental Assessment o f investments. These should be used to screen
investments for potential adverse impacts and to ensure that appropriate mitigation i s included in
implementation planning, where necessary. Draft guidelines have beenprepared and were agreed
upon duringthe latest supervision mission inJuly 2004.

24.      Social Safeguards: The ResettlementAction Plan (RAP) was prepared inaccordance
with the Bank's Involuntary ResettlementOD 4.30 andregulations ofthe Government on land
acquisition and compensation, According to the RAP, Project-affectedhouseholds (PAHs) will



                                                  - 5 -

be adequately compensated for their losses and provided with a rehabilitation program to restore
their living standards at least to pre-Project levels. The implementation o f the RAP i s also closely
monitored internally and externally by the CPO, the PPMUs and an independent monitoring
agency, which carried out its first mission inthe four provinces inApril and May 2004. The
report was received inJune 2004 and found no major anomalies. Its mainrecommendations
include: (a) the need to accelerate implementation; and (b) the needto start the implementation o f
the other components inresettlement sites, including Social Development, Technology
Development and Transfer, and LandUse Planning inorder to stabilize livelihoods o fthe re-
settlers.

Recommendation

25.      On the basis o fthe foregoing discussion on the merits o f the revised Project, I
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the restructuringo f the Project. Upon such
approval, the Development Credit Agreement would be amended as set forth inthe attached Draft
Letter ofAmendment.




                                                 - 6 -

The World Bank                                                  1818 H Street N.W.             (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT             Washington, D.C. 20433         Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                            U.S.A.                         Cable Address: INDEVAS

                                                                                                       DRAFT 30.1X.2004


                                                              [Date to b e inserted at signing by CD]

            H.E.Le DucThuy
            Governor
            State Bank o f Vietnam
            49 Ly Thai To
            Hanoi
            Socialist Republic of Vietnam


                             Re: CoastalWetlands ProtectionandDevelopmentProject(CR 3292 VN)
                                         Amendments to the DevelopmentCreditAgreement

           Dear Governor Thuy:

                    IrefertotheDevelopmentCreditAgreementdatedFebruary24, 2000betweenthe
            Socialist Republic of Vietnam (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the
           Association) for the Coastal Wetlands Protection and Development Project (the Project), as
           amended by letter agreements dated respectively September 28, 2001 and September 30, 2003
           (the Development Credit Agreement). Ifurther refer to: (i)the mid-term review o f Project
           implementation carried out in May 2003; (ii)a re-structuring mission carried out by the
           Association in July 2003; (iii)   the accompanying discussions between the Borrower and the
           Association on the need to re-structure the Project to enable it to meet its development objectives;
           (iv) the letter dated September 3, 2003 from State Bank o f Vietnam on behalf of the Borrower
           requesting certain amendments to the Development Credit Agreement to reflect revisions in the
           Project design and scope in order to facilitate its implementation; and (v) the Re-structuring
           Report dated March 30,2004.

                   Iampleasedtoinformyouthat,afterdueconsideration,theAssociationconcurswiththe
           Borrower's request, and to give effect thereto agrees to amend the Development Credit
           Agreement as set forth below.

           1.      Section 1.02 o f the Development Credit Agreement i s amended with the following
           modifications and the addition o f the following paragraphs:

                            "(1)    "Forest Protection Contract" means a contract provided to an individual
                   household or group o f households in a commune or a selected Forest Protection
                   Management Board or a mass organization, under Part A.2 of the Project, for
                   purposes o fjoint protection o f natural forests in the Full Protection Zone against human
                   encroachment, human destruction and unauthorized logging."

                            "(p)    "Project Implementation Manual" means the time-bound action plan for
                   carrying out the Project in the Project Provinces referred to in paragraph 9 o f Schedule 4
                   to this Agreement."

                   "(y)    "Sub-project" means a specific investment project (i) be carried out
                                                                                      to
          under a Commune Action Plan under Part C.1 of the Project which meets the criteria set
          forth inthe Operational Manual; o r (ii)o be carried out under Part B.2 o f the Project
                                                    t
          which meets the criteria set forth in the Annex t o Schedule 4 to this Agreement and
          for which a VBARD Smallholder Sub-loan has been o r will b e made."

          pursuant"(w)paragraph 14 o f Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to be funded out o f the
                           "Social Support Fund" means the revolving fund to be established
                     to
          DANIDAGrant."

                   "(x)    "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) o f
          this Agreement, namely, the Tra Vinh Special Account, the SOCTrang Special Account,
          the Bac Lieu Special Account, the Ca Mau Special Account, the CPO Special Account,
          and the WARD Special Account."

                   "(cc)   "VBARD Smallholder Sub-Loans''             means small loans made by
          VBARD under Part B.2 of the Project to individuals, households, cooperatives or
          small enterprises for an eligible Sub-project, in accordance with the provisions o f
          paragraph 8 o f Schedule 4 to this Agreement andthe Annex thereto.

                    (dd) VBARD Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
          entered into between the Borrower, through the Ministry o f Finance, and WARD
          inaccordance with the provisions ofparagraph8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement."

                   (ee) "Vietnamese Dong" and the acronym "VND" means the currency o f the
          Socialist Republic o f Vietnam."

2.        Section 2.02 (b) o f the Development Credit Agreement i s amended to read as follows:

                  "(b)     The Borrower may, for the purposes o f the Project, open and maintain in
          Dollars the following special deposit accounts in a commercial bank on terms and
          conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
          off, seizure or attachment: (i) such account for the Tra Vinh PPMU (the Tra Vinh
                                          one
          Special Account); (ii) such account for the SOCTrang PPMU (the SOCTrang Special
                                  one
          Account); (iii)one such account for the Bac LieuPPMU (the Bac Lieu Special Account;
          (iv) one such account for the Ca MauPPMU (theCa Mau Special Account); (v) one such
          account for the CPO (the CPO Special Account); and (vi) one such account for
          VBARD (the VBARD Special Account).''

3.        The following references throughout the Development Credit Agreement are amended by
the following substitutions: (a) References to Part B.3(a) of the Project are replacedby references
to Part C.l o f the Project; (b) references to Part B.3(b) o f the Project are replaced by references to
Part C.2 o f the Project; (c) references to Part C.3 o f the Project are replaced by references to Part
D.2 o f the Project; (d) references to Part C.4 o f the Project are replaced by references to Part F.l
o f the Project; and (e) references to Part D o f the Project are replaced by references to Part E o f
the Project.

4.        Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, Withdrawal o f the Proceeds o f the
Credit, i s amended to read as follows:




                                                 - 3 -

                                     SCHEDULE 1

                      1.    Withdrawalofthe Proceedsof the Credit

            Category               Amount o f the Credit      % of Expendituresto be
                               Allocated (Expressed in SDR)           Financed

(1) Civil works under Parts A                                           90%
and E o f the Project:
  (a) for Tra Vinh                     490,000
  (b) for SOCTrang                    720,000
  (c) for Bac Lieu                    490,000
  (d) for Ca Mau                    2,970,000
  (e) for CPO                         200.000

(2) Reforestation (including                                            90%
seedlings)
  (a) for Tra Vinh                     350,000
  (b) for SOCTrang                    750,000
  (c) for Bac Lieu                    300,000
  (d) for Ca Mau                      750,000

(3) Goods (excluding                                        100%o f foreign
seedlings)                                                  expenditures, 100%o f local
  (a) for Tra Vinh                     200,o 00             expenditures (ex-factory
  (b) for SOCTrang                    210,000               cost) and 85%of local
  (c) for Bac Lieu                    210,000
  (d) for Ca Mau                                            expenditures for other items
                                      430,000
  (e) for CPO                         350,000               procured locally
  (f) for WARD                         15,000

(4) Consultants' Services                                              100%
 (a) for Tra Vinh                       70,000
 (b) for SOCTrang                      130,000
 (c) for Bac Lieu                       70,000
 (d) for Ca Mau                        200,000
 (e) for CPO                           500,000

(5) Training                                                            100%
  (a) for Tra Vinh                        80,000
 (b) for SOCTrang                         80,000
 (c) for Bac Lieu                         80,000
 (d) for Ca Mau                         120,000
 (e) for CPO                            300,000
 (f)for VBARD                             30,000




                                           - 4 -

            Category                    Amount o f the Credit             % o f Expendituresto be
                                    Allocated (Expressed in SDR)                   Financed


(6) Communal Grants                                                    100%of amounts of
  (a) for Tra Vinh                              270,000                Communal Grants disbursed
  (b) for SOCTrang                          2,800,000
  (c) for Bac Lieu                            360,000
  (d) for Ca Mau                              830,000

(7) Farmers Grants                                                     100% of amounts of Farmers
  (a) for Tra Vinh                               70,000                Grantsdisbursed
  (b) for SOCTrang                            140,000
  (c) for Bac Lieu                            100,000
  (d) for Ca Mau                              230,000

(8) Forest Protection                                                  100%for paymentsmade
Contracts                                       140,000                prior to June 30,2005 and
  (a) for Tra Vinh                            470,O 00                 50% for paymentsmade
  (b) for SOCTrang                            200,000                  thereafter
  (c) for Bac Lieu                            320,000
 (d) for CaMau


(9) Incremental Operating                                              100% for payments made on
costs:                                                                 or prior to June 30,2005 and
  (a) for Tra Vinh                           170,000                   50% for payments made
  (b) for SOCTrang                          200,000                    thereafter
  (c) for Bac Lieu                           180,000
  (d) for Ca Mau                             310,000
  (e) for CPO                                140,000


(10) W A R D Smallholder                   4,O00,O00                   100% of amounts of Sub-
Sub-loans                                                              loans disbursed

(11) Unallocated                           2,075,000

           TOTAL                  I       23,100,000


                        ~~                ~




        2.      For the purposes o f this Schedule:

                (a)       the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
                any country other than that o f the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
                the territory o f any country other than that o f the Borrower;




                                                - 5 -

                (b)     the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
                Borrower or for goods or services suppliedfrom the territory o f the Borrower;

                (c)      the term "Reforestation" means planting o f seedlings and seed stands
                includingthe provision o f seedlings and seed stands therefore;

                (d)     the term "Forest Protection Contracts" means contracts provided to an
                individual household or group o f households in a Commune or a selected
                Forest Protection Management Board or a mass organization, under Part
                A.2 of the Project for purposes o fjoint protection of natural forests in the Full
                Protection Zone against human encroachment, human destruction and
                unauthorized logging; and

                (e)     the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the expenses incurredby
                the CPO and PPMUs on account of Project implementation, management and
                monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision
                costs, but excludingsalaries.

       3.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
      made inrespect o fpayments made for expenditures prior to the date o f this Agreement.

      4.        The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
      the basis o f statements o f expenditure for expenditures under contracts for:

                (a)     works and reforestation under contracts costing less than $100,000
                equivalent each;

                (b)     goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each;

               (c)      services provided by (i)consulting firms under contracts costing less
               than $100,000 equivalent each; and (ii)       individual consultants under contracts
               costing less than $50,000 equivalent each;

               (d)      training, Communal Grants, Farmers Grants, Forest Protection
               Contracts, Incremental Operating Costs, and VBARD Smallholder Sub-loans;

               all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
               the Borrower.

5.    Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, Description o f the Project, i s amended
to read as follows:

                                       SCHEDULE 2

                                 Description of the Project

               The objective o f the Project i s to assist the Borrower to reestablish and improve
      the coastal ecosystems in the Project Provinces and their associated biodiversity by
     replanting the coastal mangrove wetlands and reestablishing their aquatic nurturing and
      coastal protection functions ina sustainable manner.




                                               - 6-

          The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
 as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
 objectives:

 Part A: Mangrove Plantinp, Rehabilitation and Protection

  1.      Establishment and physical demarcation of the Full Protection Zone with high
 biodiversity and coastal protection value and Buffer Zone inthe Project Provinces.

 2.       Reforestation o f formerly forested barren land in the Full Protection Zone and
 Buffer Zone, including additional planting o f degraded forest land, planting of mudflats
 on the accretion coast, planting on higher lands for coastal protection in the Full
 Protection Zone and Buffer Zone, scattered planting in the Buffer Zone, and issuance
 of forest protectioncontracts.

 3.      Enhancing the production of seedlings through establishment o f small-scale
 nurseries, strengthening o f existing nurseries and seed stands through the provision o f
 technical assistance and training of households in the Buffer Zone in the production o f
 seedlings.

 4.      Protection and management of the nature reserves and sanctuaries of the
 MuiCa Mau NationalPark, including preparation of a management plan for said
 Park, boundary demarcation, provision of training to park staff inmanagement and
 protection, restoration of habitat in special areas, construction of protection
 infrastructure, provision of equipment, and carrying out of awareness-raising
 educational programs.

Part B: Technolow Development and Transfer

 1.      Provision of technical support to farmers in selected communes within the
Buffer Zone, including upgrading of regional research sub-centers, conducting of
adaptive research and on-farm experiments, establishment of demonstration sites to
promote integrated and diversified farming systems for aquaculture and land crop
production, implementation o f a monitoring, extension and training program o f
integrated coastal farming systems, and provision o f farmer grants for demonstration o f
agricultural, aquaculture and livestock activities.

2.       Improving access o f small holders to commercial credit to support income
generating activities and reduce the pressure on natural resources in the Full
Protection Zone and Buffer Zone, including provision of smallholder sub-loans
through VBARD, provision of equipment to WARD and o f training in credit
assessment to its staff, and development of an awareness-raising and training
programfor farmers.

Part C: Support Programfor Households and Communes

1.      Development and implementation o f Commune Action Plans in selected
communes for the carrying out o f specific participatory investment sub-projects to be
financed by Communal Grants.




                                       - 7 -

     2.       (a) Establishment of the Social Support Fund to provide small loans for
     productive activities to very poor households in selected communes and to support
     an illiteracy eradication program in selected communes; and (b) establishment of
     the Ethnic Minority Development Fund to provide grants to finance activities in
     support of ethnic minorities pursuant to the Ethnic Minorities DevelopmentPlan.

     Part D: Policy and Institutional DeveloDment

     1.       Improving land-use planning, assessment o f land titling procedures and
     improving the issuance o f land-use rights certificates in the Buffer Zone in the Project
     Provinces.

     2.       Formulation and implementation o f restructuring plans for selected Forestry and
     FisheryEnterprises.

     Part E: Resettlement o f Affected Persons
              Carry out the Resettlement Action Plan, including relocation and rehabilitation of
     Affected Persons from the FullProtection Zone inthe Project Provinces, and provision o f
     logistic support for Affected Persons beingresettled.

     Part F: Monitorinp and Evaluation. Proiect Coordination and Management

     1.      Establish a Project monitoring and evaluation system, including (a) design
    of a management information system, collection of socio-economic baseline data and
    formulation of appropriate indicators; (b) strengthening of monitoring and
    evaluation capacity of Project implementing agencies; and (c) carrying out of special
    studies to support long-term environmental monitoring, including a water quality
    monitoring study, a socio-economic analysis, a survey of land use and land
    allocation inthe BufferZone, and a study of Dat MuiCa M a u national park.

    2.       Strengthen the institutional capacity of the Central Project Office and the
    Provincial Project Management Units to direct, manage and coordinate Project
    activities.


6.  Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement i s amended to read as follows:


                                     SCHEDULE3

                                      Procurement

    Section I. Procurement o f Goods and Works

    Part A:          General

             Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions o f Section
    Iofthe"GuidelinesforProcurementunderIBRDLoansandIDACredits"publishedby
    the Bank inJanuary 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
    January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions o f Section Io f this Schedule.



                                           - 8 -

Part B:           International Competitive Bidding

 1.       Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded inaccordance with the provisions o f Section I1of the Guidelines
 and paragraph 5 o f Appendix 1thereto.

2.        The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts
awarded inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph 1o f this Part B, namely:

(a) Grouuing o f contracts
          To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages
     estimatedto cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.

(b) Preference for domesticallymanufacturedgoods
          The provisions o f paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
     thereto shall apply to goods manufactured inthe territory of the Borrower.

(c) Notification and Advertising
         The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost
     $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the
     procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph2.8 o f the Guidelines.

Part C:          Other ProcurementProcedures

1.       National Comuetitive Bidding

(a)      Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 4 o f this Part C, goods estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and works
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 o f the
Guidelines.

@)       The proceduresto be followed for National CompetitiveBiddingunder this
Paragraph 1, Part C, shall be those set forth in Decree No. 88/1999/ND-CP dated
September 1, 1999, of the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as
amended and supplemented by Decree No. 14/2000/ND-CP dated May 5, 2000 and
Decree No. 66/2003/ND-CPdatedJune 12,2003 (Decree No. 88/1999/ND-CP,Decree
No. 14/2000/ND-CP,and Decree No. 66/2003/ND-CP, together "the Regulations"),
with the clarificationsset forth in the Annex to this Schedule 3 requiredto comply
withthe provisionsofthe Guidelines.

2.      National Shoming
        Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis o f national shopping procedures, in accordance with the provisions
o f paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 o f the Guidelines.

3.      Direct Contracting



                                        - 9 -

         Seeds and/or seedlings for reforestation which must be procured from a
 particular supplier for a specific tree species in acceptable quality and sufficient quantity
 at the required time and cultural goods and equipment for ethnic minorities, such as
 crematorium, musical instruments and Khmer boats, to be procured under Part C.2
 of the Project, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance
 with the provisions ofparagraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.

 4.      Community Participation
         Works under Part A and C o f the Project for reforestation may be procured from
 a group o f households in a Commune in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
 Association.

 5.      Procurement from UNAgencies
         Five four-wheel drive vehicles and five speed boats estimated to cost up to an
 aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent may be procured from the
 Interagency Procurement Service Office o f the United Nations in accordance with the
 provisions o f paragraph 3.9 o f the Guidelines.

 6.      Procurement o f Small Works
         Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
 aggregate amount not to exceed $8,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
 sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3)
 qualified domestic contractors in response to a written request for quotations. The
request for quotations shall be advertised in at least one newspaper of provincial
circulation. A minimumof 7 days for the preparation and submission of quotations
shall be provided. The request for quotations shall include a detailed description o f the
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully. In procurement of small works under Part C of the Project,
representatives of the Beneficiary communities shall be allowed to participate inthe
opening of quotations received, and shall be informed of the award of contract.

Part D:          Review by the Association o f Procurement Decisions

1.       Procurement Planning
         Prior to the issuance o f any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 1
o f Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Said Procurement Plan shall be updated annually
and furnished to the Association not later than October 31 of each year for
procurement in the next succeeding calendar year. Procurement o f all goods and
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan, as updated from
time to time, as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of
saidparagraph 1.

2.      Prior Review

(a)     The procedures set forth in paragraph 2 and 3 o f Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply with respect to: contracts for goods to be procured under International


                                        -10-

 Competitive Biddingprocedures; the first contracts for works and for goods procured
by each PPMU under National Competitive Bidding procedures; and contracts for
works under National Competitive Bidding procedures estimated to cost more than
 $200,000 each.

 (b)     With respect to the first three (3) contracts to be procured by each Project
Province through national shopping procedures, and the first three (3) contracts for works
and reforestation to be procured by each Project Province through Small Works
procedures the following procedures shall apply:

           (i) priortotheselection ofanysupplierunderShoppingor SmallWorks
           procedures, as the case may be, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a
           report on the comparison and evaluation o f quotations received;
           (ii)prior to the execution of any contract procured under Shopping
           procedures or Small Works procedures, as the case may be, the Borrower shall
           provide to the Association a copy o f the specification and the draft contract;
           and
           (iii)theproceduressetforthinparagraphs2(f) and2(g) and3ofAppendix 1
           to the Guidelines shall apply.

3.       Post Review
         With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the
procedures set forth inparagraph4 of Appendix 1to the Guidelines shall apply.

Section 11.      Emdoyment o f Consultants

Part A:          General
         Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions o f
Sections Iand IV o f the "Guidelines:      Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in
September 1997, January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 o f Appendix 1
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions o f Section I1o f this Section.

Part B:          Quality- and Cost-based Selection
        Except as otherwise provided inPart C o f this Section, consultants' services shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I1of
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection o f consultants.

Part C:         Other Procedures for the Selection o f Consultants

1.      Quality-based Selection
        Services for independent monitoring o f the RAP under Part E o f the Project, and
services for monitoring and evaluation under Part F o f the Project, may be procured
undercontracts awarded inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4
of the Consultant Guidelines.

2.      Single Source Selection
        Services for: (a) forest inventory and forest planting and protection design work
under Part A ofthe Project; (b) carrying out adaptiveresearchstudies and development of
appropriate technologiesunder Part B.l o f the Project; (c) carrying out land and water


                                      - I1 -

 use studies under Part D.l o f the Project; (d) delivery of training, planning and
 implementation of the RAP under Part E o f the Project; and (e) consultancy services
 (mainly engineering designs and construction supervision) under Part C of the
 Project and estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
 aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent;may with the Association's prior
 agreement, be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
 paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11of the Consultant Guidelines.

 3.       Individual Consultants
          Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in
 paragraph 5.1 o f the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in
 accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 o f the Consultant
 Guidelines.

 4.       Least-cost Selection
          Services for audits, engineering design o f non-complex works, construction
 supervision and other assignments o f routine nature, estimatedto cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions o f paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

5.        Selection Basedon Consultants' Qualifications
          Services for the design and construction supervision o f small works other than
under Part C of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3,1 and 3.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

Part D:           Review by the Association o f the Selection o f Consultants

1.       Selection Planning
         A plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to
consultants o f any requests for proposals. Selection o f all consultants' services shall be
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the
Association.


2.       Prior Review
(a)      With respect to each contract for the employment o f consulting firms estimated
to cost the equivalent o f $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3
and 5 o f Appendix 1to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

(b)      With respect to each contract for the employment o f individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the
qualifications and experience o f candidates, terms o f reference and terms o f employment
o f the consultants shall be furnishedto the Association for its prior review and approval.
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to
such contracts.




                                       - 12-

 3.       Post Review
          With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
 procedures set forth in paragraph 4 o f Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall
 apply.


                                                                       Annex to Schedule3

                               NationalCompetitive Bidding

          Inorder to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency andbroad consistency with
 the provision o f Section Iof the Guidelines, the procedures normally used for public
 procurement in the Socialist Republic o f Vietnam shall be modified in accordance with
 the following provisions:

 Particiuation inbidding andpreferences

 (i) Forclarificationpurposes,itisunderstoodthatthelastsentenceoftheamended
 Paragraph (c), Section 2, Article 2 o f Decree 88/ND-CP which states that "All the
procedures for submission, appraisal and approval o f procurement plan and bidder
 selection results shall follow the Procurement Regulation" means "Approvals o f draft
bidding documents, bid evaluation reports and proposals for award shall be obtained in
accordance with the relevant rules andprocedures o f the ProcurementRegulation".
(ii) Government-owned enterprises inVietnam shall be eligible to participate in
bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially autonomous,
operate under commercial law, and are not a dependent agency o f the Borrower or the
procuring entity. Military or security units, or enterprises which belong to the Ministryo f
Defense or the Ministry o f Public Security shall not be permitted to bid.
(iii) Foreign bidders shall be eligible to participate in bidding under the same
conditions as local bidders, and local bidders shall be given no preference (either in the
biddingprocess or inbidevaluation) over foreign bidders,nor shall bidderslocatedinthe
same province or city as the procuring entity be given any such preference over bidders
located outside that city or province.
(iv)     Bidders shall be allowed to participate in bidding without being listed in the
Government Database on Bidder Information.
(v)      Foreign bidders shall not be required, in order to participate in bidding, to enter
into a joint venture with a local bidder, or to subcontract part o f their contract to a local
bidder.
(vi)     Ifthere isprequalification, all prequalifiedbidders shallbeinvitedto bid.
(vii)    Ifthere is limitedbiddingbecausethere are only alimitednumberofbidderswho
can meet the requirements o f the biddingdocuments, all o f these bidders shall be invited
to bid.
(viii)   Bidders shall not be required, as a condition of participation in the bidding, to
provide suppliers' credits.

Advertising: time for bidpreparation

(ix)     Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national
newspaper. In addition, the Borrower i s encouraged to advertise in the Government
Public ProcurementBulletin when established and on a free and open access website.


                                       - 1 3 -

     Standard BiddingDocuments

     (x)      The Borrower's standard bidding documents shall be acceptable to the Bank.
     The biddingdocuments shall provide clear instructions on how bids should be submitted,
     how prices should be offered, and the place and time for submission o f bids.               A
     minimum of 30 days for the preparation and submission of bids shall be provided.
     Bidders shall be allowed to submitbidsby hand or by mail.

     Qualification criteria and evaluation criteria

      (xi)    Qualification criteria shall be clearly specified in the biddingdocuments, and all
     criteria so specified, and only criteria so specified, shall be used to determine whether a
     bidder is qualified. Qualifications of a bidder found to meet the specified qualification
     criteria shall not be taken into account inthe evaluation o f such bidder's bid.
     (xii)    Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents, and
     evaluation criteria other than price shall be quantified in monetary terms. All evaluation
     criteria so specified, and only evaluation criteria so specified, shall be taken into account
     inbidevaluation. Meritpoints shallnotbeusedinbidevaluation.

     Bidevaluation and award ofcontract

     (xiii)   Bids received after the deadline for bid submission shall be returned to the
     biddersunopened.
     (xiv)    A bid containing material deviations from, or reservations to, the terms,
     conditions or specifications o f the bidding documents shall be rejected as not
     substantially responsive. A bidder shall not be permitted to withdraw material deviations
     or reservations once bids have been opened.
     (xv)     Evaluation o f bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified inthe
    bidding documents, and contracts shall be awarded to the qualified bidder offering the
    lowest evaluated and responsivebid.
    (xvi)     A bidder shall not be required, as a condition for award, to undertake obligations
    not specified in the bidding documents, or otherwise to modify the bid as originally
    submitted.
    (xvii) There shall be nopost-bidding negotiations withthe lowest or any other bidder".


7.  Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement i s amended to read as follows:


                                       SCHEDULE 4

                                ImplementationProgram


    1.       The Borrower shall, through MARD, establish and, thereafter, maintain at all
    times duringthe implementation o fthe Project:

   MARD(a) with representatives, inter alia, of the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and
                      a National Project Steering Committee chaired by a Vice Minister o f
             and
    Investment, Ministry o f Finance, Ministry o f Fisheries, Ministry of Natural Resources
    and Environment, Ministry of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs, State Bank o f


                                            - 14-

 Vietnam, State Committee for Ethnic Minorities and Mountainous Areas and the
 VBARD, and Provincial People's Committees, assigned with such functions and
 responsibilities, satisfactory to the Association, as shall have been required for the
 coordination and oversight o f Project implementation, including inter alia: (i)
 coordination and liaison between Project implementing agencies; (ii)preparation of
 annual implementation plans and budgets, including counterpart funds; (iii)      issuance of
 guidelines prescribing a standard procedure for makingresettlement payments and for the
 supply, planting, verification and audit o f seedlings, and (iv) timetables and institutional
 arrangements for Project implementation;

          (b)      a Central Project Office, headed by a Project Director with qualifications
 and experience satisfactory to the Association, with such functions, responsibilities and
 funds, satisfactory to the Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers, as
 shall be required for the implementation o f the Project, including the preparation of
 Project reports; the maintenance o f consolidated Project accounts; the implementation o f
 procurement activities directly related to its respective part o f the Project, and the
 preparation o f overall progress report on procurement; and the provision o f guidance on
 Project implementation to the Provincial Project Management Units through a local
 field office based in SOCTrang, said field office to be managed and staffed with
 qualified personnel in adequate number, responsible for representing the CPO in
 providing technical assistance to the PPMUs to ensure efficient implementation of
 the Projectat the provinciallevel.

 2.      The Borrower shall ensure that each Project Provincial People's Committee shall
 for purposes o f implementing the Project in its respective Province, establish and,
 thereafter, maintain:

         (a)      a Provincial Project Steering Committee chaired by a Vice Chairman o f
 the Provincial People's Committee and with representatives, inter alia, o f the Provincial
 Department o f Agriculture and Rural Development, Forest Protection Branch, Provincial
 Department o f Planning and Investment, Provincial Department o f Fisheries, Provincial
 Department o f Finance,       Provincial Department of Natural Resources and
 Environment, Provincial Department of Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs, and
Provincial VBARD branch, and assigned with such functions and responsibilities,
 satisfactory to the Association, as shall be required for the coordination and oversight o f
the implementation o f the Project at the Provincial Commune levels; and

         (b)      a Provincial Project Management Unit, headed by a Director with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, with such functions,
responsibilities, funds and competent staff in adequate numbers, satisfactory to the
Association as shall be required to carry out the Project in the respective Province,
including preparation o f Project reports,           maintenance o f Project        accounts,
implementation o f procurement activities, coordination with the CPO, and monitoring
and evaluation.

3.       The Borrower shall:

         (a)      by September 30 of each year, commencing September 30, 2000 furnish
to the Association for its review and comment, a proposed annual work program and
budget for Project activities to be implemented during the following calendar year,
including: (i)mangrove planting, rehabilitation and protection; (ii)technology


                                        - 13 -

 development and transfer; (iii)Commune Action Plans; (iv) policy and institutional
 development; (v) Ethnic Minorities Development Plan; and (vi) Resettlement Action Plan
 (including (A) identified land to resettle the Affected Persons, with maps o f each
 resettlement site adjacent to or within each commune village receiving the Affected
 Persons, and (B) respective VAPs); provided, however, that the annual work program
 and budget for Project activities during the calendar year 2000 shall be furnished to the
Association by March 31,2000; and

         (b)      implement such annual work programs and budget taking into account
the Association's comments thereon, if any.

4.       The Borrower shall ensure that the Zoning Decision i s enforced in the Full
Protection Zone in a manner consistent with the objective o f the Project, and further
undertakes not to amend, abrogate or waive the Zoning Decision without the prior
concurrence o f the Association.

5.       The Borrower shall ensure that Affected Persons shall be compensated, resettled
and rehabilitated in accordance with the Resettlement Plan. To that end, the Borrower
shall, and shall cause each o f the Project Provincial People's Committees to, carry out the
said Resettlement Action Plan within their respective administrative boundaries in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.

6.       The Borrower shall ensure that the Project shall be implemented with due regard
to the provisions o f the Ethnic Minorities Development Plan. To that end, the Borrower
shall, and shall cause each o f the Project Provincial People's Committees to, implement
the Ethnic Minorities Development Planwithintheir respective administrativeboundaries
inamanner satisfactoryto the Association.

7.       For purposes of Part C.l of the Project, the Borrower, through the Ministry
of Finance, shall enter into a subsidiary loan agreementwith VBARD satisfactory to
the Association, whereby:

portion(a)       the Borrower shall make available to VBARD as a subsidiary loan a

Category (lo), under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;
         of the proceeds of the Credit up to the amount allocated from time to time to


         (b)     VBARD shall undertake the following actions and responsibilities
for the purposesof said Part of the Project:

                 (i) WARD shall prepare and, thereafter, put into effect a
                 Credit Regulation and Manual for               Smallholder     Sub-loans,
                 satisfactory to the Association, including therein the policies,
                 guidelines and procedures for: credit appraisal and approval;
                 financial management and analysis;             loan portfolio quality
                 monitoring; principles and procedures for allocation of credit lines
                to its Provincial branches within the Project Provinces; and terms
                and conditions for the Smallholder Sub-loans which shall includethe
                terms and conditions set forth inthe Annex 1to this Schedule 4.

                (ii) VBARDshallundertaketomakeSmallholder Sub-loansto
                eligible smallholders in accordance with its Credit Regulation and



                                       - 16-

                  Manual for Smallholder Sub-loans, and shall not amend, revise or
                  waive its Credit Regulation and Manual for Smallholder Sub-loans
                  or any part thereof without the prior concurrence of the Association.

                  (iii) VBARDshallundertaketomaintainafinancialmanagement
                  system including records and accounts, and prepare financial
                  statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting
                  standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect its
                  operations, resources and expenditures inrespect of the Smallholder
                  Sub-loans Program.

                  (iv)    WARD shall undertake to have the financial statements,
                  records and accounts referred to in clause (iii)       of this paragraph
                  7@), for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with consistently
                  applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association; furnish to the
                  Borrower and the Association certified copies o f such financial
                  statements and an opinion on such statements by the auditors, in
                  scope and detail satisfactory to the Association; and furnish such
                  other information on its financial statements, the audit thereof and
                  concerning the auditors as the Association may from time to time
                  reasonably request.

8.       The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the VBARD Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit; and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive said
Subsidiary LoanAgreement, or any provision thereof.

9.       The Borrower shall, through MARD, adopt a Project Implementation Manual,
satisfactory to the Association, which shall include implementation responsibilities,
procedures and guidelines, financial and accounting practices, procurement procedures,
and criteria for: (a) technology development and transfer under Part B.1 o f the Project,
including applied research on aquaculture and coastal farming systems; (b) criteria for
Sub-projects to be included in Commune Action Plans under Part C.l of the Project,
and for Sub-projects eligible for a VBARD Smallholder Sub-loans under Part B.2 of
the Project, including the requirement that said Sub-projects consist o f environmental
sustainable development activities that contribute to a reduction o f land-use pressures and
to preservation o f wetlands in the FullProtection and Buffer Zones; (c) Forest Protection
Contracts under Part A.2 o f the Project; (d) policy and institutional development under
Part D of the Project; and (e) the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
systems under Part F.1 of the Project.

10.      The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Manual, and further undertakes not to amend, abrogate or waive the
Project Implementation Manual or any provisions therein without the prior concurrence
o f the Association.

11.      By December 31, 2004, the Borrower shall cause the CPO to fumish to the
Association for its review and comments a detailed action plan, satisfactory to the
Provincial People's Committees, for the restructuring o f selected State-owned forest and



                                      - 17-

 fishery enterprises under Part D.2 o f the Project.       Thereafter, the Borrower shall
 implement said action plan, taking into account the Association's comments thereon.

 12.      The Borrower shall issue procedural guidelines for the payment of forest planting
 activities to farmers and suppliers by State-owned forest enterprises and Forest Protection
 and Management Board, satisfactory to the Association and, thereafter, shall ensure that
 payments for forest planting activities shall be made inaccordance with said guidelines.

 13.      In the carrying out o f the Project, the Borrower shall undertake environmental
 mitigating measures, satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to the Environmental
 Action Plan.

 14.      The Borrower shall, by December 31,2004, establish andthereafter maintain the
 Social Support Fund for purposes o f providing loans to poor households in the Buffer
 Zone, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.

 15.      The Borrower shall:

 evaluate(a) an ongoing basis, inaccordance with the indicators agreed upon between the
                   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
           on
 Borrower and the Association, the carrying o f the Project and the achievements o f the
 objectives thereof.

          (b)     prepare under terms o f reference satisfactory to the Association and
 furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2003 a report integrating the results of
 the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) o f this
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out o f the Project during the period
preceding the date o f said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement o f the objectives thereof during
the period following such date; and

         (c)      review with the Association, by May 31, 2003 or such later date as the
Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) o f this paragraph,
and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion o f the Project
and the achievement o f the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations o f the said report and the Association's views on the matter."



                                                                    Annex 1to Schedule 4

                           Terms and Conditionsfor
                       VBARD Smallholder Sub-loans


         Eligibility

1.       Individuals or households with a residential card or evidence of permanent
residence in the Project priority communes or resettlement, and cooperatives and private
enterprises registered as located in said communes, are eligible to apply for VBARD
Smallholder Sub-loans.



                                       - 18-

           Terms and Conditions o f VBARD Smallholder Sub-loans

 2.       Unless otherwise agreed by the Association:

           (a)     The maturity o f a VBARD Smallholder Sub-loan shall be from up to 12
 months for short-term loan, and from 12 to 60 months for a medium-term loan.
          (b)      The VBARD Smallholder Sub-loans shall be denominated in and shall
 be repaid inVietnamese Dong.
          (c)      The principal amount o f a VBARD Smallholder Sub-loan shall not
 exceed ninety percent (90%) o f the total costs (excluding costs of labor o f household
 members) of a Sub-projectand shall finance only the reasonable cost o f goods, works and
 services for which said Sub-loan i s made.
          (d)      Commercial interest rates, as announced from time to time by the
 Director General o f VBARD, shall apply to the VBARD Smallholder Sub-loans; the
 interest rate shall be fixed for the term o f the Sub-loan.

 3.       Inreviewing the application for each VBARD Smallholder Sub-loan, VBARD
 shall make an assessment o f the environmental impact o f the Sub-project for said Sub-
 loan i s requested. Sub-projects with the following activities would be ineligible for a
 VBARD Smallholder Sub-loan:
          (a)      activities with negative impact on forest resources andbio-diversity;
          (b)      activities leading to land erosion, landslide or degradation;
          (c)      activities which destroy wetland for purposes o f aquaculture;
          (d)      activities which lead to leaking o f underground water resources or reduce
          water-containing layers;
          (e)      activities which contaminate or reduce the quality o f water resources, air
          or land; and
          (e)     activities in which workers are not provided healthy working conditions
          and labor protecting facilities.

4.        Each VBARD Smallholder Sub-loan shall be made on terms whereby VBARD
shall obtain, by a written contract with the borrower o f said Sub-loan, rights adequate to
protect the interests o f VBARD, the Borrower and the Association, including the rights
to:
          (a)     require the borrower to carry out the Sub-project for which said Sub-loan
i s made, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical and
sanitation standards and to maintain adequate records;
         (b)      require that goods and works be procured at a reasonable price following
established commercial procedures, account being taken also o f other relevant factors,
including, in the case o f goods, the timely delivery and efficiency and reliability o f the
goods, and availability o f maintenance facilities, if applicable, and spare parts therefor;
and inthe case o f works, the technical quality and competitive cost therefor;
         (c)      inspect, by itself, or jointly with representatives o f the respective PPMU
or of the Association, if the Association shall so request, such goods, works and
installations, as the case may be, included in said Sub-project, and any relevant records
and documents; and
         (d)      suspend or terminate the right o f the borrower to the use o fthe proceeds
o f said Sub-loan upon failure o f its obligations under its contract with VBARD.




                                          - 19-

8.      Paragraph 1 o f Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement i s amended to read as
follows:

        "1,      For the purposes o f this Schedule:

                 (a)      the term "eligible Categories" means: (i)in respect o f the Tra Vinh
        Special Account, Categories (l)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a), (4)(a), 5(a), 6(a), 7(a), (8)(a) and (9)(a);
        (ii) respectoftheSOCTrangSpecialAccount,Categories(l)(b),(2)(b), (3)(b), (4)(b),
             in
        (5)(b), (6)(b), (7)(b), (8)(b) and (9)(b); (iii)in respect o f the Bac Lieu Special Account,
        Categories (l)(c), (2)(c), (3)(c), (4)(c), (5)(c), (6)(c), (7)(c), (8)(c) and (9Nc); (iv) in
        respect o f the Ca Mau Special Account, Categories (l)(d), (2)(d), (3)(d), (4)(d), (5)(d),
        (6)(d), (7)(d), (8)(d) and (9)(d); (v) in respect o f the CPO Special Account, Categories
        (l)(e), (3)(e), (3)(f), (4)(e), (5)(e), (5)(f) and (9)(e); and (vi) in respect of the VBARD
        Special Account, Category (10); all as set forth inthe table inparagraph 1 o f Schedule 1
        to the Development Credit Agreement

                 (b)      the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect o f the
       reasonable cost o f works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
        out o f the proceeds o f the Credit allocated fiom time to time to the eligible Categories in
        accordance with the provisions o f Schedule 1to this Agreement; and

                 (c)     theterm "Authorized Allocation" means

                         (i) in respect of the Tra Vinh Special Account, an amount
                         equivalent to [$250,000], to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
                         deposited into the Tra Vinh Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
                         o f this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
                         otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limitedto an amount
                         equivalent to [$125,000] until the aggregate amount o f withdrawals fiom
                         the Credit Account allocated to Categories (l)(a) through (9)(a), plus the
                         total amount o f all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
                         Association pursuant to Section 5.02 o f the General Conditions for
                         withdrawals under said Categories, shall be equal to or exceed the
                         equivalent o f SDR250,OOO;

                         (ii) in respect of the SOCTrang Special Account, an amount
                         equivalent to [$850,000], to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
                         depositedinto the SOCTrang Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
                         o f this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
                         otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limitedto an amount
                         equivalent to [$425,000] untilthe aggregate amount o f withdrawals from
                         the Credit Account allocated to Categories (l)(b) through (9)(b), plus the
                         total amount o f all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
                         Association pursuant to Section 5.02 o f the General Conditions for
                         withdrawals under said Categories, shall be equal to or exceed the
                         equivalent of SDR600,OOO;

                         (iii) in respect of the Bac Lieu Special Account, an amount
                         equivalent to [$250,000], to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
                         deposited into the Bac Lieu Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
                         o f this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall



                                                 -20-

                          otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
                          equivalent to [$125,000] until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from
                          the Credit Account allocated to Categories (l)(c) through (9)(c), plus the
                          total amount o f all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
                          Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for
                          withdrawals under said Categories, shall be equal to or exceed the
                          equivalent of SDR250,OOO;

                          (iv)    inrespect of the Ca Mau Special Account, an amount equivalent
                          to [$1,000,000], to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
                          into the Ca Mau Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) o f this
                          Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise
                          agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent
                          to [$500,000] untilthe aggregate amount o f withdrawals from the Credit
                         Account allocated to Categories (l)(d) through (9)(d), plus the total
                          amount o f all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
                         Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for
                         withdrawals under said Categories, shall be equal to or exceed the
                         equivalent of SDR700,OOO;

                         (v)      inrespect of the CPO Special Account, an amount equivalent to
                         [$200,000], to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
                         the CPO Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) o f this Schedule,
                         provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
                         Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
                         [$75,000] until the aggregate amount o f withdrawals from the Credit
                         Account allocated to Categories (l)(e), (3)(e), (30, (4)(e), (5)(e), (5)(0,
                         (9)(e) and (lo),     plus the total amount of all outstanding special
                         commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
                         the General Conditions for withdrawals under said Categories, shall be
                         equal to or exceed the equivalent o f SDR150,OOO; and

                         (v)      in respect of the VBARD Special Account, an amount
                         equivalent to [%500,000],to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
                         and deposited into the W A R D Special Account pursuant to
                         paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
                         Association shall otherwiseagree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
                         limited to an amount equivalent to [$250,000] until the aggregate

                         Category (lo),
                         amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to
                                           plus the total amount of all outstanding special
                        commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
                        5.02 of the General Conditionsfor withdrawals under said Category,
                        shallbe equalto or exceedthe equivalent of SDR1,100,000.

         Except as specifically amended by the provisions of paragraphs 1 throughout 8 o f this
letter o f amendment, all terms and conditions o f the Development Credit Agreement otherwise
remain infull force and effect.




                                               - 21 -

        Please indicate your agreement with the terms o f this letter o f amendment by
countersigning and dating the form o f confirmation below and returning one signed original copy
o f this letter for our files. Upon our receipt o f a copy o f this letter o f amendment duly
countersigned by an authorized representative o f the Borrower, this letter o f amendment shall be
effective as of the date o f countersignature.



                                              Sincerely,

                     INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION




                                      Authorized Representative




CONFIRMEDandAGREED


For: SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM



By:
    Authorized Representative



Title:


Date:




                                               - 22 -


                                                                                             Annex 1
                                                  Vietnam
                    CoastalWetlands ProtectionandDevelopmentProject

                                       IMPLEMENTATION     STATUS


 1.      A summary description ofthe physical progress to date inimplementing the Projecti s
 givenbelow:

 Component 1: MangrovePlanting,Rehabilitationand Protection

 2.      About 2,113 ha o f mangroves have beenplanted out o f a planned area o f 17,600 ha inthe
 FPZ; this represents only 11percent o f the target. However, intotal, some 11,715 ha o f
 mangrove forest cover have beengained inthe FPZ since 1995 (when the data on the coastal land
 area were prepared for the appraisal), much o f which i s the result of planting under other
 Government programs since the Project was appraised. A re-survey o f the FPZ, preparedby the
 Forest Inventory and Planting Institute during2003, has provided a detailed land survey and
 analysis on which to revise the mangrove planting andprotection needs. Other aspects o f Project
 support to coastal conservationhave also to be revisedbecause of the redefinition o f three nature
reserveshanctuaries inCa Mau Province into a single national park (MuiCa Mau).

 Component2(a): TechnologyDevelopment and Transfer(TDT)

3.       Implementation o f the sub-component o f TDT started only in2003. The PFCU,
supportedby the TA consultants, has assisted the PPMUs inselecting the sites and carrying out
designs for 24 demonstrationposts (three inTra Vinh, twelve in SOCTrang, three inBac Lieu,
and six inCa Mau). Two workshops were organized inBac Lieu and Tra Vinh to provide
introductory training for 50 Monitoring and Evaluation Technicians (METs), followed by training
on communication and extension skills. Some 120 farmers from resettlement sites in SOCTrang,
Tra Vinh and Bac Lieuwere trained inimproved aquaculture and horticulture techniques. The
Project has already upgradedthe MinhHai Wetlands and Forestry Center in Ca Mau, assisted the
Can Tho Universityin selecting nine communes for farming systems survey, assisted SOCTrang
PPMU inzoning and designing farming systems for Vinh Hai resettlement area, and assisted Bac
LieuPPMUinthe selectionoffarmers for establishing demonstration farms usingexisting
technologies.

Sub-component 2(b): Small-holder Credit

4.       The original designincludedthe provisionby VBARD ofUS10.2 millionfor short- and
medium-term credit requirements under the TDT component and the commercially-viable parts
o f the Social Support Programo f Component 3. However, because o f the lack o f an appropriate
monitoring and reporting system, there i s no data available concerning the amount o f credit
VBARD has actually providedinthe Project areaunder this sub-component. Ingeneral,
VBARD's total outstandingloans inall four Projectprovinces grew bymore than 30 percent per
year duringthe period 2001-2003. However, an estimated 70 percent o f householddemand for
formal credit remains unmet. Further,there i s no evidence that Project priority and resettlement
communes have beengiven an increased priority inthe provision o f credit by VBARD or other
financial institution since the start o f the Project. VBARD recognizes that without Project
funding ofcredit and support intraining farmers it is unlikelyto achieve the target set for credit
provision. It was agreed duringthe Restructuring Mission inJuly 2003 that part o f the cost


                                                   - 23 -

  savings that would result from restructuring would be disbursed to VBARD to finance inpart the
  sub-loans to smallholders.

  Component3: Social Support Program

  5.      This component is designed to benefitvulnerable communes and communes (or villages)
  receiving re-settlers, includingethnic minorities. It constitutes an interface with the beneficiaries
  and shows impressive progress: as the preparation o f all planned CAPs and Village Action Plans
  (VAPs) is completed inthe four provinces. However, implementationi s slow inBac LieuandCa
  Mau provinces because o f excessive delays inobtainingtheir PPCs' approval o f technical designs
  andprocurement packages. Conversely, implementationi s proceeding satisfactorily inTra Vinh,
  where the execution o f all CAPs and VAF's will be completed by the end o f December, 2004 and
  SOCTrang, where it i s expected that the execution o f all CAPs and VAPs will be 70 percent
  completedby December 31, 2004 (and the remaining 30 percent by March 31,2005).

  Sub-component3(a): CommunalFund(CF)

  6.     The CF received an original allocation of approximately US$8.26 million. The
 operational procedures for usingthe CF and implementing the CAPs have been finalized and
 included inthe revised PIM. The CF i s the major source o f fundingunder Component 3 and all
 provinces are committed to implementtheir own CAPs and VAPs withinthe remaining life o f the
 Project.

 Sub-component 3@):Social Support Fund(SSF)

 7.      The SSF received an original allocation o f approximately US$1 million. N o activities
 have started under this sub-component, which i s entirely funded by the DANIDA Grant.
 Guidelines for the use o f the SSF, particularly the micro-finance fund, have beenprepared.
 Agreement has been reached on the use o f a simple mechanism, identical inall four provinces,
 usingthe Vietnam Bank for Social Policy (VBSP) andthe Women's Union (WU)to establish a
revolving fund as stipulated inthe DCA. It i s expected that this revolving fund will be
 established no later than December 31,2004. With respect to the "Productive Grants" and the
 "Special Emergency Support", no informationhas been collected so far on specific needs, with
the exception o f illiteracy eradication support for the poor, and it is unlikelythat these activities
couldbe implemented duringthe remaining period o f the Project because o f several difficulties,
not least the time needed to build appropriate financial management capacity at the commune
level to manage them. Therefore, it was agreed that the Project would focus on an Illiteracy
Eradication Program. Giventhe highnumber o fpoor Khmerpeople in SOCTrang, this Program
has been designed as part o f the SSF and will be implemented inclose collaboration with a non-
governmental organization (NGO), Action-Aid Vietnam. SOCTrang PPMUand Action-Aid
Vietnam have signed a Memorandumo f Understandingto provide the training, usingthe
REFLECTmethodat no cost. The REFLECT method is an illiteracyreduction method linkedto
participatory and social development approaches. Registration for beneficiaries o f this program
i s now under way inthree Project districts (VinhChau, LongPhu and Cu Lao Dung).




                                                -24-

 Sub-component 3(c): EthnicMinorityDevelopmentFund(EMDF)

 8.       This sub-component received from the DANIDAGrant an original allocation of
 approximately US$770,000 for three provinces (SOCTrang, Bac Lieuand Tra Vinh) butthe
 majority o f the EMDFi s concentrated in SOCTrang. The EMDFprocurementplans o f Tra Vinh,
 SOCTrang and Bac Lieureceived IDA'Sno-objection on May 24, 2004, and are being
 implemented. It i s expected that the procurementplans for activities to be financed through the
 EMDFinSOCTrang andTra Vinhwouldbefully implementedbythe endofDecember 2004,
 while inBac Lieu province technical design still awaits approval by the PPC.

 Component 4: Policy andInstitutionalDevelopment

 9.       There was significant progress inthe implementation o f this component over the last
 year. The FPZ survey in2003 provides good information to guide land-use planning (LUP),
 zoning exercises and forest planting. The study on restructuring o f two Forest andFisheries
 Enterprises (FFEs) inCa Mau (Dam Doi and Tam Giang FFEs) was completed inMay 2004 (see
 comments below). A training course on Geographical InformationSystem (GIS) and the Global
 Positioning System (GPS) and remote sensing applications for LUPwas organized inMay 2004
 for PPMUs. InTra Vinh, LUPhas been carried out by Government programs for all Project
 communes (seven communes) and approvedby the District People's Committee (DPC). InCa
 Mau, LUP for all eleven communes has been carried out, o f which two LandUse Plans have been

the DPCs . However, there hasbeen little progress inLUPinSOCTrang andBac Lieuprovinces
approved (for Tan Thuan and KhanhBinhTay communes) and nine are awaiting the approval o f

and land allocation has not started inany o f the provinces. Selection of consultants for land use
survey in the BZhas suffered long delays. Inaddition, several other components (Resettlement,
TDT, and Social Support) are handicapped bythe non-availability ofkey information fromthis
component and, with the restructuringo f the Project, emphasis will be given to its
implementation. The carrying-out o f the BufferZone Land-Use Study i s of key importance and,
together with the base-line study, i s essential for the achievement o f a basic objective o f the
Project - that o f issuingland-use certificates ("red books") to eligible residents.

Component 5: Resettlementof FPZ Occupants

 10.     All four Projectprovinces have started implementing resettlementactivities, especially
Ca Mau where most o f the actions required at the MTRhave been completed (e.g., approval by

the Detailed Measurement Survey - DMS). However, the implementationrate i s still very slow
the PPC for replacementland, construction of 116houses at the Tan An site, and completion o f

and some activities are far behindschedule, inparticular the development o fresettlement sites
and agricultural replacement land development (only about 11percent implemented to date),
compensationincash for affected assets (10 percent implemented to date), and the standard
housing for poor PAHs (13 percent implemented to date). The main reasons why the
implementation o fthe RAP i s below appraisal targets include: (a) the long delay inthe
recruitment o f TA consultants; (b) weak implementation capacity, especially inCa Mau and Bac
Lieuprovinces; (c) the slow approval ofPPCs for replacement landand counterpart funds to be
used for the compensationand rehabilitation; (d) some PAHs were moved or movedthemselves
prior to the Credit's effectiveness date (after Typhoon Linda in 1997); and (e) other Project
components relatedto the RAPhadnot been started.




                                                 - 25 -

 Component 6: ProjectMonitoringandEvaluation

 11.     This componenthasnotbeenrestructuredthoughthe cost was revisedto account for an
increase o f construction costs, particularly for the resettlement houses. There was significant
progress inthe Project M&E system. Over the first six months o f 2004, the CPO/PPMU/TA
focussed on establishing an MIS together with the required forms for preparation o f Project
monitoringreports that are consistent across the four provinces. Inaddition, efforts have been
made by Social Development Specialists and staff to collect information on socio-economic
indicators based on the 1997 Resettlement Survey data and to oversee implementation o f the
proposed CAPS,VAPs and Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP). Computerized systems
to support the MIS for Project reporting have also been established. As a result, reporting inthe
Project has been considerably improved, especially inthe CPO and SOCTrang. Inaddition, terms
o f reference for three o f the initial studies* needed for the component have been drafted. The
restructured component will contribute cost-effective and valuable support to the implementation
o f the Project and to its long-term sustainability. Moreover, the plannedmonitoringand analyses
remain an essential part of the environmental and social safeguards o f the entire Project.

Component 7: ProjectCoordinationandManagement

12.      This componenthas hadthe highestprogress rate, as about 60 percent ofthe total
disbursements (US3.4 million) have beendisbursed by the CPO and the PPMus, mainly to
purchase equipment and vehicles and to finance consultant services. However, this component
has been redesigned because: (a) it should be implemented with greater decentralization to the
provinces and by developing a participatory planning and budgeting processes; and (b) the TA
needs of each component shouldbe re-assessedto adhere to the revised outputs inthe agreed
time-frame for the remainingperiod o f implementation.




 Study onWater QualityMonitoring, PresentLandUse Survey inthe BufferZone, and Conducting
Baseline Surveys.


                                                  - 26-

                                                                                           Annex 2


                                               Vietnam
                    CoastalWetlandsProtectionandDevelopmentProject

                          DESCRIPTIONTHERESTRUCTUREDPROJECT
                                         OF



 26.     ProjectArea: The Project arearemains unchangedbutthe number o f communes
 covered by the Project has beenreduced from 48 to 33 priority communes. Taking into account
 the relatively good performance of SOCTrang and Tra Vinh provinces and the potentially
 unrecoverable delays experienced inCa Mauprovince, the number o f communes has been
 reducedby one in SOCTrang, two inBac Lieu, three inTra Vinh andnine inCa Mau. However,
 some activities (such as forest planting and protection, and small-holder credit) will be
 implemented inthe whole o f the originally-specified Project area to achieve both mangrove
 protection and poverty reduction objectives.

 2.      OrganizationalRestructuring: Previousnaturalresource management projects in
 Vietnam hadrelied on central coordination and administration through a single project
 management unit. Recognizing that such an approach had ledto difficulties inimplementation,
 especially inprocurement and financial management, the original design o f the Project specified
 that implementation would be decentralized to the provincial levelwith PPMUs established in
 each province. Inpractice, this innovative structure had a centralized administrative layer
 superimposed on it which resultedinobscuring the decision-making process and the assignation
 o fresponsibility, introducing delays inmany procedures, introducing redundant processes and
making the flow o f informationhighly inefficient. Inrestructuring the Project, its management
 (theday-to-day decision-making as well as the more strategic issues) will: (a) bemore
decentralizedto the provinces; (b) have much less interference from the CPO; and (c) merge the
Can Tho and Ca Mau offices o f the PFCUinto a single office locatedin SOCTrang province,
which i s central to the Project area. The new field office in SOCTrang was established inApril
20043and strengthened with staffcoming from Hanoi, includingan accountant, a procurement
officer and a planning officer inorder to give more autonomy to this unit inoperational activities.
All technical assistants are nowbasedinSOCTrang, with the exceptionofthe ChiefTechnical
Advisor who remained inHanoi, The PIM will berevisedto reflect these changes and remove
any ambiguities concerning Project management.

3.      The new structure provides maximumdecentralization inpractical terms to the provincial
level. Each implementation unit will be responsible for its own activities and its own Special
Account. At the central level, MARD's management role will be one o f policy formulation, co-
ordination, and monitoringo f implementation. The CPO will be responsible only for the TA
contract, the procurement o f some vehicles, and some training activities, while the CPO-FO in
SOCTrang will determine its own operational needs and activities within the limits o f the
restructuredProject: (a) at the local level, planning and operational decision-making will be
coordinated and providedwith technical support by the CPO-FO which will also implement,
together with the provinces, those activities that involve more than one province; and (b) at the
provincial level, each PPMUwill be responsible for implementing the Project under the control



 MARD DecisionNo.891 QDDNN-TCCBofApril 13,2004.


                                                - 2 7 -

 o f the its PPC. Each PPMUwill manage its own Special Account and the PPC will be
 responsible for releasingthe relevant counterpart funding.

 4.        To introduce flexible andperformance-based implementation, a system will be developed
 to monitor performance through the MIS and to reassign funds on a periodic basis to the best-
 performingprovinces and communes (interms o f disbursement rate and efficiency). This will
 ensure that funds are made available to those best placed to use themand reduce the possibility
 that undisbursed funds would remain at the end o f the Project's life.

 5.        Components: A summary description of each component, focusing on the main changes
 resultingfrom the restructuring o fthe Project, is presentedbelow.

 Component 1: Mangrove Planting,Rehabilitationand Protection

 6.        This component will be implementedinthe original 48 communes. It is estimatedthat an
 additional 2,578 ha will be planted over the period2004-2005, of which 845 ha will be inTra
 Vinh, 528 ha inSOCTrang, 300 ha inBac Lieu, and 905 ha inCa Mau, bringingthe forestedarea
 to 25,573 ha and forest cover inthe FPZ up to 95.3 percent. Inaddition, MARDreviewed and
 approved the revisednorms for new planting models (e.g., cost norms, survival rates and payment
 schedule) duringthe first quarter o f 2004.

 7.        The Project will consider supporting Forest Protection and Management Boards (FPMBs)
and mass organizations inprotecting the FPZ forests, provided that: (a) they are located far from
local communities; (b) protection contracts cannot practicably be allocated to households; and (c)
a soundproposal i s developed on how the forests will be effectively protected.

8.        Regarding the newly-established MuiCa Mau NationalPark, the Project will support the
preparation o f the Management Plan and provide funds for the boundary demarcation, the
purchase o f equipment and the construction o f facilities necessary to implement the Management
Plan.

Component 2: Technology DevelopmentandTransfer

9.        The TDT activities would be re-directed from on-farm research to on-farm trials with a
smaller scope and would focus on the 33 priority communes. In addition, the terms of reference
o f the Farming Systems Advisor have beenchanged to those appropriate to a FarmingExtension
and TrainingAdvisor, and eachprovince has prepared a training/demonstrationprogram.

10.       Rural Credit Sub-component: The funds released inthe IDA Credit from Project
restructuring(estimated at US$6 million) will be re-allocated to the VBARD to finance inpart the
sub-loans to smallholders. VBARD will share the cost o f the sub-component by providingthe
necessary funds from its own resources (i.e., US$4.2 million) to make up the total cost o f the
component (USS10.2 million) which will remain unchanged. Credit proceeds are made available
to VBARD subject to: (a) specific guidelines for the use o f the funds; and (b) a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement betweenthe Ministry o f Finance (MOF) and VBARD. These documents have been
prepared and agreed upon.

11.       VBARD will provide short- and medium-term credit to individuals, family households,
cooperative groups and private enterprises inthe Project area, with sub-loans denominated in
Vietnamese currency at market interest rates. Environmental concerns will be given particular
attention. The MOF will take the foreign exchange risk and VBARD will take all risks associated


                                                -28-

 with the sub-loans. To facilitate the implementationand to minimize VBARD's additional costs,
 the scheme will be as close to VBARD's current credit lines and guidelines as possible.
 VBARD's capacity inprovidingthis service andinmonitoring its activities inthe Project areas
 will also be strengthened.

 Component3: Social Support Program

 12.      Development and Implementation of the CAPSand the CF The total amount allocated to
 the CF remains unchanged and activities under this sub-component will be implemented in33
 priority communes. The allocation for each commune will be based on the latest Ministryof
 Labor, Invalids and Social Affairs (MOLISA) census; however, some adjustments would be made
 to take into account the different dates o f the censuses (which can imply a difference inthe
 poverty line adopted), the presence of re-settlers innine communes which do not have a VAP,
 and the need to target activities to the very poor and vulnerable households (e.g., landless and
 illegal migrants). Implementation arrangements will be developed and included inthe draft
 guidelinesas part o fthe revised PIM.

 13,      Implementation of the SSF.The activities o f this sub-component will focus on:
 (a) micro-finance activities through a simple mechanism, identical inall four provinces, usingthe
 VBSP andthe WU: the VBSP would also be responsible for management of the funds after the
 Project' completion date: the interest rate charged to end-borrowers should allow the VBSP to
 cover its costs andrisks; and (b) financing an illiteracy eradication support program. These
 proposals would be reflected inthe guidelines which will be included inthe PIM. The total
 amount allocated to the SSF has beenreducedto about US$800,000.

 14.     Implementation of the EMDF: The implementation o f these activities will be basedon
 EMDPs which have been established for each eligible commune and received the corresponding
 no-objection from the Bank inMay 2004. These EMDPs cover the period 2004-2006 and include
 annual tranches o f funding. The implementation arrangements are included inthe guidelines
preparedby CPO with support o f the TA and will be included inthe revisedPIM. The total
amount allocated to the EMDFremains unchanged at approximately US$800,000.

 Component 4: Policy andInstitutionalDevelopment

 15.     The component will be implemented as designed, with significant strengthening
including the preparation o f an Action Plan to address specific issues: (a) the regulatory regime to
support zoning and the procedures to implement zoning; (b) the institutional capacity o f the
agencies implementing the zoning; and (c) training and capacity-building requirements. The sub-
component o f FFErestructuring will be radically strengthened. The PIM will be fully revised and
have a time-bound and agreed action plan.

Component 5: Resettlementof FPZOccupants

16.      The component will be implemented with some changes in studies and monitoring
indicators, and will be implemented to comply with the RAP. The resettlement o f households
outside the FPZ will be necessary to preserve the mangrove ecosystem and allow for its
rehabilitation. Every effort has been made to reduce unnecessary involuntaryresettlement.
According to the RAP, there are 3,741 households inthe FPZ o f which 2,149 PAHs would be
relocated and 1,592 would remaininthe FPZ (Le., those fishing families living near river mouths,
families livingin fast accretion areas, and families farming on elevated sandy soils).




                                                 - 2 9 -

 17.     The restructuring for this component i s based on the updatedDMS; the number of PAHs
according to the updated DMS i s slightly differentfrom the RAP. Modifications inthis
component include: (a) the acceptanceof cash compensation at replacement cost for already
relocatedself-moved PAHs inBac Lieuprovince which prefer to receive "cash for land" instead
o f "land for land" compensation; (b) increasedunit costs for a standard house and development o f
the resettlement site (from US$970 per house and US$875 per PAHto US$1,500 and US$I,800,
respectively); and (c) the extension of the RAP implementationperiodto 2005.

Component 6: ProjectMonitoringandEvaluation

18.      In the shorter Project implementationperiod, there is lesstime to collect time-series data
and fewer time intervals to collect data that might show significant trends. Since some o f the
special studies would include activities that are also part of base-line monitoring, these will be
mergedwith the routine monitoring activities. Three activities were therefore merged
(environmental monitoring studies and analysis, socio-economic monitoringand analysis, and
special M&E studies). Inaddition, the activity to improve coordination o f environmental data
producers inthe Mekong Delta was included with other training activities. A new activity was
added that includes all o f the internal Project monitoring and management of information.

Component 7: ProjectCoordination andManagement

19.     This component has beenradically re-arranged, with anew focus on those activities
exclusivelyfinanced by the two Special Accounts (one for IDA and one for DANIDA),including
the TA contract and training activities. All activities to be implementedbythe provinces have
been transferred to the six other components.




                                                -30-

                                                                                                 Annex 3
                                                Vietnam
                         Coastal Wetlands Protection and Development Project

                       REVISEDPROJECT COSTESTIMATES            AND FINANCING    PLAN




                             TABLE1: PROJECTCOSTSBY COMPONENT




                              TABLE PROJECTCOSTSBYFINANCIER
                                       2:


                                                                         Estimated Cost
                        Financier                                          (US% million)
                                                               PAD       I   Revised      1     Change

 DANIDA                                                        11.3             7.3               - 4.0*
  Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development           10.2            4.2                -- 0.2
                                                                                                     6.0
I Government   o f Vietnam                                     12.3            12.1
                                               Total   1       65.6      1     55.4       1      -10.2      1
 Note  *  This reductioninthe amount ofthe Grant is basedon the exchange rate prevailing at the date o f
 effectiveness. The reductiono f the Grant amount is equal to approximately US$6 million at the current
 exchange rate between the Danish Kroner and the US$.




                                                  - 31 -

                                                          Annex 4
                           Vietnam
       CoastalWetlands ProtectionandDevelopmentProject

TABLE3: REVISED
              CREDIT WITHDRAWALSCHEDULE (BY CATEGORY, INSDR)




                            - 32 -

          E




I    E    E   x

      E
n




%c




I     z    irA


           I




           I

