Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-231 6-ES
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
April 26, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1        = 02.50
Colones (0) = US$0.40
SDR 1       = 02.714
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AID         U.S. Agency for International Development
BFA         Agricultural Development Bank
CABEI       Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM        Central American Common Market
CENAP       National Productivity Center
CENCAP      National System of Agricultural Training
CENTA       National Center of Agriculture and Livestock Technology
ENA         National School of Agriculture
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
ILO         International Labor Organization
ISTA        Institute of Agrarian Transformation of El Salvador
NVTC        National Vocational Training Council
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO       United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EL SALVADOR
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:           Republic of El Salvador
AMOUNT:              US$9.0 million
TERMS:               Repayment in 20 years including a grace period of five
years at an interest of 7.5 percent per annum.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:       The project would assist the Government in establishing
a nationwide institutional structure for non-formal
agricultural and industrial training to meet the require-
ments for technical manpower and increase the productivity
and income of small and medium-size farmers, agricultural
workers, unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled workers,
their supervisors and managers, and small- and medium-
scale entrepreneurs.
The project consists of:
(a) construction, equipping and furnishing of three
industrial training centers, and equipping and
furnishing of ten mobile training units;
(b) construction, equipping, and furnishing of facilities
for training a total of 420 supervisory personnel
and small- and medium-scale entrepreneurs each year;
(c) construction, equipping, and furnishing of nine
new agricultural training centers including
facilities for a national center and eight regional
centers; and
(d)  technical assistance to the Government for project
implementation and evaluation, for initiating new
itraining programs, and for strengthening the
Lnstitutional framework for national vocational
itraining.
The project entails no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:
US$ Million Equivalent
Local Foreign"' Total
Agricultural Training
Rural Training Centers            1.0      1.0      2.0
In-Service Training Center        0.3      0.1      0.4
Industrial Training
San Salvador Center               1.2      1.1      2.3
San Miguel and
Santa Ana Centers               1.0      1.0      2.0
Mobile Units                        *      0.1      0.1
Training Needs Survey               *      0.1      0.1
Manager, Supervisor and
Entrepreneur Training
National Productivity
Center (CENAP)                  0.3     0.2       0.5
Technical Assistance               0.1      1.6       1.7
Project Implementation             0.3        *      0.3
Base Costs                     4.2     5.2       9.4
Contingencies
Physical                          0.4      0.5      0.9
Price                             1.4      1.0      2.4
Total Costs                    6.0     6.7      12.7
*    Under US$0.1 million
FINANCING PLAN:                                          US$ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign   Total
Bank                                 2.3       6.7       9.0
Government                           3.7         -       3.7
Total Project Cost              6.0       6.7     12.7
ESTIMATED                                            US$ Million Equivalent
DISBURSEMENTS:    Bank FY                     1979      1980     1981      1982
Annual                      0.7       1.9      5.4       1.0
Cumulative                  0.7      2.6       8.0       9.0
APPRAISAL REPORT:   Report No. 1339-ES dated April 21, 1978



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$9.0 million to the Republic of El Salvador to help
finance an Industrial and Agricultural Training Project. The loan would have
a term of 20 years, includiLng 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.5 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on El Salvador" (1313-ES) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 24, 1977. The main findings
of this report, as supplemented by information subsequently obtained by Bank
staff, are summarized below. Country data are contained in Annex I.
Economic Grow;th and Prospects
3.        El Salvador is one of the poorest countries in the Western Hemisphere,
with estimated per capita income of US$490 in 1976. It has the smallest land
area of the five countries in the Central American Common Market (CACM) area,
but with over 4 million inhabitants, it has the second largest population in
the area, the highest population density (195 per square kilometer), and only
3 hectares of arable land per capita. These density ratios are comparable to
those of the Caribbean Islands and India. Not only must El Salvador increase
agricultural productivity rapidly--since it has no land frontier--it must at
the same time expand its manufactured exports at a rapid rate if it is to
continue to grow satisfactorily over the longer term.
4.        The nation's population has grown at a very fast pace.  Between 1961
and 1971, the growth rate was 3.5 percent per annum, a result both of rapid
natural growth (3.1 percent per annum) and of repatriation of Salvadorians
living in Honduras. The Government is carrying out a family planning program
with the support of the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID), the
United Nations Family Planning Agency and the Planned Parenthood Federation.
The program is focusing on rural areas where the birth rate remains high and
family planning motivation is low. By mid-1977, an estimated 20 percent of
the fertile female population was being reached by public and private family
planning programs, and this figure is expected to increase to 26 percent by
the end of the decade.
1/   Unchanged from the President's Report for the Third Telecommunications
Project (P-2152-ES) dated April 21, 1978.



5.        El Salvador's poverty is evident from a variety of indicators.
Nutritional standards are among the lowest in Latin America. Calorie and
protein deficiencies are common, particularly among pre-school children.
Roughly 68 percent of the dwellings are without piped water and 55 percent
without access to electricity. The illiteracy rate is high. Income is highly
concentrated and unemployment is substantial. Living conditions and incomes
in rural areas, which account for about 60 percent of the population, are
considerably worse than in the cities. Although the Government made some
efforts to change the structure of land ownership, the pattern of rural
landholding remains very skewed. As a result of urban-rural differentials,
migration of the rural population to the cities is substantial. The urban
income distribution, however, is also skewed and living conditions in the
cities are difficult for people in the lowest income brackets.  About three-
quarters of the population of metropolitan San Salvador resides in makeshift
squatter settlements. Minimum industrial wages are low; furthermore, workers
employed in small factories or self-employed in informal work shops have
incomes which are often below the minimum wage. Small informal business
activities have created employment at essentially subsistence levels for
almost one-half of the total urban labor force. The Government recognizes
these urban problems and is making efforts to remedy them (see paragraph 12).
6.        While the Salvadorian economy still depends heavily on agriculture,
which contributes about 25 percent of GDP, the relatively fast growing indus-
trial sector now accounts for 23 percent of GDP. Agriculture, however,
continues to employ nearly 55 percent of the labor force, compared with only
about 15 percent employed in industry. An ongoing Government program of
agricultural development, which gives emphasis to the promotion of basic
grains through the provision of credit, technical assistance and support
prices, has already had a strong positive impact on production. This program
is expected to continue in the future and, partly as a result, the agricultural
sector is expected to grow at about 4.5 percent per year in the medium term.
7.        During the first half of the 1970's, El Salvador's GDP grew in real
terms at an average rate of 5 percent per year -- about 2 percent on a per
capita basis. Growth during the period compared favorably with the 4.5
percent annual growth of the second half of the 1960's, although it fell
considerably behind the 7 percent annual growth of the first half of the
1960's, when the development of the CACM gave impetus to industrial pro-
duction. The growth rate is estimated at 4.7 percent and 6.2 percent for 1976
and 1977 as a result mainly of the unusually favorable price of coffee which
stimulated domestic demand and output.
8.        With a further improvement of the world economy, and with the
Government export-promotion policies described below, real exports of manufac-
tures are expected to grow by 9-10 percent annually in the coming years
compared with 6 percent during 1970-75. This should have a strong impact on
the growth of the manufacturing sector. The overall GDP is expected to
continue to grow in real terms at about 5-6 percent annually, at least until
the mid-1980s. This growth could be attained more easily if the mediation
process now underway between the Governments of Honduras and El Salvador



results in a normalization of relations between the two countries. Should
this happen, it would facilitate a full restoration of the CACM arrange-
ments which were partially disrupted by Honduras' withdrawal in 1970.
The Public Sector and Development Policy
9.        The role of the Government in the economy traditionally has been
supportive rather than a leading one. Public revenues and expenditures have
been maintained at relatively low levels and, consequently, the growth of
public services such as health, education and agricultural extension has been
slow. However, under the 1973-77 Development Plan, some progress was achieved
in this area. Thus, the share of Central Government revenues in GDP increased
from an average 11.1 percent in 1970-72 to 13.1 percent in 1973-76, while
the share of public savings and investment in GDP increased from 3.3 to 4.4
percent and from 3.2 to 6.4 percent, respectively. The improvement in revenue
performance has been mainly the result of better tax administration, which
helped to quintuple the number of individual taxpayers within a three-year
period and, in 1976, of the progressive tax levied on coffee exports which had
reached exceptionally high prices. Further modifications of the basic tax
system, which has remained virtually unchanged for many years, could provide
additional income and thus make possible a stronger development effort.
10.       The Salvadorian Government is also giving increased attention to the
rural sector, intended to be the first stage of a broader long-term plan of
"national transformation" designed to attack the serious unemployment problem.
Effective unemployment (including underemployment) in El Salvador is estimated
to be at least 30 percent of the labor force. By embarking upon a program to
change the structure of production of the agricultural sector, the Government
could bring about an increase in rural incomes and a reduction of seasonal
unemployment. This, in turn, might lead to a slowdown of migration to urban
centers, improvement in nutritional standards, and the creation of an expanded
domestic market for industrial products. As a first step in its rural develop-
ment plan, the Government in May 1975 secured passage in the Congress of
El Salvador's first comprehensive land reform law. This law provides a frame-
work for the Government to expropriate land (with deferred payments) for
redistribution to small farmers in agrarian reform projects developed by a new
Institute of Agrarian Transformation (ISTA). Government efforts to go forward
with a major land reform project in 1976, however, were unsuccessful because
of strong resistance from larger farmers. The new administration that took
office in July 1977 secured passage last December of an amendment to the land
reform law which reflects the intention to redirect the focus of the program.
This amendment eliminates the requirement that land to be redistributed be
limited to ISTA project areas, but it authorizes ISTA to acquire land outside
such areas by purchase only. It is too early to assess the impact of the
amendment.
11.       The Salvadorian authorities recognize that with the country's limited
arable land and high population density, the development of the rural sector,
while important, could not suffice either to maintain a satisfactory rate of
economic growth or to provide employment for the quickly expanding labor
force. The Government has therefore embarked upon a broad program for the



- 4 -
promotion of industrial exports to countries outside the CACM area. An Export
Development Law which offers generous incentives to export industry, was
passed in 1974. Furthermore, the Government is developing free trade zones
for the production of industrial goods exclusively for export. The first of
these free zones, located in the outskirts of San Salvador, is well advanced
with a number of plants already in operation -- many of them foreign
industries with labor-intensive assembling processes. The existence of a
strong and growing entrepreneurial class in the country should contribute
to the success of the export promotion program. However, the program also
requires considerable investment in supporting economic and social infra-
structure in fields such as power, communications, water supply, education and
housing. Shortages in any of these fields, especially those affecting human
resources, would seriously hamper the competitiveness of the Salvadorian
industrial sector and could have a lasting detrimental effect on the future
development of the country.
12.       To improve living conditions in the urban areas, the Government has
provided 13,062 housing units for low- and medium-income households during
1973-75, through the existing Government housing agencies, and supplied physical
inputs for community development projects through the Government's community
development agency. A private organization, Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo
y Vivienda Minima (FSDVM), in the last few years has become a major provider
of low-cost housing and community development in cooperation with Government
agencies and with financial support from the Bank Group. By mid-1977, FSDVM
had planned, designed and assisted in the construction of over 4,000 serviced
sites. Further Government efforts are under way to improve housing conditions
and incomes in San Salvador and several major cities by financing the construc-
tion of over 60,000 urban housing units during 1978-82 by providing access
to land, basic services, infrastructure, and housing credit to over 10,000 of
the lowest income families, by making available credit and training programs
for informal industrial expansion, and by providing industrial training for
5,600 skilled and semi-skilled workers a year in the urban areas.
Balance of Payments and External Debt
13.       The small size and limited natural resources of El Salvador make it
highly dependent on foreign trade. Following the 1969 conflict with Honduras,
all exports to that country, which accounted for over 10 percent of the
country's merchandise exports, were suspended. Moreover, the closing of the
border with Honduras resulted in a considerable increase in transport costs of
goods traded with other Central American countries. By 1972, El Salvador had
regained its market share in the CACM, offsetting the loss of the Honduran
market by increasing its exports to Guatemala. In the following years, how-
ever, the world recession adversely affected El Salvador's manufacturing
exports to both the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD) and CACM countries. Fortunately, increased world prices for the
principal export commodities -- coffee and cotton -- and the substantial
increase in their export volume helped to soften the effect of the decline
in manufacturing exports.



- 5 -
14.       While coffee and cotton remain the most important commodities,
El Salvador's exports the 1970s are much more diversified than a decade
earlier. During 1959-61, nearly 80 percent of export earnings were derived
from the two traditional products; almost 65 percent came from coffee alone.
By 1974-76 these figures had dropped to about 52 percent and 41 percent
respectively, while the contribution of manufactured products had increased
from 13 percent to about 30 percent of export earnings.
15.       Following seven years of either positive or slightly negative
balances in the current account of the balance of payments, unusually high
deficits occurred in 1974 and 1975 -- 8.8 and 5.8 percent of GDP, respective-
ly--as a consequence of the oil crisis. Subsequently and because of the
sharp increase in coffee prices, which boosted El Salvador's export earnings,
the balance of payments returned to its earlier healthy situation. In 1976
and 1977, the current account was in virtual equilibrium and foreign exchange
reserves increased.
16.       Coffee prices, while declining, are expected to be still relatively
high in the next year or two, while manufactured exports and tourism receipts
are expected to grow more rapidly than in the recent past. Nevertheless,
high prices of crude oil and oil-based products (fertilizers and others) will
continue to be a serious burden on the country's foreign exchange earnings --
the share of petroleum, oil and lubricants alone in imports increased from
2.2 percent in 1970 to aboult 7 percent in 1976. In the medium term, the real
price of coffee is expected to decline considerably. Therefore, in order to
strengthen the balance of 'payments in the future, substantial effort to
diversify and expand exports will be required.
17.       As of the end of 1976, the country's external public debt outstanding
and disbursed repayable in foreign currency amounted to US$272.3 million, or
12.5 percent of GDP. The public debt service ratio is estimated to have
declined sharply from 9.2 percent in 1975 to 4.2 percent in 1976, partly
because the 1975 figure reflected heavy prepayment of commercial loans but also
because of high proceeds from coffee exports in 1976. This temporarily
advantageous situation is bound to change and, even if a major portion of
future external borrowing is obtained on soft terms, the public debt service
ratio is expected to increase somewhat--to about 6 percent in the mid-1980s.
External Assistance
18.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has been an increasingly
important lender to El Salvador for such sectors as power, water and sewerage,
and agricultural credit. While IDB lending was largely repayable in local
currency through 1972, the bulk of its loans in recent years is repayable in
foreign currency. The Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI) has
focused on industry and infrastructure projects with a regional impact, while
the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID) has assisted in the fields
of agriculture, health, baLsic education, housing and industry. The activities
of the major lenders during the 1950-77 period are summarized in the following
table:



EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO EL SALVADOR, 1950-1977
(In Millions of US Dollars)
IBRD    IDA    AID       IDB    CABEI      Total
Total                               159.6   25.6   60.7   197.0    120.2        563.1
Cumulative Lending 1950-65           50.2    8.0   27.1    32.5         7.9     125.7
Cumulative Lending 1966-77          109.4   17.6   33.6   164.5    112.3        437.4
Transport                          2.8     -       -      22.0     60.1       84.9
Power and Telecommunications   75.8    5.6         -      38.1      7.6      127.1
Education                        21.6      -    10.1       2.0       1.1      34.8
Health                              -      -      2.7      5.3        -        8.0
Housing and Urban                  9.2   12.0    3.0    19.3         7.0      50.5
Agriculture                         -      -    10.5    26.5        0.2       37.2
Industry                           -       -      4.8       -      23.8       28.6
Water and Sewerage                  -      -       -      49.7       -        49.7
Others                              -      -      2.5      1.6      12.5      16.6
19.       The balance of payments and growth projections call for an
acceleration in El Salvador's total borrowing from major multilateral and
bilateral lenders. While El Salvador has traditionally maintained a low
debt-service ratio, the country's widespread poverty, the serious imbalance
between natural resources and population as well as the uncertain long-term
prospects of its main exports and the strong dependence of its industrial
sector on imported inputs limit the country's capacity to borrow abroad on
conventional terms. Under these circumstances, if domestic savings--which
at about 18 percent of GDY are relatively high for a country of thi.s income
level--are to be complemented by a reasonable proportion of external capital
at the same time as social projects with a low foreign expenditure component
are undertaken, external assistance in excess of the foreign exchange component
of individual development projects is called for.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       El Salvador has to date received sixteen Bank loans and four IDA
credits totalling US$185.2 million. An operation involving a Bank loan of
US$23 million for telecommunications is scheduled for consideration by the
Executive Directors on May 11, 1978. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1978, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.



21.       At the end of 1976, the Bank Group held 24.6 percent of the
US$272.3 million external public debt outstanding and disbursed repayable in
foreign currency. This share is likely to remain substantially the same over
the remainder of the decade. The Bank Group's share of total public debt
service in 1976 was 13.8 percent, and, because of the relatively softer terms
provided by the other major external lending agencies, is projected to reach
about 17 percent by 1980.
22.       In the past, the Bank Group assisted El Salvador in the development
of its infrastructure through projects in highways, power and telecommuni-
cations. Together with IDB and CABEI, the Bank assisted the development of
El Salvador's.arterial highway system. A close relationship has evolved
between the Bank and El SaLvador's public power agency, Comision Ejecutiva
del Rio Lempa (GEL), since its establishment, enabling the Bank to contribute
significantly to the instiltution building efforts of GEL's management.
Similarly, the Bank's efforts to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
national telecommunications agency (ANTEL) have helped improve its organization
and facilitated the rapid expansion of the agency's operations.
23.       Bank Group lending for the social sectors has been much less than
that of IDB and AID, principally because of the Salvadorians' preference for
the softer lending terms offered by these agencies. Nevertheless, the Bank
Group has begun developing an important role in the social sectors with the
result that three of the five most recent loans have been for education and
serviced sites. Projects currently under consideration for Bank loans, in
addition to the one now being presented, include primary and secondary educa-
tion, squatter upgrading, small business credit, and urban sanitation. These
projects would help El Salvador meet the educational needs of its rural
population and develop a broad program of urban improvement addressed primarily
to the lowest income groups. In addition, the Bank Group would help in meeting
the growing requirements in power and in the further strengthening of the
public power agency. The Government has so far met its requirements for
external finance for agriculture and rural development largely through loans
from IDB and AID. The possibility of Bank assistance to these sectors is
being examined in the light of a recently completed FAO/CP agricultural
and rural development survey of El Salvador, which has identified a project
for small-farm credit. It is not yet clear, however, that this project will
require external financing in addition to what IDB is planning to make
available to the credit institution involved.
24.       IFC has made two' investments in El Salvador.  The first, a US$140,000
loan made in 1959 to Industrias Textiles, S.A., has been fully repaid. The
second, a US$233,000 equity investment and US$600,000 loan to Hoteles de
Centroamerica, S.A., in 1969, was for a hotel project that was completed in
1972. IFC is exploring pcossibilities of additional investments to encourage
private enterprise in El Salvador.



- 8 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
25.       The high rate of growth and the young age structure of the population
of El Salvador necessitate a rapid expansion of educational opportunities,
particularly to acquire practical knowledge and skills needed for employment.
In the last 20 years the population has doubled and the proportion under 15
years of age increased from 41 percent to 46 percent. At present, about 37
percent of the total labor force is illiterate. Illiteracy is particularly
high in the rural sector (56 percent) and, together with the low level of
educational attainment, constitutues a barrier to the diffusion of modern
techniques in agricultural and livestock production. There is thus a large
and growing need to expand basic, practically oriented education for the
adult labor force, particularly in the rural areas. There is also a pressing
need to reinforce rural extension and training services to provide farmers and
rural workers with modern production techniques. With respect to the modern
sectors, it would also be necessary to strengthen training services, especially
of skilled and semi-skilled workers, to meet the manpower requirements of
existing industry, and to give El Salvador's labor force the skills necessary
to attract investment for new labor-intensive industries.
26.       Assuming that the economy would grow at 5-6 percent p.a., with the
agricultural sector growing less rapidly and industry and infrastructural
services at a faster pace, it is estimated that average annual requirements
for additional manpower (including replacements) would be on the order of
5,000 professionals and technicians, 14,000 office and sales workers, 18,000
agricultural workers and 15,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers. On the
supply side, the formal education system would provide mainly professional
(2,000), office and sales workers (8,700), and a few industrial workers
(2,400). Since the formal system is not designed to meet fully the require-
ments for new trained manpower, let alone provide the necessary substantial
upgrading of the existing pool of manpower to enhance its productivity and
mobility, the first priority, at this stage, for human resource development
in El Salvador is to organize systematic nonformal training programs to
supplement the formal education system.
Overview of Formal Education Sector
27.       Basic education in the formal system consists of nine years equally
divided into three cycles; and secondary education (grades 10-12) permits
specialization in academic subjects, commerce, administration, pedagogy, in-
dustrial and vocational arts, agriculture, hotel and tourism, navigation and
fishery, and health. Higher education is provided by two autonomous univer-
sities, one national and one private, and by various post-secondary institu-
tions. The Ministry of Education and Culture is responsible for administration
of all levels except higher education.
28.       The Government began systematic planning of the development of its
education and training sector in the 1960s, with the adoption of the (1968-72)



- 9 -
First Education Development Plan. The First Plan had ambitious aims:
(a) restructuring of the edLucation system to provide nine years of basic
education free of charge for every child, and diversified secondary school
programs rather than the traditional academic courses; (b) strengthening
administration and educational supervision; (c) providing low-cost learning
materials and introducing educational television; (d) rationalizing the
teacher training system; and (e) increasing educational opportunities for the
rural population. Although basic education expanded rapidly (6 percent per
annum) under the First Plan, it covered only 66 percent of the relevant age
group (7-15 years) by 1972, and the imbalance in educational opportunities
between urban and rural areas was not corrected. Also, the diversification of
secondary education, the revision of curricula and the provision of low-cost
learning materials was not completed. Nevertheless, basic improvements in the
institutional framework for formal education were established with the regional-
ization of school supervisiLon, the introduction of educational television, and
the establishment in the Miinistry of Education of the Technical and Pedagogic
Studies Department, the Textbook Production Workshop, and the Office of
Planning and Coordination.
29.       The Second Education Development Plan (1973-77) supported con-
tinuation of the reform measures introduced under the First Plan and contained
some new programs to meet tLhe needs of the productive sectors and improve the
quality and efficiency of ithe formal education system. Pursuant to this Plan,
basic education opportunities in the rural areas are being extended to cover
70 percent of the relevant age-group through construction of new schools
and more efficient utilization of existing ones. The rural schools are
being converted into community learning centers to launch a basic skills
training program for the rural population, and an accelerated basic education
course is being introduced for over-age students. In addition, practical
subjects are being introduced in basic education and the introduction of
diversified curricula into secondary education is being completed.
30.       At present, the Government faces the challenging task of improving
quality and efficiency of the system: Revised curricula have still to be
reflected in new textbooks and educational materials; low salaries do not
attract high calibre teachers; there is a need for intensive in-service
training; repetition and drop-out rates are high; the limited coverage and
high unit cost of educational television have thwarted its original objective
of reaching the rural areas in a cost-effective manner to support unqualified
teachers; and except those from a few private schools, graduates of the
diversified secondary program (550 industrial, 190 agricultural, and 3,000
commercial students in 1974) have not yet reached the goals set out in the
Plan, either in numbers or in level of training achieved. The secondary
program has suffered mainly from insufficient allocation of funds for
recurrent expenditures, unqualified teachers and inadequate selection of
students. On the basis of an AID-assisted sector study, the Government is
preparing a project for Bank consideration to help strengthen the formal
education system, with special emphasis on quality improvements at both
primary and secondary levels.



- 10 -
Existing Agricultural and Industrial Training Services
31.       Agricultural Training:  Until recently, El Salvador has had no well-
defined policy for agricultural training. Sporadic efforts have been dispersed
among the public institutions responsible for agricultural development, with no
one agency responsible for coordination. Except for those trained abroad, most
agricultural technicians are graduates of the National School of Agriculture
(ENA), which has only recently been upgraded to offer post-secondary education.
Although enrollments and the number of graduates have increased under the
first Bank-financed education project (signed in June 1969), ENA's curricula
and the quality of its faculty need further improvement.
32.       Until recently the extension service of the Ministry of Agriculture
was the main vehicle for providing technical advice to farmers, but it lacked
qualified staff and adequate transport facilities, and experienced a high rate
of turnover. Hence, its training programs were limited to provision of techni-
cal information and advisory services, mainly for large or medium-scale farmers,
with little emphasis on the training of small-scale farmers, agricultural
workers, and rural women.
33.       As a result of the increasing priority which the Government has been
placing on raising agricultural productivity and the living standard of the
rural poor, various new institutions have been established during the 1970s,
including family planning services, a land reform institution, an agricultural
development bank and a research agency with extension services (National Center
of Agriculture and Livestock Technology--CENTA). With assistance from AID,
CENTA has recently developed an intensive land utilization and farm management
system which includes the use of multicropping and intercropping techniques,
and has incorporated the research findings into its extension operations with
very encouraging results.
34.       In January 1976, the Government undertook to supplement CENTA's
extension services by creating within the Ministry of Agriculture the National
System of Agricultural Training (CENCAP) to coordinate and implement non-
formal agricultural training and diffuse modern technology to farmers on a
large-scale but cost-effective basis. CENCAP will operate an in-service
training unit for professional and technical staff and a network of rural
training centers through which motivated farm and community leaders can
be contacted on a group rather than on an individual basis.
35.       Industrial Training:  Until recently, El Salvador has had no entity
responsible for determining the dimensions of the manpower problem and formu-
lating a coherent national strategy for modern sector training. A few training
programs exist for industrial and artisan occupations, but they are unsystem-
atic and lack adequate financing, personnel and physical facilities.
36.       The most important industrial training program (in terms of output
and potential impact on the labor market) is the one operated by the Manpower
Department of the Ministry of Labor. Although the program claims two-thirds
of the Departmental budget, this is insufficient to enable the Department to



- 11 -
retain an adequate number cf professional staff, or otherwise to implement
effective training. Courses have been limited mainly to clothing, welding and
the construction trades. Although the annual output of these training courses
has increased from 700 in 1964 to over 2,000 in 1975, the mode of training
lacks flexibility, the quality is poor, and there has been no systematic effort
to assess manpower requirements on an industrial, regional and occupational
basis. Furthermore, there has been no continuing dialogue with industry to
evaluate the training courses, no vocational guidance or counselling for
trainees, and no training standards by which workers could be tested and
certified for recognition by employers.
37.       As early as 1954, the Ministry of Economy created the National
Productivity Center (CENAP), with technical assistance from AID, to provide
services to all sectors of the economy in the fields of management training,
technical information, and direct consultancy services. However, after the
U.S. technical assistance ceased, CENAP had no clear-cut objectives, and oper-
ational programs were inconsistent because of frequent change in management,
the lack of qualified staff and inadequate government support. More recently,
CENAP has received assistance from the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization (UNIDO) in reshaping its operational programs for management
personnel. With the depariture of the UNIDO group at the end of 1976, the
Ministry of Economy incorporated the UNIDO-trained personnel into CENAP, which
was thereafter to concentrate on transferring modern technology through an
information service, providing consulting services for small and medium-size
firms, and training mid-management and supervisory personnel.
Non-Formal Agricultural and Industrial Training Program
38.       The new Government which took office in July 1977 has recognized the
need to reshape the vocational training system to support the country's devel-
opment. It has decided initially to expand and improve the system within the
existing organizational framework and with local financing entirely from
Government budgetary allocations. As a first step, the Government created in
December 1977 a National Vocational Training Council (NVTC), made up of the
Ministers of Labor, Planning, Economy, Agriculture and Education, together
with two representatives each of employers and trade unions. To assist the
Council, a full-time Technical Committee has been established with represen-
tatives from each of the aforementioned ministries. The Committee's first
task has been to delineate the major spheres of responsibility of each ministry
in the field of vocational training. This has been particularly important for
the Ministries of Education and Labor, where the potential for duplication and
overlapping of industrial training programs is greatest. As a continuing
responsibility, the Committee will review and comment to the Council on annual
plans and budgets for training proposed by each ministry and agency. The
Committee also is expected to be charged with preparing a plan for fulfilling
the Government's intention to establish, in the medium term, a specialized
training agency which would take over responsibility for all industrial train-
ing. The Government has aLgreed that by December 31, 1979, it would prepare
and submit to the Bank for comment studies for the establishment and operation
of such training agency (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04).



- 12 -
39.       Pursuant to the decisions reached by the Technical Committee of the
NVTC, the Ministry of Labor would undertake responsibility for all industrial
training for skilled occupations in the organized modern sector. The Manpower
Department of the Ministry of Labor would be reorganized and strengthened to
administer such programs. Operational emphasis would be placed on worker
upgrading through both in-plant training supported by mobile units and insti-
tutional training in fixed centers located at strategic locations. The
Ministry of Economy, through CENAP, would concentrate on management training,
consulting and information services. The Ministry of Education would under-
take nonformal basic education and training for the urban and rural poor. The
project proposed for Bank financing is designed to assist the training programs
of the Ministries of Labor, Economy and Agriculture. A complementary project,
which is being developed for financing by AID, will assist the Ministry of
Education in expanding its nonformal training activities. The rural training
component of the AID project will build on the pilot scheme being implemented
under the second Bank education loan (discussed in paragraph 41 below).
Prior Bank Education Projects
40.       Under the first Bank loan (Loan 609-ES of US$4.9 million equivalent)
signed in June 1969, the Bank supported implementation of those portions of
the First Education Plan related to development of formal secondary, agricul-
tural and technical education and the reorganization of the formal education
system. As noted in the Project Completion Report (PCR), the project, which
was completed in December 1974, had a significant impact on the development
of public secondary education in El Salvador (with project schools accounting
for 40 percent of all public secondary enrollments and instructional and
learning materials developed under the project reaching 61 percent of the
public secondary school population). Less successful were the efficiency
objectives of the project, with unit recurrent costs exceeding estimates
(because of poor utilization of some facilities), the teacher training program
falling short of the original objectives (because of the lack of specialists'
services and underutilization of fellowships), and enrollment in the agricul-
tural and industrial post-secondary schools and the industrial and agricultural
sections of the secondary schools being lower than anticipated. An audit
report prepared by Operations Evaluation Department and distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 21, 1977, agreed with the conclusions of the PCR.
(In view of the foregoing shortcomings, in the proposed project special atten-
tion has been paid to the intensive utilization of facilities and to the pro-
vision of an adequate level of specialists' services.)
41.       The project financed by the second Bank loan (Loan 1007-ES of
US$17.0 million equivalent) signed in June 1974, is supporting the Second
Education Plan objectives for expansion of basic education and training oppor-
tunities in rural areas. The second project, which like the first is being
implemented by the Ministry of Education, includes establishment of rural
basic schools offering a variety of education and training activities for
youths and adults and initiation of a mobile, nonformal rural training pilot
scheme. Although the project is about two-and-one-half years behind appraisal
schedule (due to initial delays caused by frequent turnover of technical staff,



- 13 -
shortage of construction materials, and lack of interest in school construction
in the rural areas by registered contractors), almost one-half of the 560
project schools have been completed and are in operation and the remainder of
the construction works are now proceeding satisfactorily. Bids for supply of
furniture and equipment for the first three of eight phases have been evaluated
and awarded. The pilot rural training program is being evaluated for future
expansion. It is anticipated that the project would be completed by the end
of 1980, approximately two years behind the original schedule.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The project was prepared by the Government assisted by a Bank/UNESCO
preparation mission which also appraised the project in May/June 1976. Subse-
quently, there were major C(abinet changes resulting in replacement of most of
the key ministers involved in preparation of the project. Questions were there-
after raised within the Cabinet as to the proper role of different ministries
in vocational training. In December 1976, the Government asked the Bank to
postpone further processing of the project, suggesting that it might be taken
up again with the new Government which was to assume office in July 1977. The
new Government requested the Bank to renew consideration of the project, and
a post-appraisal mission v:isited El Salvador in February 1978 to review the
project content with the Government, to coordinate activities with AID regard-
ing a complementary project (see paragraph 39), and to update project costs.
Negotiations were held in San Salvador on April 13 and 14, 1978. The principal
representative of the Government was the Minister of Labor and Social Welfare.
A report entitled "Staff Alppraisal Report, Industrial and Agricultural Training
Project, El Salvador," No. 1339-ES dated April 21, 1978, is being distributed
separately. Supplementary data are contained in Annex III.
Objectives and Composition
43.       The project would assist the Government in establishing a nationwide
institutional structure for non-formal agricultural and industrial training to
meet the requirements for technical manpower and increase the productivity and
income of small and medium-size farmers, agricultural workers, unskilled,
semi-skilled and skilled industrial workers, their supervisors and managers,
and small- and medium-scale enterpreneurs.
44.       The project would include:
(a) construction, equipping, and furnishing of three industrial
training centers and ten mobile training units, with a total
capacity of 1,140 trainee places. A total of about 5,600
workers would be trained annually. A detailed survey of
training needs would be carried out;



- 14 -
(b) construction, equipping and furnishing of facilities for
training management and supervisory personnel and small- and
medium-scale entrepreneurs, with a total capacity of 160 trainee
places. A total of 420 supervisory personnel and entrepreneurs
would be trained annually;
(c) construction, equipping, and furnishing of nine new agricultural
training centers including facilities for a national center and
eight regional centers with a total capacity of 360 trainee
places.  The national center would train a total of about 250
agricultural professionals and technicians annually. Through
short courses, the regional centers would train a total of
between 9,600 and 12,000 small- and medium-size farmers and
other agricultural workers; and
(d) technical assistance to the Government for project implementation
and evaluation, for initiating new training programs, and for
strengthening the institutional framework for national vocational
training.
Detailed Features
45.       Agricultural Training:  A national agricultural training center would
be established which would offer courses for a total of 250 agricultural pro-
fessionals and technicians annually, a target which is based on estimates of
staff requirements for public and autonomous agricultural institutions by 1982.
Selection of trainees would be made by each individual institution in coordi-
nation with CENCAP. Courses would address the training needs of personnel
already employed and those newly recruited, with emphasis on the latter; the
duration of the courses would vary depending on the topic, but most courses
would last from two to eight weeks. The teaching staff would be visiting
instructors drawn from the top staff of various public institutions. Periodic
evaluation of the training program would be made by the Planning and Evaluation
Unit of CENCAP.  The Government has agreed to initiate a monitoring and evalua-
tion system by September 30, 1978 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(a)).
46.       The project would also include establishment of eight new regional
training centers located across the country (see map) with a classroom and one
simple multipurpose workshop for carpentry, electrical, metal and home economics
work, two staff houses, boarding and transportation facilities. Through short
courses the regional centers together would train annually between 9,600 and
12,000 small and medium-size farmers, farm leaders, cooperative promoters,
auxiliary agents of the extension and agrarian transformation agencies, and
rural women. Particular emphasis would be given to the transfer of new agri-
cultural technology on intensive land utilization and cultivation of basic
grains, which the National Center of Agriculture and Livestock Technology
(CENTA) has developed with AID assistance. In addition to agricultural train-
ing, courses would include such subjects as nutrition, health, family planning
and home improvement. All the courses would eventually be complemented by mass
communication media (principally radio) which would be developed with the



- 15 -
technical assistance providled under the project. In addition, the centers would
also provide field training for senior students of the ENA and would become focal
points for farmers' meetings and for exchanging information on development activi-
ties in the areas to be served. Although each center would be provided with two
permanent staff members, a director and an assistant, a large part of the train-
ing would be conducted by visiting instructors drawn from other public agencies,
particularly CENTA, at the central and regional levels. Staff would receive
pedagogical courses organized by CENCAP before they assume training responsi-
bilities, and periodic retraining thereafter.
47.       A coordinating committee has been established within the Ministry of
Agriculture, comprising representatives of key public institutions involved in
agricultural education and training, to ensure adequate coordination and support
of other institutions in p]Lanning CENCAP's activities, selecting trainees,
providing instructors, developing curricula and evaluating training programs.
48.       Industrial TrainiLng:  Three industrial training centers would be
constructed in the three largest cities, San Salvador, Santa Ana and San Miguel.
These centers would also serve as the base of operations for the mobile train-
ing activities. These programs together would train about 5,600 workers, and
although the emphasis would be on upgrading employed workers, the programs
would also help train new entrants to the labor force. Training would be
provided in 33 occupations in the construction, mechanical, electrical and
textile industries, and in industrial sewing, partially to fill a projected
manpower gap of 15,000 industrial workers per annum. (The balance of the gap
is expected to be filled to some extent through technical and vocational
formal education programs, but mostly by informal learning on the job.)
49.       In order to provide flexibility in meeting the training needs of
different target groups, tlhe three industrial training centers would each
offer the following three modes of training: (1) apprenticeship training
would be broad in scope and would consist of four-hour morning sessions
thus allowing apprentices (generally younger workers) the opportunity of
working in the afternoons. The program would utilize four 12-week modules in
a cluster of related occupations. (For example, construction apprentices
would take four modules--one each in bricklaying, carpentry, plumbing and
concrete work); (2) upgrading training would provide specialized training for
mainly semi-skilled and skilled industrial workers (but also unskilled workers
seeking to learn a specific skill) with two-hour evening sessions four times a
week for 24 weeks; and (3) accelerated training, which is designed to reduce
the training period of job seekers, would consist of full eight-hour daily
sessions for a duration of 24 weeks or four-hour afternoon sessions for a
duration of 24 weeks.
50.       An in-plant training division would be established in the Manpower
Department of the Ministry of Labor. An advisory service would be established
in this division which would help enterprises diagnose training needs and
implement on-the-job training programs for both contracted apprentices and
employees requiring skill upgrading. To prepare enterprises for carrying out
such programs, and in collaboration with CENAP, supervisors and foremen would
receive training in instruction techniques, industrial relations, accident



- 16 -
prevention, etc. In addition, a skill upgrading program would be carried
out in plant using mobile training units provided under the project. The
Government has agreed that the in-plant training unit of the Manpower Depart-
ment would be established by June 30, 1979.
51.       Courses and occupations for the various training programs have been
selected on the basis of the national manpower data available from the 1971
Population Census, annual surveys, and discussions with employers' and
workers' organizations. In order to refine the national data into regional
or community-based data classified by industry and occupations, a detailed
survey of training needs would be conducted annually by the Ministry of Labor
the first such survey being carried out as part of the project. On the basis
of the survey results, the tentative training occupations would be further
refined, and syllabi, workbooks and teaching manuals prepared on the basis of
detailed occupational analysis, for which technical assistance would be pro-
vided. Flexibility of the training courses would be ensured through the use
of short, self-contained, but inter-connected training modules, which would
permit trainees to leave a course at the end of each module, and return to
the next module later in their career for further training according to their
needs.
52.       Applicants for training courses would be at least 16 years old and
would need to pass aptitude tests. Although completion of primary education
would be the minimum requirement, most applicants are expected to have a
higher formal education. Because of the prevailing high unemployment (and
underemployment) and the demand for trained workers, the number of applicants
are expected to outnumber the places available for training. Drop-out rates
are expected to be low because of the relatively short length of the courses
being offered, time available for work during training, competition for
admission, and systematic selection process. No fees would be charged to
the trainees.
53.       In order to operate the three training centers and 10 mobile units,
the project would require a total of 47 instructors and 22 non-teaching staff.
Instructor trainees would be recruited from among supervisors who have
acquired sufficient skill and proficiency in addition to formal education,
preferably in technical secondary education. They would be trained mainly
in instructional techniques, course organization and evaluation methods in
the instructor training unit which would be established under the project
in the San Salvador Center. The Government has agreed to provide instructors
with terms and conditions of work adequate to attract and maintain qualified
personnel and determined on the basis of annual studies to be made by the
Technical Committee (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03(b)).  (Recurrent expenditures,
when the project is fully operational, are discussed in paragraph 62 below.)
54.       The project would require the Ministry of Labor to L organize the
administrative and technical structure of the existing Manpower Department.
Under the project, the present staff of 34 would increase to an estimated
56 professionals who would operate a new planning and evaluation division and
a new operations division. The Government has agreed to create these two
divisions by June 30, 1979 ( Loan Agreement, Section 3.07(a)).



- 17 -
55.       Under the project the Government would develop a trade testing
system on the basis of tra:ining standards to be established by the Ministry of
Labor for recognized skilled occupations. Upon the successful completion of
the prescribed tests, participants would be awarded certificates indicating
the level of their skills. The Government has agreed that it would introduce
by June 30, 1980, the aforementioned standards, testing and certification
system (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08(i)).
56.       Vocational guidance and counselling services would be provided to
trainees, and placement of trainees would be further facilitated by the
services of placement officers of the training centers who would work closely
with the employment services network of the Ministry of Labor and with indus-
trial enterprises. The Government has agreed that the system of guidance and
placement would be established by June 30, 1980 (Loan Agreement, Section
3.08(ii)).
57.       Close relations between industry and the training centers would be
ensured at the regional level through the liaison work of the placement officers
and the establishment of advisory committees which would include representatives
of local enterprises and workers, and public agencies and discuss curricula,
methods of training, selection of trainees and other matters related to the
operation of the training centers. At the central level, the National Vocational
Training Council would take into account the opinions of employers and workers
and ensure coordination among public agencies involved in vocational training,
when introducing new training programs and implementing existing ones.
58.       Training of Supervisory Personnel and Small- and Medium-Scale
Entrepreneurs: The project would provide four classrooms each with a capacity
of 20 trainees and one multi-purpose room with 80 trainee places to be used by
the National Productivity Center (CENAP) for training mid-management and
supervisory personnel and for an integrated training and consultancy program
directed to small- and medium-scale entrepreneurs. Although facilities would
be located in the San Salvador industrial training center, CENAP would also
operate courses outside San Salvador, utilizing the other two industrial
training centers. The Government has agreed that the training centers would
share with CENAP their facilities and instructors (Loan Agreement, Section
3.09).
59.       Courses for supervisors and mid-managers would be organized by indus-
trial branches and cover iLndustrial engineering, industrial maintenance and
administration. A teaching staff of six instructors would train a maximum of
240 supervisors and mid-managers per annum. The courses for small- and
medium-scale entrepreneurs would include training, consulting, and problem
solving programs, relying as far as possible on the groups' own resources, but
with assistance of instructors. Problem identification and candidate selection
would result from preliminary visits made by instructors to enterprises in the
same industrial branch, followed by in-depth visits to analyze common problems
and develop courses. At two weekly meetings over six months, problems would
be discussed and suggestions made. The enterpreneurs would be motivated to
build a problem-solving ciapability by being made to work on real cases.
Through follow-up visits instructors would assist in implementing solutions;
thus a management consulting job would have been done. With three instructors,



- 18 -
about 180 entrepreneurs would benefit annually. Since the program is an
innovative pilot effort, the Government has agreed that CENAP would evaluate
annually the training programs for supervisors and small- and medium-scale
entrepreneurs in consultation with employers' organizations (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05(b)).
60.       Technical Assistance:  Technical assistance for the implementation
of the project has been designed in consultation with other bilateral and
multilateral agencies, and, as most of the training programs involved are
largely new in El Salvador, is rather extensive in scope. It would assist the
Government in initiating training programs and strengthening institutional
organization and management. It comprises (a) 7 man-years of specialist
services and 5.8 man-years of fellowships to assist in planning, operation and
evaluation of agricultural and rural training programs; (b) about 13 man-years
of specialist services and 8.6 man-years of fellowships to assist in planning
and organization, testing and certification, instructor training, and voca-
tional guidance for industrial training programs; (c) 5 man-years of specialist
services and one man-year of fellowships to assist in the operation of super-
visory and management training courses; and (d) one man-year of specialist
services to assist the project unit (discussed in paragraph 63 below) in
physical planning of the project institutions. The cost of the program is
estimated to average US$55,000 per man-year of specialist services and
US$15,000 per man-year of fellowships. The Government has agreed to hire key
specialists by December 31, 1978 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(c)).
Cost and Financing
61.       The total project cost is estimated at the equivalent of US$12.7 mil-
lion, including contingencies of US$3.3 million (of which US$2.4 million is
price contingencies). A breakdown of costs by project component is contained
in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report. The proposed
US$9.0 million Bank loan would finance 71 percent of project costs and would
cover the foreign exchange costs of US$6.7 million and local costs of the
equivalent of US$2.3 million. Local currency financing is justified for the
reasons stated in paragraph 19 above. The balance of the financing for the
project would be provided by the Government.
62.       By 1982, when the project is expected to be fully operational
recurrent expenditures generated by the project are expected to reach US$1.8
million equivalent (1976 prices). Though requiring an increase of 38 percent
in the Ministry of Labor's recurrent budget (from 1976 levels), the US$1.8
million represents less than 1 percent of the overall recurrent budget of the
Government in 1976 and should not present a problem. In any event, the Govern-
ment has agreed to take all necessary measures to make funds available for
the maintenance of project facilities and efficient operation of the training
program (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 and 4.05).
Project Implementation
63.       A project unit would be established in the Ministry of Labor to
administer project implementation. The Minister would appoint a project unit
director, who would be responsible for the implementation of the industrial



- 19 -
and management training components. The project director would also coordinate
with officials of other Ministries, particularly a sub-unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture which would directly implement the agricultural training components.
The project unit director would be assisted by a full-time project staff com-
prising an administrator/accountant, an architect or engineer, a vocational
training specialist, and a procurement specialist. The project unit director
would also coordinate with the National Vocational Training Council's Technical
Committee, which would oversee implementation of the educational aspects of
the project and would be responsible for the review and preparation of recom-
mendations to the Council for resolution of policy issue affecting project
implementation which might arise from time to time. Appointment of the project
unit director, accountant and architect or engineer, in consultation with the
Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.011.
64.       To assist the Government in the effective and timely execution of
the project, an implementation schedule has been prepared. The Government has
agreed that the project unit would develop a more detailed implementation
schedule, to be sent to the Bank for review by December 31, 1978, and would
update it as needed (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
65.       Architectural design work on the agricultural training components
would be prepared by the sub-unit staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, and
the remainder by consultant firms contracted on terms and conditions accep-
table to the Bank. The Government has agreed that project unit staff and the
Technical Committee members--supported as necessary by other technical staff
of each Ministry--would review the architectural designs and equipment and
furniture lists before submitting them to the Bank; they would certify that
they meet the economic and functional standards and the educational objectives
of the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). The Government has also agreed
that the project unit would obtain the services of a physical planning special-
ist by December 31, 1978 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a)).
66.       Sites have been identified for the agricultural training institu-
tions, and no particular difficulties are expected in obtaining sites for
the industrial and management training institutions, except for the training
center in San Salvador where land acquisition has been difficult in the past.
The Government has agreed that by December 31, 1978, it will acquire at least
an option to purchase sites for the three industrial training centers, in
accordance with criteria aLcceptable to the Bank, and that it will complete
acquisition of the sites by June 30, 1979 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.10(a)).
67.       For proper and effective maintenance and operation of the project
facilities, the project unit would prepare a maintenance handbook and
establish adequate procedures for maintenance.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.       Contracts for furniture and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
However, furniture and equipment that cannot be grouped into packages of at
least US$50,000 would be procured through local bidding procedures acceptable



- 20 -
to the Bank. Procurement under these latter procedures would not, in aggre-
gate, exceed US$300,000 equivalent (corresponding to about 10 percent of the
estimated total cost of furniture and equipment). In accordance with the
Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives for Industrial Development,
suppliers from the Central American Common Market (CACM) countries would
receive a preferential margin in bid evaluation equal to 15 percent of
the c.i.f. cost of imports, or 50 percent of the tariff payable by non-CACM
manufacturers, whichever is lower. Contracts for civil works (estimated
to total US$6.2 million) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
The civil works are of small size and are scattered throughout the country,
and El Salvador has a competitive local construction industry. Therefore,
foreign contractors are not expected to participate in the bidding, although
they would not be precluded from doing so. Prequalification will take place
to assess the capability of contractors.
69.       The loan would be disbursed over a four year period.  Disbursement
would be made for 50 percent of the total expenditure for civil works and
professional services; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for imported, or
90 percent of the cost of locally procured, equipment and furniture; and
100 percent of expenditure for project unit salaries, training needs survey
and technical assistance.
Project Benefits and Risks
70.       The major benefits of the project would be improvement in workers
productivity and the provision of a portion of the trained manpower needed for
the agricultural sector and the industrial diversification of the Salvadorian
economy. In addition, the project would increase employment and earnings of
the poorer segment of the population, thereby contributing to the equitable
distribution of benefits accruing from economic development. In the indus-
trial sector, some 5,600 skilled, unskilled, employed and unemployed workers
would benefit annually. In addition some 240 supervisors and mid-management
personnel and about 180 small- and medium-scale entrepreneurs would benefit
from the managerial training programs each year. In the agricultural sector,
some 9,600-12,000 farmers and rural workers and 250 agricultural technicians
and professionals would benefit annually.
71.       The establishment of an inter-agency National Vocational Training
Council and its full-time Technical Committee reduces the risk of lack of
coordination between the various training institutions and other public agencies
dealing with agricultural and industrial development. The extensive technical
assistance program under the project should compensate for the shortage of
qualified training staff in El Salvador.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of El Salvador and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness would be the appointment,
in consultation with the Bank, of the project unit director, accountant and
architect or engineer.
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 26, 1978






TABLE 3A                                                MNEX I
EL SALVADOR          - SCCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                             Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  -----------------------
---------------                                 EL SALVADOR                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL        21.0                                         MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       13.4                        1960       197(   ESTIMATE            GUATEMALA      PANAMA          COSTA RICA***
 ------------------ _                                 --   - _        ------------
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      180.0*    300.0*    490.0 *               360.0*       830.0*      580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)              2.4        3.4        4.1                 5.4          1.4         1.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        114.C     162.0      195.0                50.0         19.0         34.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        190.0      273.0      305.0               119.0         85.0         93.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           48.5       46.1       42.2                45.1        39.8         41.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)            20.1       14.3       11.1                16.8          8.7         8.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)            ., ..                ..                87.1        41.0         62.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         58.5      65.0          ..                51.1        64.9         66.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                        ..             30                  3.1          2.8         2.8
POPLLATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                   2.7        3.5**      3,1                 3.2          3.1         3.4
URBAN                                   3.3        3.7        3.4                 3.2 /a       4.3         5.2/a
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            38.5       39.0       39.4                 33.8        47.6        36.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        44.B        47.5       46.1                45.4        43.7        47.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                         52.D       49.4       50.4                51.7        52.3         49.3
65 YEARS AND OVER                       3.2        3.1        3.5                 2.9          3.5         3.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.9        1.0        1.0                 0 9          0.9         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.7         .,        1.6La               1.6  b       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..         ..       97.0/b              41.3           ..        40.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..         .,       20 .0b                 . b
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            E10.0         ..    1130.0               1600.0       500.0/a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)           60.0         ..       55.0                61.0         38.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             5.0         ..       10.0                   ..         7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ,.         ..       39.0 c                35   C   22.2/b        22,8
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         ,.       67.0 C                6Q.       49C          50.6
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ,.2 ..                .0                   5.0       4- &L       5.4
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         ..        7.                   13.O7     131. 8j     14.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             80.5                  78.0 /b             79.0         45.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            0.3          .,       0.4 l               0,4          1.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               4630.0/a b3920.0    3970.01d                   ..     1550.0       1630.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          1400.  =aC 930.0/a  86u.07.,e            1260.0 Id  1420.0C   1690.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                .       500.0                          470.0       360.0/       250:0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)           82.0       79.0       84.0                92.0       109.0        110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                           43.0                                       61.0         63.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                      10.0                           19.0        31.0         35.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              17.5       11.1        7.1                24.4          7.5         4.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        80.0       81.5        75.2Lf              58.0       103.0        110.0
SECONOARY SCHOOL                       11.0      16 .6       20.4Lf              11.0         40.0        28.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PRDVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               11.0       12.0       12.0                12.0        12.0         11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                       30.0       31.0       58.o/d              15.0        32.0         10.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  51.0/d    60.0        63.0 .Oa                         82o/dv
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                   ..        3.8                                         1.8
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                          ..      74.0        68.0                   ,,       74.0/e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                     ..      34.0        44.7                  ,.        52.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                       ..        7.0       14.4                             16.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           85.0       85.0                           430         157.0        72.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             E.l0      14.0                       157.0                        72.0
ELECTRICITY  (KWH/YR PER CAP)            95. 0     190.0      267.0                146.0       585.0       594.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                 1.9        3.7        2.9                 1.6          4.0         6.4
-----------------------------S---_______ OTES---------------------------------- AND_______  -EF------- ON REVE
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEXI
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unlees otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 17  between 1969 and 1971, god for Most Recen t Eatimate between
1973 and 1976.
GNPo per capit. date are based on the World Nank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basie).
00 Duo to repatriation of Saivadoreao   fr-e Nondurse population groeth rate is higher than rate of _atoral increase.
...  Conta Ricoh. beehoa elooted Ceas   objective coutry for El Saivedor baoa...e both  -ootrias ar  smal, op.en-oooi.e dependent on aeric-itural
onporte and both have epenial trade relationships with other Cantral Aerinan countries, y'et the Per caPita incom of Costs Nice is .ubatentially
higber than that of El Salv-dor,  Costa gins h.s achieved a very good rate of econmaic groat, which a...orig a ,.-h higher then  average degree of
equity.
EL SALVADOR.    1960    /a  1963;    lb  Physiciana hospitals only;    Ic  Including .aais tant nurSes;    /d  10 years andovr
1970    Ia  Including aesistant nursee..
MOlT REfCT ESTIMATE,  Is  Ratio of population under 15 and 61 and over to total labor forne;  /b  1977;  Ic Ae Perndastag   of osmn in fertile
gStgoup;    I4  Incoe reniplanta, Sen Salvador only;    /e  1972;,    /f  Including traditional birth
ettndnt               J.~   Le10nision estimate, beginnin,  1971, tha duration of g-nre1 eseondory edoc..ai-o a
reduce.d free 6 to 3yse,bl  primary  duostion. was enteoded by three years.  Thereforo, tin  1975 figures
are not comparable to 1960 end 1970;    /h  Coverast estimate.
ODATEMALA        1970    Ia  1964-70;    lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    Ic-  Partial survy of urban areas
only;    Id  Including sassistant narasa.
PANAMOA          1970    I   Including residents working in Canal cone;    /k  brones recipients;    Ic  Gv-raesent hospital eatebliob,onts only;
Id  10 yeare and over;    /e  maids only.
COlTo RICA       1970    Ia1963-60.
R7, April 16, 1976
DEPIINTOU OP iSOC  IA DITICAT0S
Land Area Ichon In3Poulatlo  met -uraing earson - Population dIvided by numbr of practicino
Total -Total ecrice area coaprieleg land area sod inland wats.rmlean  femals grduate  urses , 'trained' or 'certified'  -rauna, and
Agri.  M-Net reat estimate of agricultural area asd temporarily or pem-                        aoile   aena   ith tanIgo  eoperint..
ncyfor crps, pastures,  -arbt 6, bitches gerdana, or to ILe felIne.                    Population ear h-veital bad - Population divided by n-ebsr of hospital bade
available in public and privata a.neral and soscialised hospital end
ipo er coaths ;il) - GNP per capita estimates stoortet  arhet pric-,                           rehbilitation ocotere;  eclada nursing h-m. aod establishe..ete  for
cacltdby saeo c-nvraon method as world Bank Atlas (1973-76 heels);                       uatodie1 sod preventive tars.
1960; 1970 sod 1976  ae                                                                    Par ..eems -uoly of clrs ftof rure stl-Ceeputed free enrgy
equivalent of met food sopplias available in contry per tapirs per day;
ponulation and vital statistic:                                        ava~~~-ilable eappliee comprias domaatio production, mports less  -eport., snd
rorwacin  (ad-yar mllin) -Aa  f Jnly first:  if not available, aversa                 thansa in atock; nat supplies... solde animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two sod-year estimates; 1-160, 1970 end 1976 data,                                        in food proesing and leases is distribution; reqnirnta  wer  estimated
by PAl based en physiological osada f or -o-Ia activity and health conaid-
polatio  density - rcneur   n- Mid-year pepulaton per square kiles,tar                       ariog anironesntal temperature, body weights, age and see distributions of
(110 hetro   fctiae,pplto,ed alb1ming 10% fur eases at h.-.shold level.
Poocatin deeit  - pr suar  hen of ric. Lan~d - compted as above for                  Per caitrla sos          of rolin  frae   ear day) - Protein content of per capita
a0,cLcuc-1 laud oly,                                                                          e  spply off food Per day: eat suPply of food ia dafined as shav; reqoir-
meets for all coatries established by IJSDA iconomic Rtaeaoh S.i-rie
Vital statistics                                                                                provide fur a minim   allomnet  of 60 gram  of total protein per day, and
Crudo birth raco per tbouaaad. avarac  - Annua  Iv IL hirth. per th-anasd of                    20 grossa of animal and pulac protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
mId-year poplation; ten-year arithasatlo avr.aga ending in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; these standards are 1mmr than those of 75 grea of coral protin
sod fivo-year averago ending in 1975 for anst resent satiate,                                 sod 23 gram  of amima1 proteio a         - aavvge fur the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death race Pre  thousan.  -v-a   - Ao-oal dootba per thonosod of mid-year                in the Third World Pond lurvy.
population; cen-year aritiastic eeragee endi.g in 1960 aod 1970 and fIve-                  Per ceeita erotelm  auely freanml-  and mul.. - Protein aupply of food
yaavrage ending io 1973 for most r-cet ae timate.                                        derive  freaiased pulses in grema per day.                   -
Tnfast mortality rats  /a)-Ana   etb   fifnsadr  n   ero  g                                    eth rare f/thou) aces 14-on-I deaths per thoussmd in age group I-
per thousAnd live birtha.                                                                    years, to children in this age group; suggested as an Lodicetor of
Life eeetaav at birhfr             A-SAerg  n,eber of years of life remining at                 malnutrition.
b,irth;  aal  iv-ervraoea ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for davee1
fog c,tciasu.                                                                              Education
Gros  rerdctioc rac   -Avrage naehr of ILiv  daughters a woan will bear                       Adjuated.enollmet ratio - Drimr  school - Enrollment of  1l sgse as per-
in he  noe rpoutive Period if sh   eelae    rsn   g-pcfic                                   cetge of pein,ary school-age population; is1udes children aged 6-11 years
fertility ra toe; .Uually fiv-ye  ar--ega ending in 1960, 1970 and 1973                       but aduted for different langth. of primary  ducatiom; for  -tnnriee with
for davolopiug   -turie.                                                                     universal education, enrollment may encad 100% sian  .-  pupils are beov
Population  -r,he rare it; -total - tcmpo,d annual groth rates of mid-year                      or abr  the officialscoo  ae
pouato   for  ) 95-61, 1960-70 sod 1970-73.                                           Adjusted anrollieet rai      ecnayshool - Computed as abov; escoodery
Ppumlation  rooth rare it) - urban - Ceeputd lim growth rate of total                           edoction requires at lsa..t four years of approved priary teacructmon;
Population; dfferent dfinItio"' of urban areas may affect comparability of                    provides general, voctional or taa..her training iea rruntios   for pupils
data amon  cS  atries.                                                                        of 12 to 17 years of age; nerependenecoamar   eeal   aloded.
tirban e-letion (t of_total  - Ratio of urban to totalfpopulation; different                  Tea.rs of -choollmm or-idd ifiret amd ascend level) - Total years of
definitions of urban area  may  ffeot comparability of data amon   ootria.                    schooling; at seondary leve, vocational instruction may be partially or
Asnetc:cturo, monr,te     - Children (0-14 year), workig-ege (13-64 years),                   Voctionalenrllm=     t f of  econdrev; - cocarioeal institutIons  include
sdrtrd(1yassod              ovrta   eotgr    fmd-erPoplto.                                    tenhnital,  ndoseria1 or other program   which operate independently or a,
Ago doopodency rati  - Rtio of population ooder 13 and 65 end ovr to those                      depertoant  of secondary institutia-a
of  Igo  1  throgh 6.Adult litarsoy rat       Linsedolts (ahs to red and write; as Par-
icon..i  do.dency ratic - Ratio of population onder 11 and 63 and ovr to                          cg  o oa  adult poplation aged 15 years endons
the labor force i.ncage groupo.f 13-64 years.                                                                                                                                                         .
Family pIaoiog0-socetor  (c.ooltlv   thon) - Cumultion nmbar of acce ptors                    H.oosIng
of birth-control device  ender ..uspiceo of national family planning progra                 Per-n  er room  furban) - Average o,asbec of person  per roo  in occupied
since inception.                                                                             covetional dwellings in urban or...o; duelliocs eon lode non-peemanen
tonit oanona  :care  I4 of mrried e o         f-Pnr-aSee  of macind   -n  of               acruttotl sd on"cpiad Parts.
rhil-beriogage(15-_4 yers)whuo  birth-control device  to all mariad                    DecuoLed dlins withoot epsed ester I;- Oncu.pied covninldwlliogs
woe nsn ge  Lrupai orben and rural areas without isoide or ruts ide piped valet facilities
aspretage  f al   ofcpa  dwelings
onoloyment                                                   Access  to eleotriciry IX of all dwellings)11  -Conoetional dweiiga with
ttllbrforce (th-oonnd) - icoonomiclly active Peraon, including ared                       electricity in living quarters as Percent of total dwellings in orban and
forces and nepoe   u   nld    bouaeesves, students, etc.; defeitions                          rural areas.
in  ariou  co_npries are ntcoparable.                                                     iural delnsoneedto eleotritity  t;-Cosmpted as shav  for -rura
Labor forceL  gnar ioltoro  It) - AgricuIturel Labor force (io fasming, forestry,               dwellings only
hunting and fishing ) as percentage of total laber force.
Unemploysd  It of Labor fare; - Unemplyed areually defined apeenwh                            Cmaotion
are  beb  sod wiig to takea Job,Pu  ofaJub on a given day, remained  ut Rd ioreniee    e   hen e-P) - All types of receiver  for radio broadcas.ts
of a Job, and see king work for a specified minimau period not seceeding one                  to general public per thousand of population; secldes omlicened rece.ivers
week; may not he comparable betwee  cantries due to different definitions                     in coutries and in years when reglacration of radio seats wasin effect.;
of  noplyed end source ofdata, e.g.,employmen t office statintic, samPle                      data fan recen.t years, my not ha comparable  ielo  most countries aholihed
suvy,compulsory unemploymet tosurance.                                                   licesing.
P-seat  asfotto  eon) - Passenger cars comprise motor oar  seating
In.-  dietributloc - Percentage of private inoom  (both t  cas  an d kind)                      le:ss than eigh,t persona;  -cldas ambulanra, hearses sod military
received by richeat 5t. richest 201, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of bones-                   vehicle..
holds.                                                                                      EJettrIicity  fkwh/rge 'aP) - Annual cona,,nptien of industrial,   --erial,
puhlfo an rvt  'lantrfiefy in kilwatt boors per capita, generally
Diatribucion of land  -.nrsbip - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest lOt                    ba..ed on production data, wihou  alownc  for losses in grids but ollo--
and Pooret 10%. of land oonr.-                                                                ing for imors  n  eapotso~f electatricity.
N-weiot ibm/ye on  ...e  - Per napita a.-ual cenuption in kilogram
Health a.d Nutriti_                                                                              estimated from dometic production plcs net imports of newprint.
Population  er phy.icia  - Popnlstion divided by n,=br of practicing
physicians quaified from a eedicl school at university level.



EL SALVADOR
ECONOMIC LEVELOPENT DATA
(In million of US dollars)                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
A c t u a  I                                 Average  Annual
i_____________  _Pro ection           Growth Rate           As percentag f o:GDY
1970      1975         1976         1985          1970-75   1975-55    1970      1975     1976      1905
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                   Amounts in 1967-69 prices and exchange rate
Gross domestic product                977.8    1,261.3      1,320.7       2,116.7           5.2       5.3      97.5      98.2     92.5     97.1
Gains from the terTeof trade         25.1        22.7       106.7          62.8            -         -        2.5       1.8      7.5      2.9
Gross domestic income             1,002.9    1,284.0      1,427.4       2,179.5           5.1       5.4     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Imports                               2L3.7       383.8      1438.9         700.8           9.5       6.2      24.3      29.9     30.7     32.2
Exports (import capacity)             246.8       321.6       428.0         632.9           5.4       7.0      24.6      25.1     30.0      29.0
Resource gap                            -3.1       62.2         10.9         67.9            -         -        -0.3      4.8      0.8       3.1
Consumption                           863.0    1,094.9      1,172.9       1,790.1          4.9        5.0      86.1      85.3     82.2      82.1
Investsent                            136.8       251.3       265.4         457.3         12.9        6.2      13.6      19.6     18.6      21.0
Domsstic Savings                      139.9       189.1       254.5         389.4           6.2       7.5      13.9      14.7     17.8     17.9
National savings                      145.1       188.1       261.4         377.0           5.3       7.2      14.5      14.6     18.3     17.3
NMERCHANDISE TRADE
Imports                                 Annual data  a t  current prices                                             As percent of total
Capital goods                        37.8       153.7       184.8         526.3         32.4       13.1      17.6      25.7     25.0     25.9
PetroleuTa, oil, lubricants           4.8        46.1        50.2         148.8         57.2       12.4       2.2       7.7      6.8      7.3
Other irtermediates                 100.5       253.1       327.8         942.3         20.3       14.o      47.0     42.2      44.2     4624
Consumption goods                    71.1       1145.8      177.8         415.0         15.4       11.0      33.2      24.4     24.0     20.4
Total meschandise imports (cif)    21.4.2       598.7       740.6       2,032.4         22.8       13.0     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
Primary products                    181.6       371.8       535.6       1,003.4         15.4       10.4      70.9      69.7     71.8      55.5
Manufactured goods                   74.6       161.8       210.7         803.8          16.7      17.4      29.1      30.3     28.2     44.5
Total merchandise exports (fob)    256.2        533.6       746.3       1,807.2         15.8       13.0     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
1967-69 = 100
Merchandise trade indi ceF
Export price index                  317.1       200.4       265.8         358.9          11.3       6.o        -         -       -
Import price index                  104.2       18L4.7      193.3         341.0         12.1        6.3       -
Terms of trade index                112.4       108. 5      137.5         105.2           -          -        -
Export volume index                  97.3       126.14      138.2         226.8           5.4       6.o       -
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                    Annual data at 1967-69 prices
Agricultuire                         265.0       321.6       313.2         478.3          4.0        4.0      27.1      25.5     23.7      22.6
Industry                             216.1       291.4       312.8         520.7           6.2       6.o      22.1      23.1     23.7      24.6
Services                             1496.7      648.3       694.7       1,117.7           5.5       5.6      50.8      51.4     52.6      52.8
Total                              977.8    1,261.3      1,320.7       2,116.7           5.2       5.3     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                           Annual data at 1967-69 prices                                            As percent of GDP
(Central Goverresert)
Current receipts 1ne207.6                       153.8        197.7         347.7          7.14       8.5      11.0     12.2      15.0     16.4
Current expenditures                  92.9       127.35      1142.7        250.14          6.5       7.0       95       1.        08       1.
Budgetary savings        1        1       ;       5.7               97.3                 U          13.9   5                    1i. 2 8
Other public sector                   16.6        18.9        17.6          58.7           2.6      12.0       1.7      1.5       1.3       2.8
Public sector fixed inrvestenit       23.5        88.3       117.8         229.0          30.3      10.0       2.4       7.0      8.9      10.8
DETAIL ON PUBLIC FIXED INVESTMENT                1967-69 %rices               SELECTED INDICATORS         1965-73   1975-75    1975-85
~79    6Vto771                  ICOR                         3.11       r)- -70
Social sector                                   77.1       2                  Import elasticity            1.08       1.03        1.08
Agriculture                                     19.5        7.3               Aver. Nat. Sav. rate         0.13       0.14        0.17
Power                                           73.0       27.3               Marginal Nat. Sav. rate      0.10       0.47        0.21
Transport and telecommunications                59.4       22.2
Other                                           38.5       14.4
Total fixed investment                       2u7.7,      100.0
LABOR FOMCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKER                        labor Force                                   value added per worker (1967-69 prices)
In thousand,       % of tostal        961-71                In US 8            % of average        1961-71
1961  91~    ~ r--~7T   Gowthrate1961                          17              19            Growth ra-te
Agriculture                           E;2    622I         60 .2 Gt               r        a        39      TI197514.1           EI 1.
Manufacturing and construction        137.2    176.9      17.0      15.6       2.6                 823    1,311      113.5    145.3          4.8
Services                              183.7    332.6      22.8      29.3       6.1               1534    1 552       211.6    172.1          0.1
Tota                                517T0 .                                  T5                                     =       t5"-.



EL SALVADLE                                                       ANNEX 1
f~o Us4O 
BALANCE OF PAYENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(In million of US dollars at current prices)
A c t u a l                         Projected
1970        1973          1975        1976           1985
SU3MARY BALANCE OF PAYICNrS
Exports (including NFS)              257,0        399.3        59114         823.9         2167.1
IDorts (including IIFS)           253.8       439.6        686.1         844.8         2399.2
Resure    _e lnc          e       X4) -4-         0.3        -91.7         -20 .       I -Ty
Interest (net)                       -2.2         -5.5        -17.5          -2.4          -72.3
Direct investment income             -6.6         -9.5        -11.3         -11.7          -50.0
Workers remittance                      -            -           -             -
8urrent transfers (net)              1L.3         14.3         27.4          30.0           66.4
Balance on current account      1      7        :47:           T_7
3ri-ate direct investment             3.7          6.o         13.1          10.3           53.8
IPublic medium and long-term loans
Disbursements                        9.3         27.1         83.2         95.7           325.5
-Repa cents                         -5.9        -16.7        -47.5         -22.7          -56.9
Net 010 oroes3.0o        2     7 4        .o
Capital transactions n.e.i.           -0.8          4.4         92.5          -1.8
Change in reserves (-increase)       -15.0         20.2        -8.2         -76.5          -34.4
iLAN  4MITMENTS I/                                                                                    DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE           1970    1973    1978        1976
Medium and long-term  loans                                                                            Public debt outs. & dieb.       87.7    113.3  204.2    272.3
IBD                                   -          27.3           -          39.0                      (end of year)
IDA                                   _-                        -             -                     I.terest on public debt          3.5       4.5     7.4      12.2
IDB                                   -          6.6          35.6          15.0                    Repayment on psblic debt         5.9      16.7   47.5       22.7
CABEI                               4.6          10.7         15.0          15.4                    Total public debt service         9.4      21.2   54.9       35.0
Goverrmneots                         6.7          6.5         11.2          20.8
Suppliers                             -            -            -             -                     Burden  on exp-ets (%)
Private banks                       1.1           0.8         47.0            -
Bonds                                 -            -            -             -                     Public debt service              3.7        5.3    9.2 -2   4.2
Loans n.e.i.                          -            -            -             -                     DS & investment incosme          6.2       7.7   11.2        5.7
Total mdifu  and long-tarn loans    M9 C        59.2
Debt                                            Average terns on:
EXTERNAL PUBLIC LEBT                       Outstanding as of Dec. 31,1976                             Iot, as % prier yea DO & B       h1        4.1     4.1        6.o
Dlisbursed Only     Perent                                 Amort. as S prior year DO & D   6.8       15.3   26.1       11.1
IBED                                              P            lb.O
IDA                                            18.1             6.6                                 IBND Debt outs&.& disb.         24.8      23.8   41.0       48.9
IDB                                            13.1              4.8                                IBED as S of public debt outs. 28.3       21.0   20.1       18.0
CABEI                                          25.5              9.4                                IBD as S of piblic debt serv. 37.9        19.4     7.8      13.2
Oovernm nts                                     92.7            34.o
Private bhaks                                   71.6            26.3                                IDA debt outs. & disb.           8.0      15.8   16.6        18.1
Bonds                                            2.4             0.9                                IDA as S public debt outs.       9.1      13.9    8.1        6.6
Total M and LT public debt                     z72 3          lO.O                                  IDA as S public debt service     0.6       1.1     0.5       o.6
Total M and LT public debt (including
undisbursed)                              462.0            169.7
1,/ Exclude loans repayable in local currency.
/ In 1975 the debt service ratio was unusually high as a consequence of prepaymnt of c-os ercial lans contracted in 1974.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EL SALVADOR
(exclus:Lve of exchange adjustment)
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                        --------US$ million--------
Credit                                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Number  Year  Borrower                    Purpose                Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Eleven fully disbursed loans and credits                         57.6  13.6
811     1972  ANTEL                       Communications          9.5     -        0.7
889     1973  COMISION DEL RIO LEMPA    Power                    27.3     -        1.3
1007    1974  Government                 Education               17.0     -       11.9
517     1974  Government                  Sites and Services        -   6.0        2.2
1050    1974  Government                  Sites and Services      2.5     -        2.5
1288    1976  COMISION DEL RIO LEMPA    Power                    30.0     -       27.8
1289T   1976  Government                  Power                   9.0     -        8.3
1465    1977  Government                  Urban Development       6.7     -        6.7
726     1977  Government                  Urban Development         -   6.0        5.7
159.6  25.6
Of which has been repaid                                 41.1   0.5      _
Total now outstanding                                   118.5  25.1
Amount sold                            5.1
of which has been repaid            3.9                 1.2     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                           117.3  25.1        -
Total undisbursed                                         59.2   7.9      67.1
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1978)
Amount in $ million
Year     Obligor                                       Loan    Equity    Total
1959     Industrias Textiles S.A.                      0.14                0.14
1969     Hoteles de Centro America, S.A.               0.60      0.33      0.93
Total                                    0.74     0.33       1.07
less sold, cancelled or repaid           0.36     0.10       0.49
Now held                                 0.35     0.23       0.61



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. 811   Second Telecommunications Project; US$9.5 Million Loan
of April 7, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been signed; goods are
being received at installation sites. All project works have
been completed, and are beginning to be placed in service. Due
to initial delays in procurement of equipment, however, project
execution took two years longer than estimated at the time of
apptaisal. About US$700,000, representing savings in foreign costs
of the project, remains undisbursed and will be used, with Bank
approval, for procurement of additional equipment for ANTEL's
expansion program.
Ln. 889   Sixth Power Project; US$27.3 Million Loan of April 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 10, 1973; Closing Date: April 30, 1978.
The project has been largely completed, the principal unfinished
item being the effluent discharge canal from the geothermal plant to
the Pacific, which is about three years behind schedule. Project
costs are now estimated at US$158.7 million, 62.5 percent above the
appraisal estimate, as a result of worldwide inflation and additional
costs for construction of the geothermal effluent discharge canal
arising mainly from the poor performance of local construction
contractors. GEL is borrowing US$10.3 million from the Venezuelan
Investment Fund (FIV) to help it meet the cost overruns of the first
geothermal unit and the Cerron Grande hydroelectric project.
Pending completion of the discharge canal to the Pacific, output
from the 30 MW geothermal plant at Ahuachapan has been restricted so
as not to exceed agreed upon limits of boron and arsenic in the
waters of the Paz River. A request for extension of the Closing
Date to permit disbursement of the remaining US$1.3 million is
under consideration.
Ln. 1007  Second Education Project, US$17.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: October 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The status of this project is discussed in paragraph 41 of this
report.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this context, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Ln. 1050  Sites and Services Project; US$6.0 Million Credit and US$2.5 Million
Loan of November 4, 1974; Effective Date: February 3, 1975;
Closing Dates: March 31, 1981 (Credit) and May 31, 1981 (Loan).
Three years have elapsed since inception of the project, and civil
works are complete in five of the eight sites. Units have been
built at costs which have permitted their sale at prices within the
reach of families; with incomes of the target group. Total unit
development costs for each site, including price escalation allow-
ances, have been within 6 percent of the anticipated cost. The
implementing agerncy, Fundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda
Minima (FSDVM), has increased its annual production capacity from
200 units in the early 1970s to about 1,500 units at present. The
completion of the community centers and markets (both the respon-
sibility of the Government's community development agency) has
lagged; however, an agreement has now been reached with the Government
that the facilitiLes would be completed with assistance from FSDVM.
The two major problems encountered under the project (land acquisi-
tion and water supply in San Salvador) have been resolved.
Ln. 1288  Seventh Power Project; US$30.0 Million Loan and US$9.0 Million Third
1289T  Window Loan of July 28, 1976; Effective Date:  October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Procurement of major generating equipment has been carried out
on schedule, while procurement of transmission system equipment is
about four months behind schedule. CEL's planning department has
been organized with full staffing of the department expected by
mid-1978. CEL's asset revaluation study has been completed. Terms
of reference for a study of the tariff structure have recently been
reviewed by the Bank. The geothermal studies are proceeding on
schedule.
Ln. 1465  Second Urban Development Project; US$6.0 Million Credit and
Cr. 724   US$6.7 Million Loan of July 28, 1977;  Effective Date:  December 20,
1977; Closing Dates: August 31, 1981 (Credit) and August 31,
1981 (Loan).
The credit and loan recently became effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Proiect Preparation
(i)  Identification                        October 1975
(ii)  Preparation                           May 1976
(b) Project Preparation Agencies
Ministry of Planning
Ministry of Labor
Ministry of Economy
Ministry of Agriculture
(with assistance by Bank/ UNESCO)
(c)  Appraisal Mission Departure:               May 17, 1976
(d)  Post-Appraisal Mission Departure:          January 30, 1978
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:                April 14, 1978
(f)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:                August 1978
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
1.   The Government has agreed that it would:
(i) prepare and submit to the Bank for comment by
December 31, 1979, studies for the establishment
and operation of a specialized national training
agency to carry out and coordinate all public
industrial training activities (paragraph 38);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii)  initiate by September 30, 1978, a monitoring and
evaluation system for CENCAP's training programs
(paragraph 45);
(iii)  establish by June 30, 1979, an in-plant training
advisory unit, a planning-evaluation division and
an operations division within the Manpower Department
of the Ministry of Labor (paragraphs 50 and 54);
(iv)  provide instructors for vocational training centers
and mobile training units with terms and conditions
of work adequate to attract and maintain qualified
personnel and determined on the basis of annual
studies to be made by the Technical Committee (paragraph
53);
(v)  establish by June 30, 1980, vocational training
standards, testing, and certification systems for
recognized skilled occupations and a system of
guidance and placement (paragraphs 55 and 56);
(vi)  ensure that the industrial training centers would
share their facilities and instructors with CENAP
(paragraph 58);
(vii)  cause CENAP to evaluate annually the supervisory and
small- and medium-scale entrepreneur training programs
in consultation with employers' organizations (para-
graph 59);
(viii)  cause the project unit and Technical Committee, supported
by the required technical personnel, to review the archi-
tectural designs, equipment, and furniture lists before
submitting them to the Bank, and employ the services
of a physical planning specialist and other key specialists
of the technical assistance program by December 31, 1978
(paragraphs 60 and 65); and
(ix)  acquire by December 31, 1978, at least an option to
purchase the. three sites for the industrial training
centers in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank
and complete the acquisition of the sites by June 30, 1979
(paragraph 66).
2.   A special condition of effectiveness would be the appointment,
in consultation with the Bank, of the project unit director,
accountant and architect or engineer (paragraph 63).






IBRD-12400R
MARCH 1978
.    y tN,                 v     -   \                     ,E     
> S 0D 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,4 4' , 
94                            f       
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LU4
&      ~ 
L- / W                                                      4 4JdZt
2.                      /                                                                             K   ,3*     
tf
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
~~~                  -   N                K~~~~~~~~~



