Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1339a-ES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
EL SALVADOR
April 21, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1, 1978)
Currency Unit = Colon (¢)
¢1            = US$0.40
¢1,000,000    = US$400,000
02.50         = US$1
02,500,000    = US$1,000,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)           = 10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2 = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) = 0.39 square miles   100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)          = 2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)              = 0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton  = 0.98 long ton
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BFA    - Agricultural Development Bank
CACM   - Central American Common Market
CENAP  - National Productivity Center
CENCAP - National System of Agricultural Training
CENTA  - National Center of Agriculture and Livestock Technology
ISTA   - Institute of Agrarian Transformation of El Salvador
ENA    - National School of Agriculture
ILO    - International Labor Organization
ITC    - In-service Training Center of CENCAP
RTC    - Rural Training Center of CENCAP
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO  - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
VTC    - Vocational Training Center
GOVERNMENT OF EL SALVADOR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EL SALVADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON AN
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND HUMAN RESOURCES
IMPLICATIONS    .       .........................................   1
Population and Labor Force ............................             1
Economic Development and Rural Living Standards    .......          2
Development Strategy ..................................             2
Manpower Requirements ...... ................                       3
II.   FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING .........................             4
Development Plans and Achievements ....................             4
Challenges for Future Development ...............                   5
Bank Role in Education and Training ...................             5
III.   NON-FORMAL TRAINING IN AGRICULTURE AND INDUSTRY    .......          6
Agricultural Institutions and Training System .........             6
Issues in Industrial Training .................                     8
IV.   PROJECT ...............................................            12
Objectives and Composition ............ ..        ..............   12
Agricultural Training ...............    ..     ................   12
Industrial Training ................    ..    .................    15
Training of Supervisors and Small and Medium Scale
Entrepreneurs ....................        ...................   18
Technical Assistance ...............    ..     .................   19
V.   COST AND FINANCING OF THE PROJECT .....................            21
Cost Estimates      .................... ....................      21
Financial Plan      .................... ....................      22
Recurrent Costs .......................................            23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
El Salvador in May/June 1976. The mission consisted of Messrs. K. Lee
(economist), R. Hemingway (technical educator), E. Vergara (architect),
C. Barber (vocational trainer, consultant) and T. Ramos Saco (agricultural
educator, UNESCO). Mr. C. Guthrie (management trainer, ILO), who visited
El Salvador in September 1976, also contributed to the report. A post-
appraisal mission visited El Salvador in February 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT ................. ......    24
Project Administration ..........    ......................    24
Implementation Schedule .............. .. ...............    24
Professional Services ..........................    24
Sites   .................................................    25
Construction    ..........................................    25
Procurement    ...........................................    26
Maintenance ....................... ....................    26
Disbursement    ..........................................    26
VII.   BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES .....................   28
Benefits   ................... ...........................    28
Risks and Uncertainties ...      ............................    29
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............. ..    30
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: Supporting Tables and Charts
Tables
T-1  Educational Profile of the Labor Force, 1975
T-2  Disbribution of Arable Land by Type and Size; 1961, 1971
T-3  Manpower Requirements by Occupational Group, 1981
T-4  Comparative Education Indicators
T-5  Employment of Agricultural Professionals and Technicians, 1975
T-6  Ouput of Vocational Training Programs, 1975
T-7  Training Needs of Technical Staff in Agriculture
T-8  Projected Output of Vocational Training Program, 1982
T-9  Technical Assistance Program
T-10  Project Cost Estimates
T-11 Unit Capital Costs
T-12  Contingency Allowances
T-13  Estimated Recurrent Expenditures, 1982
T-14 Disbursement Schedule
Charts
C-1  Structure of the Formal Education System, 1976
C-2  Organization of the Public Agricultural Sector
C-3  Organization of National System of Agricultural Training (CENCAP)
C-4  Typical Use of Workshops for Different Courses
C-5  Proposed Organization of the Manpower Department of the
Ministry of Labor
C-6 Proposed Organization of the Vocational Training Center



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: Supporting Tables and Charts (Continued)
C-7   Organization of Project Implementation Machinery
C-8   Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 2: Costs and Benefits of Non-Formal Training
ANNEX 3: Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP






I.   DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND HUMAN RESOURCES IMPLICATIONS
Population and Labor Force
1.01      El Salvador's high birth rate has resulted in not only a high
population growth rate (3.1%), but also a young age structure. Population
has doubled in about 20 years, with the proportion under 15 years of age
increasing from 41% to 46%.
Distribution of population by age group
%                         Absolute ('000)
Age Group            1950      1961      1971           1950       1961      1971
Total               100.0    100.0    100.0         1,857.8   2,525.0   3,555.9
0-14                 41.2      44.8     46.4           764.7   1,131.2   1,651.3
15-64                55.8      52.0     50.1        1,038.0   1,313.0   1,781.5
65+                   3.0       3.2       3.5           55.1      80.8      123.1
Source: CONAPLAN, 1975.
The high growth rate and young age structure of the population have a direct
bearing on the public education system, for the Government has to provide
basic education and the practical knowledge and skills needed for entry into
the labor force for a school age population which has been growing at about
3.8% per year. These tasks place a growing burden on the Government's finan-
cial and human resources.
1.02      A large part of the labor force has not been exposed to the formal
education system. Although the education system has been expanding rapidly,
primary education (grades 1-9) presently absorbs only 75% of the 7 to 15 year-
old age group (about 20% lower if overage students are excluded). As a result,
about 40% of the total labor force and 56% of the rural labor force are
illiterate. The low level of educational attainment in rural areas constitutes
a barrier to the diffusion of modern techniques in agricultural and livestock
production; among those who have received some education, only 15% of agri-
cultural workers have more than a third grade education, compared to 52% of
all industrial workers (T-1).
1.03      In addition to improving formal education, the Government must
search for a more efficient and less costly mode of education and training
to raise the productivity of the rapidly increasing labor force and help
them absorb modern technology. Salvadoreans are diligent and active, but
they have not been systematically trained for skilled work and this has a
negative impact on their productivity.
1.04      The labor force has been growing at the same rate as the total
population, but is expected to increase at a higher rate in the future. New
entrants would average about 50,000 persons per year, which is too large a



- 2 -
number for the formal education system to train. Formal secondary, general
and technical education are inadequate in terms of both quality and output to
meet labor market requirements. Furthermore, each year more than 160,000
youths drop out of basic schools (grades 1-9) and 3,000 out of secondary
schools (grades 10-12) without being prepared for work. A parallel system of
non-formal education and training must be developed.
Economic Development and Rural Living Standards
1.05      The Government estimates that the present population (4.1 million in
1976) will double by the end of the 1990s, creating a major employment genera-
tion problem. Open unemployment already affects about 10% of the labor
force, as a result of insufficient economic growth in the face of the high
growth rate of the population. Although the modern sectors have grown moder-
ately, employment opportunities in these sectors are insufficient to absorb
the excess labor force in the large agricultural sector.
1.06      The serious rural unemployment situation is attributable in part
to the structure of agricultural production, which in turn is partly due to
the concentration of land ownership. Per capita rural incomes in 1975 were
about US$200 per capita compared with the national average of US$450; the top
5% of the landowners hold over two-thirds of arable land, and about 80% of
the farmers hold less than two hectares (T-2). Because of this limited
availability of land and high density of population, the majority of farmers
cultivate mainly one of the basic grains to satisfy the family food require-
ments and are therefore employed only a few months of the year. Average rural
underemployment is estimated at 47%, reaching 60% among landless farmers and
those farmers owning less than one hectare. To absorb a majority of the labor
force in rural areas, the Government will have to encourage and train farmers
to adopt more efficient and intensive ways of using arable land by changing
crop patterns and production techniques, reinforcing support services to
farmers and facilitating land ownership by small farmers. Because of the lack
of job opportunities and skills, the average rural laborer is unable to find
work outside the agriculture sector for more than 20 man/days per year. This
situation is worse for the secondary labor force (women and youths) which
suffers an even higher incidence of unemployment.
1.07      Studies indicate that in El Salvador the earnings of workers are
positively related to their level of education and training. Although the
rural areas have more school age population, they account for only 40% of
total enrollments in the first three cycles (grades 1-9) of education.
Moreover, less than 25% of the rural students, compared to 65% of the urban
students, complete the first four grades, which is considered the minimum
requirement for achieving permanent literacy.
Development Strategy
1.08      As the implementation of the Five-Year Socio-Economic Development
Plan (1973-77) approaches its end, the Government has been preparing a long-
term development plan (through 1990), within which another five-year plan



(1978-82) has been formulated. The thrust of the Government's development
strategy is to change the structure of production in the agricultural sector
(which accounts for almost half of all employment) in the medium term and to
diversify the economy mainly through industrial development in the long term.
The Government has already taken significant measures to strengthen agricul-
ture by establishing a land reform institution, the Agricultural Development
Bank, the National Center for Agricultural Technology and an agricultural
training authority within the Ministry of Agriculture. It will also emphasize
investment in irrigation and land development. As a first step toward economic
diversification, the Government is developing investment programs for export-
oriented industrial projects (e.g., agro-industry, farm machinery, iron
extraction and fertilizer) and tourism. Also, tax-free zones are being created
to attract some 60 foreign firms which would absorb 30,000 workers in labor-
intensive activities.
Manpower Requirements
1.09      Implementation of the Government's development strategy would
require reinforcement of rural extension and training services to provide
farmers and rural workers with modern production techniques. It would also
require strengthening of industrial training, especially of skilled and semi-
skilled workers, to meet the manpower requirements of industry and to give
El Salvador's labor force the skills necessary to attract foreign investment
in new labor-intensive industries.
1.10      Assuming that the economy would grow at 5-6% p.a., with the agricul-
tural sector growing at a slightly slower rate than the average and industry
and infrastructural services at a faster pace, it is estimated that average
annual manpower requirements would be on the order of 76,000 workers through
1981 (T-3). These would include 5,000 professionals and technicians (7%),
14,000 office and sales workers (19%), 18,000 agricultural workers (24%) and
15,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers (20%). On the supply side, the formal
education system would provide mainly professionals (2,000), office and sales
workers (8,700), and a few industrial workers (2,400). The most acute short-
ages are expected among agricultural workers, and skilled and semi-skilled
industrial workers, for the demand will arise mainly in such sectors as agro-
industry, textiles, chemicals, construction, utilities and transportation.
1.11      The formal education system will evidently not meet the require-
ments for new trained manpower, let alone provide the substantial upgrading
of the existing pool of workers which will be needed to enhance their pro-
ductivity and mobility. At this stage, the first priority for human re-
source development in El Salvador therefore is to organize systematic
nonformal training programs to supplement the formal education system.



- 4 -
II.   FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Development Plans and Achievements
2.01      Since the Government first undertook a systematic approach to
planning the development of its education and training sector in the 1960's,
it has come a long way towards strengthening the educational infrastructure
and modernizing the system. However, the two five-year development plans
(1968-72 and 1973-77) have emphasized mainly the formal education sector,
giving low priority to the development of non-formal education and training.
2.02      The formal education system ranges from kindergarten to higher
education. Kindergarten is designed for children aged four to six. Basic
education consists of nine grades equally divided into three cycles. Diver-
sified secondary education (grades 10-12) consists of specialized programs in:
academic studies, commerce, administration, pedagogy, industrial and vocational
arts, agriculture, hotels and tourism, navigation and fishery, and health.
Higher education is given by two autonomous universities, one national and one
private, and by various post-secondary institutions. The Ministry of Education
and Culture is responsible for administering all levels except higher education
(C-1).
2.03      The First Education Development Plan (1968-72) had ambitious aims:
(a) restructuring of the education system to provide nine years of basic
education free of charge for every child and diversified programs rather than
the traditional academic courses for secondary students; (b) strengthening
administration and supervision; (c) providing free or low cost learning
materials and introducing educational television; (d) rationalizing the teacher
training system; and (e) increasing educational opportunities for the rural
population.
2.04      Implementation of the First Plan was a limited success:  although
basic education expanded rapidly (6% p.a.), it covered only 65% of the
relevant age group (5-14 years) in 1972 (T-4), and the imbalance between urban
and rural areas with respect to educational opportunities was not corrected.
Completing the diversification of secondary education, revision of curricula
and production of teaching materials had to be postponed. However, basic
infrastructure for formal education was established with the regionalization
of school supervision, the introduction of educational television, and the
establishment of the Technical and Pedagogic Studies Department, the Textbook
Production Workshop and Office of Planning and Coordination in the Ministry of
Education.
2.05      The Second Education Development Plan (1973-77) supported conti-
nuation of the reform measures introduced under the First Plan and initiated
some new programs to meet the needs of the productive sectors and improve the
quality and efficiency of the formal education system. Extension of basic
education opportunities in rural areas is being accelerated to cover 70% of
the relevant age-group through construction of new schools and more efficient
utilization of existing ones. The rural schools are being converted into



community learning centers to launch a non-formal training program for the
rural population and an accelerated basic education course is being intro-
duced for over-aged students. In addition, the Plan introduced practical
subjects into basic education as part of an overall curricula revision and
to complete the diversification of secondary education to meet the technical
manpower requirements of the economy.
Challenges for Future Development
2.06      At present, the system faces a challenging task of improving the
quality and efficiency: the revised curricula still has to be reflected in
new textbooks and educational materials; low salaries do not attract high
calibre teachers; there is an acute need for intensive in-service training;
repetition and drop-out rates are high; the limited coverage and high unit
costs of educational television make it difficult to attain its original
objective of reaching the rural areas in a cost-effective manner to support
unqualified teachers; and the diversified secondary program (550 industrial,
190 agricultural, and 3,700 commercial graduates in 1974) has not yet reached
the goals set out in the plan, mainly because of the insufficient allocation
of funds to cover recurrent expenditures, unqualified teachers and inadequate
selection of students. Finally the proliferating non-university higher
education institutions are ridden by inefficiency due to their small scale.
Bank Role in Education and Training
2.07      The basic objective of Bank lending to the education sector in
El Salvador has been to support economic development and employment promotion
through the strengthening of the basic infrastructure of the formal education
system. Loan 609-ES (dated June 11, 1969) of US$4.9 million was designed
to support those aspects of the First Education Plan related to development
of formal secondary, agricultural and technical education and to reorganization
of administration of the formal education system. The project was completed
in December 1974, after a one year delay. An evaluation report by the Bank
of its results concluded that the project had made a significant impact on the
development of public secondary education in El Salvador, with project schools
accounting for 40% of all public secondary enrollments, and instructional
and learning materials developed under the project reaching 61% of the pub-
lic secondary school population (September 1975). Less successful were the
efficiency objectives of the project, with unit recurrent costs exceeding
estimates because of poor utilization of some facilities, and the teacher
training program, which was handicapped by underutilization of fellowships.
Loan 1007-ES (dated June 14, 1974) of US$17.0 million supported implementation
of the Second Education Plan in the field of rural formal basic education and
related teacher training, as well as an experimental non-formal rural training
scheme. The project is about two and one-half years behind the appraisal
schedule, but should be completed by late 1980. On the basis of a comprehen-
sive USAID-assisted sector study, the Government is preparing a new project for
Bank consideration to further strengthen the formal education system, with
particular regard to redressing inequities in access to basic education,
improving its quality and relevance, and filling the gaps in post-secondary
technological education. To complement its efforts at strengthening the formal
system, the Government is giving m^re emphasis to establishing an infrastructure
for non-formal training. The proposed project aims at supporting the Govern-
ment's institution-building objectives in non-formal agricultural and
industrial training.



- 6 -
III.   NON-FORMAL TRAINING IN AGRICULTURE AND INDUSTRY
Agricultural Institutions and Training System
3.01      Until recently El Salvador has had no well-defined policy or
systematic approach to agricultural training. Sporadic efforts have been
dispersed among the public agricultural development institutions, with no one
agency exclusively responsible for training or coordination. Non-formal
training programs have been limited to provision of technical information and
advisory services by extension workers, mainly for large and medium-scale
farmers; little emphasis has been given to the training of small-scale farmers,
agricultural workers and rural women. None of the programs or trainees have
been systematically evaluated. The formal agricultural education institutions
have been similarly weak suffering from inadequate instructional technology,
staff and facilities, which result in ineffective professionals and tech-
nicians, who have no recourse later to in-service training.
3.02      El Salvador has a relatively small number of rural institutions,
agricultural services being mostly centralized under the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. More than half of the total force of agricultural professionals and
technicians are employed in executive agencies of the Ministry, such as the
General Directorates of Natural Resources, Irrigation and Drainage, Plant and
Animal Protection, and Livestock Development; the National Center of Agricul-
ture and Livestock Technology (CENTA); and since January 1976, the National
System of Agricultural Training (CENCAP) (C-2).
3.03      CENTA, which is responsible for research and extension, is by far
the largest branch of the Ministry of Agriculture. It absorbs 40% of the
professionals and 68% of the technicians and accounts for about one-third of
the Ministry's recurrent budget (T-5). Although the extension service has
been the main vehicle for providing technical advice for farmers, it has
suffered from a shortage of staff, a high rate of turnover, and a lack of
adequate transport facilities. With 254 technicians, the extension service
covers less than 20% of total farm units. Including the extension workers of
the Livestock Development Directorate, the overall ratio of extension workers
to farm families is I to 1,150, which is too high for effective service. Un-
attractive salary schedules have caused high turn-over among extension workers
and kept authorized positions vacant. In 1974, for example, only 58% of
authorized positions were filled.
3.04      Public autonomous institutions in the agricultural sector include
the Agricultural Development Bank (BFA), the Institute of Agrarian Transfor-
mation of El Salvador (ISTA), the Salvadoran Coffee Research Institute, the
Commodity Stabilization Institute (IRA) and the Community Development and
Cooperation (FOCCO). Semi-public rural institutions include such credit and
cooperative organizations as INSA-FOCOOP, FEDECACES, and FEDECREDITO. Al-
though the BFA with 31 field agencies employs a number of agricultural tech-
nicians, its credit services to small farmers have not been particularly
active in the past, and most small farmers have had to depend on informal



- 7 -
credit sources.  ISTA, which was recently established, has begun to carry out
a limited agrarian transformation program, providing greater access to land,
as well as support services for small and medium-scale farmers.
3.05      The weakness of public agricultural agencies stems partly from
deficiencies in formal agricultural education and the lack of organized in-
service training programs. University level education suffers from inade-
quate physical facilities and shortages of qualified staff; links between
the agricultural faculty and the rural development process have not been
close; and few university students have much exposure to rural and farming
problems. Except for those trained abroad, most agricultural technicians
in El Salvador are graduates of the National School of Agriculture (ENA),
which was recently upgraded to offer post-secondary education. In the past
five years, about 55 technicians have graduated annually--an insufficient
number to meet manpower requirements. Although enrollment and graduates
have increased under the first Bank education project, ENA's curricula and the
quality of its faculty need further improvement, as students still do not
receive adequate courses in instructional techniques to enable them to effec-
tively impart agricultural technology to farmers. Enrollments in courses at
the secondary level have increased from 90 to 1,236 between 1971 and 1976,
with assistance under the first Bank education project. However, because of
their young age and level of training, graduates are utilized mainly for
auxiliary functions in rural youth clubs, and irrigation and plant protection
campaigns. Deficiencies in formal agricultural education should be redressed
in part through a process of in-service training of professionals.
3.06      Government's Strategy for Agricultural Training.  The Ministry of
Agriculture is giving increasing emphasis to raising the agricultural produc-
tivity and living standards of the rural poor. Since approximately 93% of the
income of small farm operators and 90% of their tillable land is in basic
grains, the recently established CENTA's research and operational programs
emphasize the production of these crops. About 50% of CENTA's budget for
research is allocated to labor intensive cropping systems and 90% of the
extension service budget is allocated to small basic grain farms. With tech-
nical assistance from USAID, CENTA has developed an intensive land utilization
and farm management system which includes the use of multi-cropping or inter-
cropping techniques and has incorporated the research results into its on-going
extension operations. CENTA has found the initial results encouraging and
intends to spread these and other modern techniques on a larger scale in a
cost-effective way. Budgets for CENTA have been increased and remunerations
for extension workers improved substantially.
3.07      The Ministry intends to decentralize administration of agricultural
services and training among four regions: Occidental, Central, Central-
Oriental and Oriental. In January 1976, the Government created within the
Ministry of Agriculture the National System of Agricultural Training (GENCAP),
which would be responsible for non-formal training programs. For this purpose
eight new rural training centers would be distributed among the four adminis-
trative regions to serve as the main vehicle for providing training to farmers,
agricultural workers and rural women. In addition, one in-service training
unit for professional staff would be established at the headquarters of the



- 8 -
CENCAr. The preparation/appraisal mission assisted Government officials in
furtIier developing the organizational concept and the operational programs of
CENCAP, paying particular attention to the non-formal training aspects.
Although the number of extension workers will be increased (by 220 in the next
five years), it will not be possible for them to cover a substantially increased
number of farmers using the traditional method of contacting individual farm
families. The government therefore needs to provide extension services on a
group basis and select motivated farm and community leaders so that they in
turn can influence other farmers to adopt modern technology. The Ministry of
Agriculture has experimented with such an approach in at least two locations:
the Nueva Guadalupe farmer training center, which has been operated by the
CENTA with UNICEF assistance, and the Izalco livestock training center of DGG.
Despite initial difficulties, these centers have shown some positive results.
3.08      CENCAP's independence from CENTA has been a controversial issue
since it could weaken coordination between the extension and education/training
functions which ought to be complementary. In the Government's view, CENTA's
major emphasis is given to research and information while education and train-
ing is treated only marginally and it is unlikely that the additional functions
planned for non-formal training to small farm operators on a large scale would
receive the desirable attention under CENTA. Although this is a valid argument,
the success of CENCAP's operations depends on its close coordination and
cooperation with other branches of the Ministry, and with public agencies
outside the Ministry. Therefore, CENTA should actively participate in the
CENCAP's operations and CENCAP's centers should be shared by other development
agencies as places where all agricultural training and rural development
programs will be provided.
Issues in Industrial Training
3.09      Until recently, there has been no central entity responsible for
setting out the parameters of the manpower problem and formulating a coherant
national strategy in the field of non-formal training for the modern sectors.
A few training programs exist for industrial and artisan occupations, but they
are unsystematic and suffer from a low level of financing and personnel,
limited dialogue with industry, and inadequate training facilities.
3.10      There are two main non-formal vocational training programs for the
modern sectors: the Fe and Alegria program operated by a non-profit private
organization, and the industrial training programs operated by the Manpower
Department of the Ministry of Labor. Fe and Alegria, which offers accelerated
primary education mainly to marginal residents in urban and rural areas, also
enrolls about 600 underprivileged youths in carpentry, electricity, auto-
mechanics, and sewing courses, of which only 100 per year complete the
courses. With 60% of its expenditures financed through Government subsidies
and private donations, the program has operated two workshops in the last four
years and has acquired some more workshops only recently.
3.11      A more important program, because of its potentially greater impact
on the labor market, is operated by the Ministry of Labor and would be ex-
panded under the proposed project. The Ministry of Labor created the Man-
power Department in 1962 which received technical and financial assistance



- 9 -
from USAID during its inception. The Department undertakes three basic acti-
vities: a vocational training service, an employment service and a migrant
workers' service. Vocational training is by far the main activity, with
about two-thirds of the departmental budget allocated to it. The Manpower
Department offers apprenticeship training in related theory only (two hours in
the evening, twice weekly for nine months) and accelerated training in skills
for job-seekers or unskilled employed workers (full-time over a nine-month
period). Emphasis has been placed on accelerated training, and this has been
mainly on clothing, welding and construction trades, with concentration in the
capital city of San Salvador and some mobile courses in San Miguel in the east
and Santa Ana in the west. The Department was to have been guided by the
National Apprenticeship Council, composed of nine members who represent the
interests of the public, employers and workers. The Council is responsible
for setting general training standards and making recommendations on courses
and programs. However, after preparing a draft apprenticeship law, which was
promulgated in 1964, the Council ceased to function actively.
3.12      Although the annual output has increased from 700 in 1964 to over
2,000 in 1975, the Manpower Department is not yet meeting the requirements of
the labor market (T-6). The mode of training is inflexible and does not meet
individual needs. The apprenticeship training given by employers is of poor
quality and not properly supervised: the Manpower Department had only one
officer to supervise more than 1500 new training contracts between 1971 and
1975, and neither the employers nor the trade unions have enough qualified
personnel to supervise training contracts. Employers tend to use apprentice-
ship as a means to avoid paying adequate wages and taxes. The accelerated
training program given in the inadequately furnished workshops in rented
buildings is too long and almost half of the trainees drop out because of lack
of money to subsist during the nine month training period. Mobile courses are
also too long and are limited to welding for men and sewing and cooking for
women. Upgrading of employed workers either on or off-the-job and the train-
ing of supervisors and foremen have received scant attention. Improved
relationship with the enterprises, an overhauling of the apprenticeship system
and greater emphasis on upgrading and in-plant training are required for the
promotion of labor productivity.
3.13      Vocational training programs have also suffered from the absence of
any systematic effort to assess manpower requirements on an industrial,
regional or occupational basis; no continuing dialogue with industry to eva-
luate the training courses; no vocational guidance or counselling for trainees
on the selection of trades; no scientifically prepared teaching materials;
and no training standards by which trained workers could be tested and
certified for recognition by employers. Standardization, testing and
certification is particularly important to encourage employers and workers
to undertake skill training. The lack of these institutional measures has
created wage differentials incommensurate with the levels of skill and
productivity and failed to provide strong incentive for workers to enroll in
training programs, particularly for upgrading.
3.14      The weaknesses in the present system are attributable to the lack of
adequately trained staff and instructors in the Ministry of Labor and to the
limited availability of financial resources for training. The low training



- 10 -
cost per student (US$123 per year), which is equivalent to one-third of the
cost of formal technical education at the secondary level, reflects not the
efficiency but the low quality of training. Instructors' salaries are less
than those in private enterprises, and provision for materials, maintenance
and procurement of new equipment is limited.
3.15      As early as 1954, the Ministry of Economy created the National
Productivity Center (CENAP), with technical assistance from the U.S. Govern-
ment, to provide services for all sectors of the economy in the fields of
management training, technical documentation and direct consultancy services
to promote productivity. Since the U.S. technical assistance has ceased,
the Center has had no clear-cut objectives and operational programs have been
inconsistent because of frequent changes of management, lack of qualified
staff and weak support from the Ministry of Economy. CENAP has occasionally
provided consultancy services for enterprises, organized seminar courses on
management and occasionally offered vocational training courses in a rented
classroom. These programs have not proved cost-effective. They have in many
cases overlapped with those provided by the Ministry of Labor; and consulting
services and management courses have been limited to 20 to 30 large or medium-
size firms and rarely extended to small enterprises with less than 50 employees
which most need such services. According to CENAP's surveys, there are about
5,300 persons with limited formal education holding supervisory posts in
enterprises, and some 20% of 1,200 small-scale enterprises are looking for
assistance in resolving management problems confronting their daily business.
However, as a result of its mediocre performance, CENAP's image among
businessmen is not good and this is unlikely to change without responsive and
innovative programs.
3.16      Government's Strategy for Industrial Training.  Successive Govern-
ments have recognized the need to reshape the industrial training system to
support the general economic development of El Salvador. In the past, the
Ministry of Planning and Coordination (with ILO assistance) and the Ministry
of Economy (with UNIDO assistance) both prepared draft training laws for the
establishment of an autonomous industrial training agency which would operate
programs of the order of US$1.5 million per year in recurring expenditures and
would be financed by a levy on the wage and salary bills of employers. The
former Government considered this proposal for four years; opinion was divided,
with the private sector remaining neutral. The main issue was the feasibility
of the levy system since the private sector, which would be the principal
contributor, is already paying a high payroll tax (13%) for social security
and public housing.
3.17      The new Government which took office in July 1977 has decided that
in the short-run it will expand vocational training within the existing
organizational framework and financed entirely out of the regular Government
budget. However, it intends to pursue the establishment of an autonomous,
self-financed training agency as a medium-term goal. To ensure coordination
among all Ministries and agencies presently involved in vocational training,
the new Government created (by Executive Decree No. 33 of December 15, 1977)
a National Vocational Training Council, comprising the Ministers of Labor,
Planning, Economy, Agriculture, and Education, together with two representa-
tives each of the employers and trade unions. To assist the Council, a
full-time Technical Committee has been established with representatives from



- 11 -
each of the aforementioned Ministries. The Committee's first task has been
to delineate the major spheres of responsibility of each Ministry in the
field of vocational training. This has been particularly important for the
Ministries of Education and Labor, where the potential for duplication and
overlapping of industrial training programs was greatest. Action by the
Committee in the immediate future is expected to focus on study and review of
existing legislation affecting vocational training. Finally, the Committee
will also participate in reviewing, programming and budgeting the annual
training plans of each Ministry/agency.
3.18      Pursuant to the decisions reached by the Technical Committee of the
National Vocational Training Council, the Ministry of Labor will undertake
responsibility for all industrial training for skilled occupations in the
organized modern sector. The Manpower Department of the Ministry of Labor
would be reorganized and strengthened to administer such programs.  Operational
emphasis would be placed on worker upgrading through both in-plant training
supported by mobile action and institutional training in fixed centers at
strategic locations. The Ministry of Economy, through CENAP, would concen-
trate on management training, consulting and information services. Training
would be geared to serve employed supervisors and those employees with promo-
tion potential, as well as small-scale entrepreneurs. The Ministry of Education
would undertake nonformal basic education and training for the urban and rural
poor in the informal sector. The proposed Bank project is designed to assist
in the development of the industrial and management training programs of the
Ministries of Labor and Economy and the agricultural programs of the Ministry
of Agriculture. A complementary project is presently under preparation by
USAID to assist the Ministry of Education in expanding its nonformal training
activities.



- 12 -
IV.   THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
4.01      The proposed project would assist the Government in establishing
a nation-wide infrastructure of non-formal agricultural and industrial
training to meet the pressing requirements for technical manpower and increase
the productivity and income of small and medium-size farmers, agricultural
workers, skilled and semi-skilled industrial workers, and their supervisors.
4.02      The project is summarized below and followed by a detailed descrip-
tion. Specifically, it includes:
(1) construction, equipping and furnishing of:
No. of Institutions    Trainee Places
Replacement    New
a.   Agricultural Training                                 9             360
(i)  Rural Training Center (RTC)                      8            320
(ii)  In-service Training Center (ITC)                 1             40
b.   Industrial Training                         1        12           1,140
(i) San Salvador Center and Central
Administration                      1                       560
(ii)  San Miguel Center                                1            240
(iii)  Santa Ana Center                                 1            220
(iv)  Mobile Training Units                           10            120
c.   Management and Supervisory Training                   1             160
(National Productivity Center)
Total                  1        22           1,660
(2)  conducting of a model survey of detailed vocational training
needs; and
(3)  related technical assistance, comprising 26 man-years of
specialist services and 15 man-years of fellowships for
training abroad.
Agricultural Training
4.03      The project would provide for the construction, equipping and
furnishing of facilities for the National System of Agricultural Training
(CENCAP), including an In-service Training Center (ITC) and office facilities



- 13 -
at the national level and eight rural training centers at the regional
level (C-3). CENCAP consists of two operating divisions for: (i) in-service
training of professionals and technicians, and (ii) training of community
leaders, auxiliary technicians, small and medium-scale farmers and rural women.
Both divisions will have supporting units for planning and evaluation, curri-
culum development, research, communications and administration. TIe Director,
Deputy Director and other key personnel of CENCAP have already been appointed.
4.04      The In-service Training Center (ITC) would provide upgrading and
induction courses for a total of 250 agricultural professionals and techni-
cians annually. This target is based on an estimate of existing and projected
technical staff to be employed in public and autonomous agricultural institu-
tions by 1982, assuming that only a certain percentage would require upgrading
training over the five year period (T-7). Selection of trainees would be made
by each individual institution in coordination with CENCAP.
4.05      The ITC would be provided with one classroom and dormitories for 40
trainees, and facilities for technical and administrative units. To take
advantage of existing amenities such as a library, food services and training
staff, the ITC would be located within the compound of the ENA, which is also
adjacent to the Agricultural Extension and Research Center (CENTA).
4.06      Detailed programming of the duration, level and curricula of courses
would be worked out by CENCAP's Planning and Evaluation Unit in consultation
with the Planning Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and approved by the
Coordinating Committee. The courses would address training needs of both
employed and newly recruited personnel with emphasis on the latter. Some
courses, particularly the induction courses, would be of a basic nature (such
as public administration, agricultural policy, planning and programming, and
project preparation and evalua-ion). Others, particularly the upgrading
courses, would be of a more specific and technical nature, such as agricultural
technology, animal husbandry, forestry, agricultural economics, farm management,
rural credit, marKeting, cooperatives and peasants organization, rural socio-
logy, irrigatio.i, and soil conservation. The duration of the courses would
vary depending on the topic and trainee groups, the majority lasting from two
to eight weeks.
4.07      Periodic evaluation of the training program would be made by the
Planning and Evaluation Unit of CENCAP. The Government gave assi2rances that
it will initiate a monitoring and evaluation system by September 30, 1978.
4.08      No permanent teaching staff would be assigned to the ITC.  The
teaching staff would comprise visiting instructors drawn from the best
qualified and experienced staff of various public agricultural institutions,
ENA and the university. The Planning and Evaluation Unit of the CENCAP would
identify the instructors, with the assistance of the Pedagogical Development
Unit and the Coordinating Committee.
4.09      The project would also provide for the construction, equipping and
furnishing of eight new Rural Training Centers (RTC) (see Map). Each center
would have a multipurpose room and boarding facilities for 40 trainees, one



- 14 -
multipurpose workshop with a capacity of 20 trainees for carpentry, electrical,
metal and home economics work, two staff houses and transportation facilities.
4.10      The eight RTCs together would train annually a total of between
9,600 and 12,000 small and medium-size farmers, farm leaders, cooperative
promoters, auxiliary agents of extension and agrarian transformation and rural
women. 1/ In addition, the RTCs would provide field training to senior
students of the ENA and would become focal points for farmers' meetings and
for exchanging information on all aspects of development activity in the areas
to be served.
4.11      The RTCs would offer a variety of short courses (one or two weeks)
aiming at increasing productivity and earnings of small and medium-size
farmers and amelioration of their unemployment and underemployment situation.
Particular emphasis would be given to the transfer of new agricultural
technology, intensive land utilization and cultivation of basic grains under
irrigation, which CENTA has developed and experimented with the help of
USAID. Other areas would include horticulture, livestock and cottage indus-
tries. The course content would vary depending on the participants and the
characteristics of the region to be served. In addition to agricultural
skill training, courses would include such "social" subjects as nutrition,
health, family planning, home improvement, rural youth club and other group
activities. All courses would eventually be complemented by mass-communication
media principally radio)programs which would be developed with the technical
assistance provided under the project.
4.12      Each RTC would be provided with two permanent staff members, a
director and an assistant, who would be responsible for the administration
and organization of training programs in coordination with other public
agencies engaged in rural development and agriculture. Although the two
permanent staff members would take part in training, a large part of the
load would be placed on visiting instructors drawn from other public
agencies, particularly extension agencies at the central and regional levels.
Academic qualifications of the teaching staff are of less importance than
practical experience and knowledge, provided their academic qualifications
are not lower than those of the "agronomos". Staff would receive pedagogical
training from CENCAP before their periodic retraining thereafter. Visiting
staff would be provided with boarding facilities while teaching and would
receive remunerative incentives according to the number of teaching hours.
4.13      The RTCs have been located on the basis of the concentration of
small and medium-farm holdings, a balanced distribution of centers across the
country, ease of access to existing agricultural development institutions, and
agricultural development projects envisaged in the near future. Each of the
four agricultural zones would have at least one RTC.
1/   Some trainees may take more than one course, in which case the total
number of beneficiaries would be reduced accordingly.



- 15 -
4.14      Cooperation of other departments of the Ministry of Agriculture
and semi-autonomous agricultural institutions is essential for the success-
ful operation of CENCAP's training program. In particular, the agricultural
extension and livestock development units would have to play a major role in
identifying training needs, planning courses, selecting participants, providing
instructors anc' practical training facilities, and developing course content.
CENCAP's programs would, in turn, enhance the effectiveness of the research and
extension services. To ensure such technical cooperation and collaboracion,
the Government has established a coordinating committee tor in-service training
and rural training in the Ministry of Agriculture, comprising staff of various
departments of the Ministry and autonomous public institutions.
Industrial Training
4.15      The project would provide for construction, furnishing and equipping
of three fixed training centers, 10 mobile training units and a central adminis-
tration unit (Manpower Department of the Ministry of Labor). As a result, the
national training network would be expanded by establishing fixed Vocational
Training Centers (VTC) in three strategically located large cities to serve
the vicinity and provide bases for the mcdile training program, which would
also be expanded under the project (Map). These programs together would train
about 5,600 (about 1,800 new entrart.; to the industrial labor force and 3,800
apprentices and employed workers) skilled and semi-skilled workers per year,
in 33 occupations in the co. sruction, mechanical, electrical and textile
industries, to partially meet a projected manpower gap of 15,000 workers per
annum. The balance would be met mostly by informal learning on the job and,
to some extent. through technical and vocational education programs of the
formal second ry system. Annual output from both the formal and nonformal
systems, des_ribed in detail in T-8, is summarized below.
Annual Output of Skilled Workers from the
Project Courses and Formal System
Courses                                        1974                    1982
1.   Vocational Training                     1,824                    5,660
i.   Apprenticeship course                -                        260
ii.   A    .zcelerated course            !,104                    1,600
iii.   Up-grading course (in center)        191                    1,400
iv.   Up-grading course (in plant)         529 /1                 2,400
2.   Secondary Education                        739 /2                2,400
(Technical and Vocational
courses)
GRAND TOTAL                   2,563                   8,060
/1   At present, it is called apprenticeship.
/2   Including industrial, vocational arts, health and tourism.



- 16 -
4.16      The three VTCs would each offer different modes of training to pro-
vide for flexibility in meeting the needs of different target groups (C-4).
The first mode would be apprentice training, which would provide
contracted apprentices with a four-hour morning session five days a week for
a duration of 48 weeks (about 960 hours). This arrangement would allow the
apprentices to work in the afternoon so that they could learn and earn simul-
taneously. The program would utilize four 12-week modules in a cluster of
four related occupations, aiming at providing cadres of skilled workers for
enterprises. (For example, construction apprentices would take four modules--
one each in bricklaying, carpentry, plumbing and concrete work). The second
mode of training would be up-grading training, which would provide those al-
ready working in industrial occupations with a two-hour evening session, four
times a week for 24 weeks (about 192 hours). This mode of training would be
available for unskilled or semi-skilled workers as well as skilled workers.
The third mode of training would be accelerated training which would provide
job-seekers with a full (8 hours) session for a duration of 24 weeks (960
hours) and/or a four-hour afternoon session, five days a week for a duration
of 24 weeks (480 hours).  This mode would substantially reduce the training
period to meet individual needs and help alleviate the trainees' financial
problem during training.  Two similar occupations are combined into a course
in a modular form so that employability of trainees can be improved.
t
4.17      An in-plant-training unit would be created in the Manpower Depart-
ment of the Ministry of Labor. This unit would establish a service to help
enterprises diagnose training needs and iwpLneWelt on-the-job training programs
for both contracted apprentices and employees requiring skill upgrading. To
create the necessary infrastructure within the enterprises, supervisors and
foremen would be offered opportunities to attend short courses in instructing
techniques, industrial relations, accident prevention, etc., in collaboration
with CENAP. Besides this, a skill upgrading program would be carried out in-
plant using mobile units provided under the project. Emphasis would be on
mechanical, structural, and electrical maintenance in sugar refineries, fish
canning plants, textile industries, food and beverage processing industries,
agricultural mechanics industries and coffee plantations. Technical assistance
provided under the project would help establish the in-plant-training unit.
Assurances were obtained from the government that the abovementioned in-plant
training advisory service unit would be established by June 30, 1979.
4.18      Courses and occupations have been se'ected on the basis of national
manpower data available from the recent Population Census, the manpower survey
of 1975, annual establishment surveys and discussions with employers' and
workers' organizations. In order to refine the national information into
regional or community-based data cross-classified by industry and occupations,
a detailed training needs survey would be conducted annually by the Ministry
of Labor, and the first of its kind would be made under the project. The
tentative training occupations would be further refined, and syllabi, work-
books and teaching manuals prepared on the basis of detailed occupational ana-
lysis, for which technical assistance would be provided. Flexibility of the
training courses would be ensured through the use of short, self-contained,
but inter-connected training modules, which would permit trainees to leave a



- 17 -
course at the end of each module, and return to the next module later in their
career for further training according to their needs.
4.19      Entrance requirements would be the completion of primary education
and a minimum age of 16. However, most of the trainees are expected to have an
educational background higher than primary education. Applicants are expected
to outnumber places available for training, and therefore, the selection
process would be stricter, aptitude tests would be given, and vocational guid-
ance would be provided. Although the Government would not provide stipends to
compensate for foregone earnings, drop-out rates are expected to be substan-
tially lower because of shorter courses, time available to work during training,
competition for admission, the systematic selection process, instruction by
trained teachers with adequate equipment and the improvement in placement
services and liaison with employers. Each workshop is limited to 20 trainees
with one instructor assisted by instructor trainees, thus providing intensive
training and supervision. No fees would be charged to trainees.
4.20      The project would greatly expand the training programs of the Minis-
try of Labor and require the Ministry to reorganize the administrative and
technical structure of the existing Manpower Department. Under the project,
the present staff of 34 would increase to an estimated 56 professional per-
sonnel to operate two new divisions: planning and evaluation, and operations.
An organizational chart showing the functions of the enlarged structure com-
patible with its new national role, appears in C-5. Assurances were obtained
that the government would create the two divisions by June 30, 1979.
4.21      In order to operate the three VTC and 10 mobile units, the project
would require a total of 47 instructors and 22 non-teaching staff (C-6).
Instructor trainees would be recruited from among supervisors who have acquired
sufficient skill and proficiency in addition to formal education, preferably
in technical secondary education. They would be trained mainly in instructing
techniques, course organization and evaluation methods by the instructor
training unit. This unit would be established under the project in the San
Salvador Center. In addition, head instructors, instructor trainers and other
key personnel would be selected from among existing instructors and technical
school teachers, and sent abroad for training. On their return, they would
receive on-the-job experience in close collaboration with technical assistance
specialists. Assurances were obtained that the Government would provide
instructors with working conditions adequate to ensure the quality and conti-
nuity of such instructors in carrying out their responsibilities, and for this
purpose the Technical Committee of the National Vocational Training Council
would annually study the competitiveness of the remunerations for instructors
and make recommendations to the Council for action.
4.22      Detailed lists of equipment with specifications, and standards for
each course, would be prepared by working parties composed of instructors of
the respective course with the assistance of equipment specialists made
available under the project. For both economy and convenience sake, provi-
sion would be made for the procurement of spares and accessories when
ordering equipment. For this purpose, an allowance of 5% of the equipment
cost has been included in the project cost. In addition to the equipment to



- 18 -
be used directly for teaching, the lists would also include audio-visual aids,
equipment for printing teaching materials, and transportation necessary for
delivering these items.
4.23      Under the project, the Government would develop a trade testing
system on the basis of the training standards for recognized skilled occupa-
tions to be established by the Ministry. Upon the successful completion of
the prescribed tests, participants would be awarded certificates indicating
the level of their skills. This system of testing and certification would
motivate workers to undertake training courses and enable private enterprises
to establish wage and salary scales on the basis of skill levels and occupa-
tion. The Government gave assurances that by June 30, 1980, the aforementioned
standards, testing and certification system would be introduced.
4.24      Vocational guidance and counselling services would be provided to
help trainees select trades and enhance employability upon termination of
training. Placement of trainees would be further facilitated by the services
of placement officers at the VTC who would work closely with the employment
services network of the Ministry of Labor. Technical assistance has been
included in the project for the purpose of training personnel in these areas.
Assurances were obtained from the Government regarding the establishment of
guidance and placement services by June 30, 1980.
4.25      Close relation between industry and training centers would be
ensured at both the central and regional levels. Placement officers of each
VTC would also act as industrial liaison officers. They would continously
indentify the changing needs of the industry, discuss deficiencies in the
present training programs, follow up on the performance of trainees on
the job, and convey the suggestions of employers to the center for further
action. Moreover, each VTC would have an advisory committee which would
include representatives of industry, workers and public agencies to discuss
curricula, method of training, selection of trainees and all other matters
related to the operation of the VTC. At the central level, the National
Vocational Training Council would take into account the opinions of employers
and workers, and ensure coordination between public agencies when introducing
new training programs and implementing existing ones.
Training of Supervisors and Small and Medium Scale Entrepreneurs
4.26      The project would also construct, equip and furnish four classrooms
each with a capacity for 20 trainees and one multi-purpose room with 80 places
to be used by the National Productivity Center (CENAP) for training of mid-
management and supervisory personnel for the private sector and for an integ-
rated training/consultancy program for small- and medium-scale entrepreneurs.
CENAP would operate under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, but
would be located on the same site as the San Salvador Vocational Training
Center (VTC) to benefit from the amenities of the vocational training system.
CENAP would also operate courses outside San Salvador, utilizing the regional
VTCs of the Ministry of Labor. Assurances were obtained from the Government
that VTCs and CENAP would share their classrooms and other facilities.



- 19 -
4.27      Supervisory courses would be organized in specific economic sectors,
covering industrial engineering, industrial maintenance and administration.
Under the proposed method each instructor would be responsible for two groups
of 20 participants, handling up to 40 participants annually. Classroom work
would be limited to one two-hour session per week when the week's study
material would be discussed and work assignments given out. These assignments
would involve applying course materials in the participants' own work place.
Each group would meet with the instructor on one other occasion weekly to
enable individual participants to discuss their problems with the material and
review progress with the assignments. In this way the course would be able to
handle participants having a wide range of knowledge and experience. Greater
emphasis would be placed on manuals, training materials and other written
matter which the trainee could study at home or use at work. The courses
would be limited to people actually performin- supervisory jobs, and sessions
would be held in the evening for a period of ten months.  As this is an
assignment-based program, the instructors would have to devote a great deal of
time to individual tutoring. The first phase of the program would cover such
industrial sectors as textiles, leather, food and beverages, and metal mechanics.
With a teaching staff of 6 instructors (in different economic sectors), a maxi-
mum of 240 middle-level supervisors could be trained each year. Thus, over
five-year period about 1,200 persons or approximately 25% of the existing pool
of supervisory personnel would have been upgraded.
4.28      For small-scale entrepreneurs, an integrated training/consulting/
problem-solving program would be introduced. Problem identification and can-
didate selection would result from preliminary visits made by instructors to
enterprises in the same industrial branch. This would be followed by further
in-depth visits to analyze common problems and develop a training course.
Seminars would then be held to motivate the participants, followed by meetings
twice per week during which the problems would be discussed and suggestions
made. The businessman would be motivated through participation in the solu-
tion of real problems. Through follow-up visits to the workplace, the instruc-
tor would assist in implementing the solutions discussed; thus a management
consulting job would have been done. The objective is not simply to solve a
set of identified problems but to create in the participants a problem-solving
capability and to make them aware of how to utilize the resources which they
can find outside their own business. Since one instructor can supervise two
groups of 15 persons simultaneously and conduct two programs of no more than
six months' duration per year, about 180 small-scale entrepreneurs can be helped
with three instructors.  CENAP's existing consulting group which has been suit-
ably strengthened through technical assistance of UNDP/UNIDO would implement
the program. Since the program is an innovative pilot effort, assurances were
obtained from the government that the program for upgrading supervisory and
middle management personnel and the small-scale entrepreneurs program would be
evaluated annually in consultation with the employers' organization.
Technical Assistance
4.29      Technical assistance for the implementation of the project has been
designed in consultation with other bilateral and multilateral agencies, and
is rather extensive in scope. It assists the Government in initiating new



- 20 -
training programs and strengthening institutional organization and management.
It comprises (a) 7 man-years of specialist services and 5.8 man-years of
fellowships to assist in planning, operation and evaluation of agricultural
and rural training programs; (b) about 13 man-years of specialist services and
8.6 man-years of fellowships to assist in planning and organization, testing
and certification, instructor training, and vocational guidance of industrial
training programs; (c) 5 man-years of specialist services and one man-year of
fellowships to assist in operation of supervisory and management training
courses and (d) one man-year of specialist services to assist the Project Unit
in physical planning of the project institutions. The cost of the program is
estimated at an average of US$55,000 per man-year of specialist services and
US$15,000 per man-year of fellowships. A detailed program is summarized in
T-9. Assurances were obtained that the Government would hire certain key
specialists by December 31, 1978 to expedite project implementation.



- 21 -
V.   COST AND FINANCING OF THE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.7 million.  The
breakdown by type of expenditure and project institution (shown in detail in
T-10) is summarized below:
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Cost Estimates by Project Item
(US$ 1.00 = Colones 2.50)
Colones (million)          US$ (million)
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Agricultural Training
1.   Rural Training Centers  2.569   2.325    4.907    1.03    0.93    1.96
2.   Tn-service Training
Center                 0.639   0.409    1.052    0.26    0.16    0.42
Industrial Training
1.   San Salvador Center      3,080   2.790    5.888    1.24    1.12    2.36
2.   San Miguel Center  )     2.582   2.342    4.937    1.04    0.94    1.98
3.   Santa Ana Center         2
4.   Mobile Units             0.015   0.281    0.292    0.01    0.11    0.12
5.   Training Needs Survey   0.063   0.149    0.213    0.02    0.06    0.08
Management and Supervisory
Training
1.   National Productivity
Center (CENAP)         0.793   0.462    1.263    0.31    0.19    0.50
Technical Assistance             0.047   4.182    4,164    0.01    1.66    1.67
Project Implementation           0.636   0.054    0.702    0.26    0.02    0.28
Base Cost       10,424  12.994   23.418    4.18    5.19    9.37
Physical Contingencies           1.042   1.300    2.342    0.41    0.52    0.93
Base Cost & Physical
Contingencies                 11.466  14.294   25.760    4.59    5.71   10.30
Price Contigencies               3.480   2.416    5.896    1.39    0.97    2.36
Total Costs    14.946  16.709   31.655    5.98    6.68   12.66



- 22 -
5.02      Base costs are expressed in estimated prices as of April 1, 1978.
Costs of civil works are derived from recent contracts obtained from private
enterprises, actual costs of the second education project schools which are
under construction, and some USAID-financed agricultural institutions. Further,
the cost estimates were adjusted to reflect the maximum use of local building
materials and economic norms and standards in the design and construction of
the project institutions. Average construction costs (including site develop-
ment costs) are estimated at US$152 per square meter of gross floor area.
This is on the basis of one story buildings, the structural system being of
steel and reinforced concrete for industrial training facilities, and cement
block and brick walls with asbestos or galvanized roofing for rural training
facilities. Furniture and equipment costs are likewise based on actual costs
incurred in the first and second education projects.  Capital costs per
trainee would be economical, since the centers would mostly be used on a
multi-shift basis or for short repeated courses (T-11).
5.03      Contingency allowances have been added to the base cost estimates
as follows (T-12): (a) physical contingencies equal to 10% of the base cost
estimates; and (b) expected price increases of 10% in 1978, 8% in 1979, and 6%
in 1980 and 1981 for all categories of expenditures except professional services
and civil works, for which higher price increases have been estimated at 12%
in 1978, 9% in 1979, 8% in 1980 and 7% in 1981 due mainly to higher local
price increases. Total contingencies would be US$3.3 million or 26% of the
total project cost.
5.04      The foreign exchange component of US$6.7 million, representing 53%
of the total project cost, was calculated on the basis of experience in the
first and second projects as follows: construction 27%, site development 50%,
professional services 10%, furniture 45%, equipment 95%, and technical
assistance 95%.
Financial Plan
5.05      The total project cost of the US$12.7 million would be financed by a
Bank loan of US$9.0 million and a Government budgetary contribution of US$3.7
million, as follows:
Financing
Calendar Year              Expenditure               Bank       Government
(US$'000)              (US$'000)    (US$'000)
1978                       289                      224           65
1979                     2,627                    1,873          754
1980                     8,302                   5,795         2,507
1981                     1,444                   1,108           336
Total            12,662                   9,000         3,662
The Government gave assurances that it would make sufficient and timely bud-
getary allocations to meet the annual requirement for counterpart funds to
implement the project.



- 23 -
Recurrent Costs
5.06      The project would have recurring costs estimated at 4.6 million
colones (US$1.8 million equivalent in 1976 prices) in 1982 when all the
project institutions are almost fully operational (T-13). This amount is
small in relation to the national budget as a whole: net additional costs
account for only 0.7 percent of the Government's recurrent budget for FY1976.
Moreover, the agriculture and rural training component would raise the recur-
rent expenditures of the Ministry of Agriculture by only 4% (1.6 million
colones). However, the industrual training component would increase the recur-
rent expenditures of the Ministry of Labor substantially (by 38% or 2 million
colones). The Government gave assurances that by December 31, 1979, it would
prepare and submit to the Bank for comment studies for the establishment and
operation of an autonomous training agency, which would absorb all public
industrial training activities, and take the necessary steps to make funds
available for the efficient operation of the agency.



- 24 -
VI.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Administration (C-7)
6.01      A project unit would be established in the Ministry of Labor to
administer project implementation. The Minister would appoint a project unit
director, who would be responsible for the physical implementation of the
industrial and management training components. The project unit director
would also coordinate with officials of other Ministries, particularly a
sub-unit in the Ministry of Agriculture which would directly implement the
agricultural training component. The project unit director would be assisted
by a full-time project staff comprising an experienced administrator/accountant,
an architect or engineer, a procurement specialist and a vocational training
specialist, all appointed in consultation with the Bank.
6.02      The project unit director would coordinate with members of the
Technical Committee of the National Vocational Training Council, who were
appointed by the various Ministers involved in vocational training, and who
would be responsible in each Ministry for providing technical information to
the project unit director and implementing the educational programs related to
the project. The Government would also provide the project unit of the
Ministry of Labor and the sub-unit of the Ministry of Agriculture with ade-
quate support staff, facilities and other resources that may be required. To
help the Government retain qualified professionals, the salaries of the
project unit staff, together with office equipment and furniture costs,
estimated at US$281,000, have been included in the total project cost.
Appointment of the project unit director, accountant and architect or engineer
would be a condition for effectiveness of the loan.
Implementation Schedule
6.03      To assist the Government in the effective and timely execution of
the proposed project, an implementation schedule has been prepared (C-8).
This schedule has been discussed during the appraisal and post-appraisal
missions, and mutually agreed upon as a project implementation and monitoring
tool. Assurances were obtained from the Government that the project unit
would further develop a detailed implementation schedule and send it to the
Bank for review by December 31, 1978 and update it thereafter as needed.
Professional Services
6.04      Architectural design work on the agricultural training components
would be prepared by the sub-unit staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, and
the remainder by consultant firms contracted on terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank. The Government gave assurances that the project unit staff
and the Technical Committee members, supported as necessary by other technical
staff of each Ministry, would review the architectural designs and equipment
and furniture lists before submitting them to the Bank. They would certify
that these meet the economic functional standards and the educational objec-
tives of the project. The project unit would be assisted by facility planning
specialists and equipment specialists whose services would be provided under
the project.



- 25 -
Sites
6.05      Sites have been identified for nine agricultural training institu-
tions, but not yet for the industrial and supervisory training institutions.
No particular difficulties are expected in the selection of thrse sites ex-
cept for the San Salvador training center. Government gave assurances that
these sites would be acquired or leased in accordance with criteria acceptable
to the Bank by June 30, 1979.
Construction
6.06      Except for the Ministry of Public Works, the Proveeduria General de
la Republica controls all the construction carried out by government agencies.
For projects requiring special attention, the Proveedor General delegates his
responsibility to Ministers or to Under-secretaries. Civil works contracts
with the Government are exempted from taxes, and construction materials are
imported free or at nominal tariffs.
6.07      The construction of the project institutions would face certain
difficulties. Construction in El Salvador increased substantially between
1963 and 1974. In the private sector the gross area of buildings doubled
(from 0.7 to 1.5 million M2) and in the public sector expenditures increased
from e 56.0 million to e 170 million in current prices (1969-74).  Total
investment in 1974 amounted to ¢ 315.2 million (US$126 million) of which 54%
was in the public sector.  Participation of Salvadoran contractors in the
reconstruction effort following the recent earthquake in Guatemala also con-
tributed to producing a strain on the capacity of the Salvadoran construction
industry. Although the supply of construction materials has not yet been
affected by the increasing volume of work, prices have been rising. Contrary
to the traditionally stable relationship between contractors and labor,
construction work has recently been affected by strikes. The shortage of
skilled workers is another constraint. The number of workers in the San
Salvador metropolitan area is estimated at 15,000, of whom about 30% have
no skills and 60% only limited training.
6.08      The major construction problems could be minimized by using proper
designs, developing a reasonable program and making tendering attractive to
contractors. Designs should allow for use of very simple construction methods.
The design of rural training centers would benefit from the experience acquired
by the Ministry of Education in the construction of rural schools under the
second education project (Loan 1007-ES) and other institutions such as the
Technical Institute. Designers would be helped by the physical planning
specialists whose effectiveness would depend largely on their early participa-
tion. It is advisable that the designers have the services of several experts
for short periods, rather than only one expert assigned for a year on a full-
time basis. Assurances were obtained from the Government that the project
unit would contract physical planning specialists by December 31, 1978.



- 26 -
6.09      Construction programs should take into account the seasonal cycle
since heavy rains in the period between mid-May and mid-October, if dis-
regarded, would adversely affect implementation and costs.
6.10      Tendering requires flexibility to make it attractive to both large
and small contracting firms. Rural training centers would be divided into
two packages comprising four units each; the vocational training centers at
Santa Ana and San Miguel should be grouped in one package, and the one in
San Salvador would be tendered separately. In all packages, offers for sepa-
rate items would be accepted, and contracts awarded to the lowest evaluated
bidder on each item. Contractors would be prequalified. Of some 170 members
(including manufacturers and suppliers) of the Salvadoran Chamber of Construc-
tion, about five large firms (capacity US$1.0 million or more) and 15 small
and medium firms (from US$150,000 to US$1 million) are expected to be pre-
qualified. Prequalified firms would be allowed to submit bids within the
ceiling established for each one when prequalified. Ceilings would be updated
as necessary, before the start of biddings.
Procurement
6.11      Contracts for furniture and equipment (US$3.0 million) would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. However, furniture and equipment that cannot be
grouped into packages of at least US$50,000 would be procured through local
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement under these procedures would
not, in aggregate, exceed US$300,000 equivalent (corresponding to about 10% of
the estimated total cost of furniture and equipment). In accordance with the
Central American Agreement, suppliers from the Central American Common Market
(CACM) countries would receive a preferential margin in bid evaluation equal
to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of imports, or 50% of the tariff payable by non-CACM
manufacturers, whichever is lower. Contracts for civil works (US$6.2 million)
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. The civil works are of
small size and scattered throghout the country, and El Salvador has a com-
petitive local construction industry. Therefore foreign contractors are not
expected to participate in the bidding, although they would not be prevented
from doing so. As stated, prequalification will take place to assess the
capability of contractors.
Maintenance
6.12      For proper and effective maintenance and operation of the project
facilities, the project unit would prepare a maintenance handbook and estab-
lish adequate procedures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that it would allocate funds for adequate maintenance and
repair of the buildings, furniture and equipment provided under the project.
Disbursement
6.13      The proposed loan of US$9.0 million equivalent to 71% of the total
project costs of US$12.7 million, would finance the foreign exchange component



- 27 -
of US$6.7 million and US$2.3 million (38%) of the local currency costs.
Retroactive financing not exceeding US$300,000 would be provided for expen-
ditures incurred from February 1, 1978.
6.14      The loan would be disbursed over a four year period (T-14).
Disbursement would be made against 50% of the total expenditures for civil
works and professional services; 100% of foreign expenditures for imports or
90% of the cost of locally procured equipment and furniture; and 100% of
expenditures for project unit salaries, the training needs survey and
technical assistance.



- 28 -
VII.   BENEFITS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Benefits
7.01      The major benefits of the project for the country would be to
improve workers' productivity and provide the urgently required middle and
lower-level manpower for the reorientation of the agricultural sector and
the industrial diversification of the economy. The project would also in-
crease employment and earnings of the poorer segment of the population,
thereby contributing to the equitable distribution of benefits accruing from
economic development. In the agricultural sector, some 9,600-12,000
farmers and rural workers and 250 agricultural technicians and professionals
would benefit from the project annually. In the industrial sector, annual
beneficiaries would increase from 1,800 to some 5,600 skilled, unskilled,
employed and unemployed workers. In addition, annually some 240 supervisors
and mid-management personnel and about 180 small-scale entrepreneurs would
benefit from the managerial training programs.
7.02      Earnings of those farmers and rural workers who undertake courses at
the rural training centers (RTC) are estimated to double within five years.
CENTA's research results indicate that the adoption of the intensive farm
management system (comprising inter-cropping and multiple-cropping methods)
alone would have doubled earnings of rural families in many instances. The
adoption of other advanced agricultural practices and livestock production
techniques would result in additional revenues. Earnings of the vocational
trainees would also almost double if they are successfully placed upon comple-
tion of the training courses. Since many trainees would be unemployed workers,
the increase in their earnings would be substantial. Although there are no
significant wage differentials among skilled workers at present, the introduc-
tion of trade tests and the certification system would create reasonable wage
differentials in the future, and these differentials would lead to a better
earnings profile over time for the trained workers. For further discussion
of the possible benefits and costs of the agricultural and industrial non-
formal training programs, see Annex 2.
Risks and Uncertainties
7.03      The proposed project would be subject to three major risks and un-
certainties. The first relates to the cooperation of public agencies dealing
with agricultural and industrial development. Effective implementation of the
project would be contingent on the cooperation of related public agencies,
particularly in the planning of training courses, selection of trainees, pro-
vision of instructors, implementation of the course and evaluation of courses
and trainees. To ensure such cooperation, the National Vocational Training
Council and its Technical Committee were established prior to loan negotia-
tions. Effectiveness of these entities should be monitored closely during
implementation. The second risk refers to the shortage of qualified staff
capable of introducing modern training techniques recommended in the project.
A rather extensive technical assistance program has been built into the
project to assist the local staff in coping with these tasks. Therefore,



- 29 -
early and effective implementation of the technical assistance program should
receive high priority and retroactive financing has been proposed for such
expenditures. The third risk is concerned with adequate provision for recur-
rent expenditures required for the effective operation of the project institu-
tions. The required funds represent a substantial increase in relation to the
current budgetary allocation for training. Therefore, assurances have been
obtained from the Government that it would provide adequate financing of the
recurrent expenditures. In the course of project implementation, budgetary
allocations to training institutions should be carefully monitored. In
addition, assurances were obtained that within two years of loan signing,
the Government would prepare legislation to establish an autonomous national
training agency and would take all necessary steps to make funds available for
the efficient operation of the agency.
7.04      Assurances were obtained from the Government that it would prepare
and send to the Bank for review a report providing a preliminary assessment of
the project, its results, and experience gained during implementation within
six months of the closing date of the loan account.



- 30 -
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(i) initiate the monitoring and evaluation system of the CENCAP's
training programs by September 30, 1978 (para 4.07);
(ii)  establish an in-plant training advisory unit in the
Ministry of Labor by June 30, 1979 (para 4.17);
(iii) create within the Ministry of Labor and under the direction
of the Manpower Department, planning and evaluation, and
operations divisions by June 30, 1979 (para 4.20);
(iv)  provide instructors of vocational training centers (VTCs)
and mobile training units with working conditions adequate
to assure the quality and continuity of such instructors
on the basis of annual studies to be made by the Technical
Committee (para 4.21);
(v) establish vocational training standards, testing, and certifi-
cation systems for recognized skilled occupations and guidance
and placement services by June 30, 1980 (paras 4.23 and
4.24);
(vi)  ensure that the VTCs and the National Productivity Center
(CENAP) will be located on the same site and share their
facilities (para 4.26);
(vii) evaluate annually the supervisory and small scale entrepreneur
training programs in consultation with employers' organizations
(para 4.28);
(viii)  employ specialists in key areas of the technical assistance
program by December 31, 1978 (para 4.29 and T-9);
(ix)  make sufficient and timely budgetary allocations to meet the
annual requirements for counterpart funds to implement the
project (para 5.05);
(x) prepare and submit to the bank for comment studies for the
establishment and operation of an autonomous national training
agency and take necessary steps to make funds available for the
efficient operation of the training programs by June 30, 1979
(para 5.06);
(xi)  ensure that the project unit develops and sends to the Bank
for review a detailed implementation schedule by
December 31, 1978 (para 6.03);



- 31 -
(xii) cause the project staff supported by necessary technical
personnel to review the architectural designs, equipment
and f rniture lists, and specifications and certify that
they meet economic and functional standards and costs
before submission to the Bank (para 6.04);
(xiii) acquire an option to purchase all sites in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 1978 and
complete the acquisition by June 30, 1979 (para 6.05);
(xiv) cause the project unit to obtain the services of physical
planning specialists by December 31, 1978 (para 6.08);
(xv) allocate funds for adequate maintenance and repair of the
buildings, furniture and equipment provided under the
project (para. 6.12); and
(xvi) cause the project unit to prepare and send to the Bank a
report providing a preliminary assessment of the project,
its results and experience gained during implementation
within six months of the closing date of the loan account
(para 7.04).
8.02      A special condition of effectiveness of the loan would be the
appointment of the project unit director, accountant and architect or engineer
(para 6.02).
8.03      The project constitutes a suitable basis for Bank loan of US$9.0
million to the Republic of El Salvador for a term of 20 years including a 5
year period of grace.
April 21, 1978






EL SALVADOR                                                         T-1
Agricultuaral and Industrial Training Pro lect
Educational Profile of the Labor Force 51976)
Years of Education
Illiterate and!or
Occupational Grouo              Total         Without Education      01 - 03  04 - 36  07 - 09  ,? - 12  13 - 16  17 ani over
1. Professionals          Numbers         54650                 772            1242       6225    8230    25986       ?je05    11'o90
Percentage      100.0                1.4             2.3       11.4    15.1      47.5      14.1       8.?
?,anager5 and          Numbers          4413                   0             100          0     233      1720       952     1 h03
e3ministrators         Percentage      100.0                   0             2.3          0     5.!.     39.0       21.5    31.-
3. Office Xorkers         uwnbers         6,,3'2              1,630            3776      9057   12935    31562        3459       833
Percentage      100.0                 2.6            6.o       1Lh3   20.4       49.9       s.5       1.3
4. Sales Workers          Numbers         162273             49,454           39704      47192   15306      9172      1326       115
Percentage      100.0                30.4           24.5        29.1      9.l,    5.7        .8         .1
5. Agricultural Wiorkers  Numbers        588232             350,012          152981      70691   10462      3258       Wi8       hlo
Percentage      100.0                59.5            26.0      12.0      1.8        .5        .1
6. Service Workers        Numbers         267496             60,703           59167    104877   33267       8808       674         0
Percentage      100.0                22. 7          22.1       39.2    12.!.       3.3        .0 o
7. Service Workers        Numbers        128631              38,765           34912      43738    8692      2524         0         0
Percentage      100.0                30.1           27.1       34.0      6.8       2.0         0        0
8. Never worked and       Numbers          18924              2,869            1737       5110    4253      4836       119         0
no skills              Percentage      100.0                15.2            9.2       27.0    22.5       25.5                  0 0
TOTAL     Numbers       1?87841             304,205          293612    286890   93353    87866    14653         7255
Percentage      100.0                39.1            22.       22.'      7.3       f.8       1.1
Source: ManDower Survey of 1975, Ministry of Planning and Coordination.



T-2
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Distribution of Arable Land by Type and Size of Farm
____________1961       __ _ _ _ _ _1971
Size of     No. of Farms  Total Area  Average Size  No. of Farmas Total Area  Average Size
Farm
(Hectares)  '000      %    1000 ha  %  Hectares        '000      %  '000 ha  %  Hectares
226.9  100.0  1581.4 100.0.       6.9      272.4  100.0 1463.9 10.C0    5-4
1 and less  107.0   47.1    61.4  3.9       0.6         132.9   48.8   70.6  4.8       0.5
1-9.9       100.1   44.2   284.8 18.0       2.8         119.6   43.9  329.8 -2.5       2.8
10-49.9      15.1    6.7   326.0 20.6    21.4            15.6    5.8  339.6 23.2    21.6
50-199.9      3.8    1.5   318.2 19.8    83.8             3.4    1.1  308.4 21.1    90.7
200 and ove   1.0    0-5   596.0 37.7   596.0             0.8    0.3  415.5 28.4   519.4
Source:  Agricultural Census 1961 and 1971.



T-3
EL SALVADOR
Agriculture and Industrial Training Project
Manpower Requirements by Occupational Group
('000 persons)
Skilled  Service   Agricul-   Office &  Professionals
& Semi-  and other   tural         Sales   Management &
I.   DEMAND                     Total    skilled  Workers   Workers    Workers   Adm. Workers
1. Absolute
1961                  766.3    125.0       90.3       463.8       65.5          21.7
1971               1,028.9    180.1    100.6          597.7      108.0          42.5
1981               1,539.8    292.6    308.0          623.5      231.0          84.7
2. (Percentage)
1961                 (100.0)   (16.3)   (11.8)        (60.5)     ( 8.5)         (2.8)
1971                 (100.0)    (17.5)    ( 9.8)      (58.1)     (10.5)         (4.1)
1981                 (100.0)    (19.0)    (20.0)      (40.5)     (15.0)         (5.5)
3. Average Annual Increase
1961-71                35.6       5.5      10.3        13.4        4.3           2.1
1971-81                51.1      11.3     20.7          2.6       12.3           4.2
4. Average Annual Attrition,
(1971-81)
(rate)                ( 2.5)     (2.3)    (2.6)        (2.6)      (2.0)         (2.0)
no.                   25.3       4.1       2.6        15.5        2.2           0.9
5. Total Average Annual Requirements
1971-81                76.4      1i a     23.3         18.1       14.5           5.1
(Percentage)        (100)        (20)     (30)        (24)        (19)          (7)
II.   SUPPLY
1. Average annual output of
Secondary School System                 2.4                              8.7            2.0
(1978-81)
-- industrial & vocational            2.4
-- agriculture                                                         0.3
-- fishery                                                             0.4
-- tourism                                                             0.1
-- health                                                              0.1
-- commercial                                                          3.4
-- pedagogic                                                                           .4
-- academic                                                            4.4
2. Higher Education                                                                        1.6
3. Proposed Project              17.5       6.0      --         12.0        0.2             __
4. Deficit to be Met
From Other Sources
(primary & others)                      7.0    23.3           6.1        5.6           3.1
5. Total Average Annual
Supply, 1971-81              76.4      15.4    23.3          18.1       14.5            5.1
Source: Ministries of Planning and Coordination and Education, and mission estimates.



T-4
ARATIVE EOUCATION INDICATORS                                                         P-1
............................
I APRIL L9,L978 I
................. .
----------------------------------------------- - -- - -  ----- ------
GNP/    I GNP        TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                                     :PRI.  AV.PRI.                             :SEC
:CAPITA: DEVOTED:PUBLIC    EDUCATION    zLl7ER-    PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
-  AT   : TO EOU.:  EXP.   RECURRENT    :ACY              :ENROLL:TlON          OENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENFOLL:DENTS:ENROLL:
:MARKET: (PU8LIC:OEVOTED;EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER   :RELATION :FROM PRI. :RATIO :PER  :RATIO :
POP. :PRICES: EXP.            To    :       TO:       :tt OF   : NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ ,TO SEC.                 NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.: IOSSI: ONLVI            FOU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTSI: (21  :CYCLE(t)'.EP                  CAPITA         4%)        (S)  :ER         (t)
(1)      (2)       (31        (4)           (5)          (6)       (7)       18)       (9)      (101        111)      :(121  :(131 :1141
------- - --- - - -------------- - ----------------- - --- --------------------------------------------------------------------
ADVANCED
AUSVRIA           74    7.5F 4,87OF        5.3Y    8.5EY  24Y  51Y   15Y    99            98        930        260       2.00       990        510      190    16.85Y
CANAUA            72  22.JF 6,93OF         7.7    19.4       30    38    19      98       89        ga        24         2.0        99         S2      17        9.00
GERMA14Y F.PEP.75  61.8  6,670             4.2    14.2       31EY 31EY 19EY  99           91C       99C       23EY       ...        99C        9tc     zzc    20.26Y
JAPAN             75 LII.6  4,450          4.3E  20. 7E    40UY 37UY IIUY  99             990       99C       25         2.OB       99C        95xy    20C    24.69Y
NETHEIZLANDS    74   13.7F 5.75OF          7.9Y  15.LY    32    45    19         99       95C       95C        29C       3.0C       97C        73C      20C    11.00
NEW ZEALAND    73    J.IF 4,28OF           5.2    ...        39    24    29      99       99        99        26                    99        67        19     Z4.00
NORWAY            74    4.0F 6,76OF        7.0    15.2       48Y  22Y   13Y    99        102XY      98        20         1.9        99         9DXY    14      21.31Y
SWEDEN           74    8.2F 8,15OF         7.9Y  13.9Y    3BY  13Y  13Y    99             99C       99C       17C        ...        goc        85C      IOC    30.OOC
U.K.              12  56. OF 3,78OF        6.3    12.7       26    39   22       98       99        ...        26        2.o        ...        63       17      11.00
U.S.A.            12 213.5F 7, L2OF        6.0    15.4       ...  73** 27        99       99        99         25U       2.0        ...        93       Iqu    29.00
EUROPE
GREECF            76    9.1  2,590         2.6    10.4       37   26    21       868      99        820       31       2.0          70E        so      27      15.00
IRELAND          74    3.1F 2,39OF         5.1.   13.90   43Y  41Y   L14Y    90          IOBXY      99A       35       ...          95A       65XV    19       15.47Y
PCRTUGAL          75   9.6   1,570         4.4    17.8       52    27    13      70       98        55        21       3.0          10         29       14       7.60
ROMANfA           75  21.2  1.240          4.0      6.4      36    19    13      98       ioix                21       ...          98         49      22      10.00
SPIN             14  35.3F 2,73OF         2.&B   15.2A   49Y  22Y   15Y    94A    tl5XY                      354                   ...        7axy    30      17.68Y
AFRICA
A L GE P I A      77  16.9       99OG      7.5    14.3FY  42    ...  21          35       78X       45         39        4.0        55         26X      13       6.00
BENIN            74    3.1f    13OF        7.2N   36.OY    47D  230   IOD    ILD          44XY      zoo       53Y      25.08        1,38       ilxy    396      O.Tlby
BOTSWANA          76    0. 7     41U       4.0    19.2       53    20    14       3       72X       95         32        3.0        60         12       22       0.30
BUPUNDI           74    3.TF    11OF       2. 5    19.9Q    47R  41R   12R    10          2OX       30?       38       10.0         14          2X      LO       1.0
CAMEROON          73    7.4F    28OF       5.9    20.0       38Y  29Y  I IY    ...        74        ...        51DY    ...          ...         9       23CY    U.90CY
C.A.P.            74    1.8F    22OF       3.UD   17.00   568  198  ...    ...            79xy      25         69Y      ...          18         8xy    27BY    0.21Y
CHAD              75    4.0      120       3.0    10.0       78   22  ...        15       29XBY    30         65BY    15.0            8         2XBY  30         0.0loy
CONG') I 8 1      74    1.3F    51OF       6.0    19.3       40    32   2L       50?    133X        63         63        6.0        48         33X      22       3.40
EGYPT             74  37.2F    26OF        5.3      ...      29    36   24       40       74X       45        40       ...          64         39X     28      1 L . 00
ETHIOPIA          76  28.0       100       2.6    15.8       28   25    10        7       21       ...        50                    63          8      34        ...
GABJN             74    0.5F 2,54OF        5.00  20.60    250    9D   ILD    ...    IOOY            2sc        46C       S.0        18A        31Y      21C      0.29Y
GAMBIA            -     1. 5     170       3.3    11.5       46    25      6     10       27        90         33       ...         92         13       25        ...
GHANA             74    9.9F    59OF       ...    19.7y    43Y  22Y  20YO                 6OXY      628        30Y     ...          148        35XY    16CY    1.09Y
GUINFA            76    4. 7     180F-    4.3NQ ...          30    31   30                3ox       64        45         12F        86         13X      26       4.00
IVORY C"Asl    74    6.7F    54OF          6.1    24. 7      38Y   37Y  18Y       9A      86XY      STA       45Y      ...          ...        IIXY    25C      1.64Y
KENY4             76  13.6       24 0      5.9    26.0       67    2 3   to      40       SO?       fso?       34        6.0        30         16       2r       1.0
LESOTHO           75    1.2      1 60     12.OP   23.0       49    18   20       40       85        50        52         7.ON       81         10       26       1.00
LIBERIA           75    1.5      410       2.4    13.2       27    15   20       73       58        ...       35         2.0        ...        12      26        1.10AY
MADAGASCAP        74    8.81,   20OF       3.2    22.1       51   24    25       40       68X       30        63       15.0         48          9x      26       1.00
MALAwl            76    5.2      140       2.4    10.0       42    18   23       25       56EX      17        52         2.4        70          4EX    20        0.26CY
MALI              75   5. 7F      9OF      4.2M  33.OF   45F  37F  18F    LOF             22XF                 48F     9.5F         5OF         6X      21        ...
MAURITANIA        71    1. 31-   32OF      4.Ly  2O.OY    ...  ...  ...    IOA            17xy                22A        ...        ...         3XY    24A       ...
MAURITIUS         76    0.91   6 8 0       4.7    12.1       50    26      6     eoc      94        99         i4        4.5          90       45       32       1.50
MORICCO           74   16.71    47OF       5.OC   16-                      9     26?      54X       21         37                   31         13X      21       2.00
NIGERIA           74   75. 01-   34OF      4.LDY 24.2UY  23Y  16Y  42Y    ...             49xy      ...        340Y      ...        ...        IOXY    20CY    0.48Y
RWANDA            73   4.IF    IOOF        3.2C  28.01)   ...  ...  ...    23             52         ...       51        ...        ...         2       13       0.23CY
SENEGAL           74    5. OF    36OF      4.ONS 22.5DR  5SPY 42RY ...    ioc             53XY      ...       46CY       ...        ...        IIXB    258       2.02Y
SIEPRA LEONE  73    3.OF    20OF           3.4    23.4       31    36    30      15?      34X       45        32         4.OE       68         13X     21        0.53BY
SOMALIA           75    3.2      ILO       3.7Q   10.8Q   49Q   160  19Q    50?           34X       86        35       10.0         60          3       15       0.10
SUDAN             74  15.6F    2 7 Of:    8.OY   I5.OY    43C   29C  28C    15C           4OXY      75C       39Y        4.OC       25C        IIXY    20C       1.45Y
SWAZILAND        75    0.5      47o        3.8      ---      38    31   19       so       73        71        38         3.8        51         24      22        L.00
TANZANIA          74   14.7F    17OF       5.IN  17.0        36    ...  12       63       44X       ...       49         ...          7         2       21C      0.30
TUNISIA           73    5.6F    13OF       6.3    23.4       37   43    18       55       72        81        41         6.0        32         14      21        3.00
UGANDA            75  11.6       230       3.4DY 15.70Y  34EY 40EY 22EY  25A              53XV                 34EY      ...         14A        6XCY  ZIA        0.56Y
UPPER VOLTA    74    6.OF    11OF          4.0    23.9       59    18      9       SC     14XY                 46Y      I8.OC       20C         2XY    23C       0.15Y
ZAIRE             73  24.7F    14OF        5.2CN 21.3C    54C  17C  29C    is             63        38         4LCY      6. 0       43          a       24       0.96BY
ZAMBIA            76    5.1      440       6.8    15.9       54    22   22       39       97X       so         49        7.0        21         16       23       1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARISBEAN
-----------------------------
COSTA RICA       75    2.0      960        5.28  22.78    576  258  12B    896    109xv             658        298       3.08       SOB        52XY    250    17.15Y
_OMINICAN REP.72    4.?F    72OF           3.0    L3.9       b28   24    22      51       90        17        54         3.00       63         13.5    24        7.00
EL SALVADOR    76  4            49               2                                        1       ;;.        39CY      ;:;        39                  21CY    4.358Y
3    6-                                                       t                           35                    69                 25       4.09Y
GUATEMAL4                 3    5TOP               I .700    55    2 7   1    6  F                                                         2VF
HAITI             7 6    4. 7    200       1.0      8.0      61   21   11        20B      25F       13         56U       3.o        62          4                 0.7
HONDURAS          7 5    2.9     39OG      4.2G   18.BG    62G   15G   19G    53          78        30         3 5       3.0        68         11       17       4.00
JAMA ICA          74    2.OF 1,11OF        7.1Y  20. 2Y    39Y  32Y  19Y    86           itixv      ...        39Y       ...         ...       54XY    19C       6.68DY
MExICO            75  59.9  1,050          3.10Q L2.000  51Y  26Y   12Y    76            L12XY       3L        46        3.0        63         35XY    23A       8.97EY
,ICARAGUA        74    2.1F    70OF        2.5    14.2      61    13    13       57       65        21        37        2.0         93         17      24        7.00
fRINIOAD & T. 76    1.00 1,875E            3.4N  10.8Q    50E  25E   L3E    90C            81       93        34         2.09       49        44       25         ...
,3UTH A4EPICA
LIVIA          76    5. 8     315F      5. 0    17.5F    ... ...   ...    38            ITB       290       24        5F          ...         48     ISO
AZIL           75 107.0  1,030           5.0    12.4      42E  20E    37E  64A          86G                 27CY                  ...        26G     15cy    ;:;OB
HILE            75  10.3       990        3.8RY 12. 5PY  23Y  IOY  50Y    ...    119xv                        35Y                  ...        48XY    ...    16.55Y
)LOMBIA         74  23.6F    5dou         3.3DY 2L.20Y  440Y 22BY 11Y    73             105XY      20        33Y        4.0        90         36XY    14A      6.67Y
'UADOR          75    7.1      590       3.70   27.7C                          69      102XY                 38C                   ...       38XY    14C       ...
,JYANA          74    O.Or    51OF        5.8N   14.7Q   47   35    14          83A      92X       39         33        6.0         19        62X      24       1.00
4RAGLJAY        74    2. 6F    58OF      1.8    11.0       s    13    22       81       82        Z6       'AG        1.9         65         17      12        5.00
75  15.4       760       4.2DY 21.70Y  40V  22Y  15Y    72             IIL 1 xv    38        39DY      3.0         TO        4exy    230Y   14.41Y
RUGUAY          75    2.8  L .300         2.5    15.3       46    34    20      94       93X        ...       24                    83        ...      10       ...
FNEZUELA        73   12.OF 2,28OF         4.6    19.9       30C   ZSQ  350    77A        81        ...        33        2.4         ...       33       ...    12. 63C Y



T-4
P-2
CCM4PARATIlYE EDUCATION INDICATORS  (CaNTO)
4APRIL L9,1978 1
~~~~~~~~ ---------------    - ------------------                     ---------
*   GNP/   I GNP  :t  -TCAL:2  OF PUBLIC 2:                              :PRI. :AV.PRI.  2:SEC  :
:CAPITA: DEVCiED:PU9L1C 2ECUCATION   :LITER-   P RI. ICOMPLE- :STU- iSCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-t SEC. :ST))- :
*      AT    TO EUG.:  FTP.   RECURRENT    :ACY    tENROLL:TION           :DENTSSSALARY IN:ION RATE SENROLLi:ENTS:HIGHER:
IMARKET: fPU8LIc:oEvrTE0:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER  IRELATION :FROM PRI.:,RATIO :PER  :ENROLL.
POP. :PRICE'~: EXP.        I) ]        TO:       :IX OF  : NET  :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.  :NET  :TEACH- RATIO:
YR:4ILLS.: (IiSSA  OkLY)       LOU. :RRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS)I (XI  :CYCLEIXI:ER            CAPITA  i  (21       : ()  :ER        42)
11) ::('1    434           44)         452      2  61     (7)  :(8)           (9)  . (10)    :  11)    :112)  :6131 :1414 
ASIA AND ~CEANJIA
AFGHANISTAN   74  I3.TF   isof..                      39P  23P  16P   10        26K      24        41       5.0       i8        ax    21       1.00
BANGLAUESH      7 3  78.6F    90)     1.21  20.2    N4Y  22Y  21Y   23D    56K           ...      48D       ...       ...      23XD   28
CHINA(TAIWdAN) 7 3  16.01'  93C7      3.2   14.0      2 8   41   Z2    82       98C      94        40      14.0       84       Aic    26    20.OOC
IND1IA          7 5 608.1    14,0    2.6VY  ...       ... .... 298    65XV    ...                 43A       ..        ..       29KV   2OAY   2.34EY
I NDON4 S I I.  74 132.11)  Z2)F    3.9F~ 11.34f   b9   21   10    608    79K            43       30       i.OG       52       19K     14      2.00
IRItAN         7 3  33.41' 1,6,0F     3.3   12.6    SoB  LeB  12B   50          77       74A      32        5.08      BOA      24      32      4.32CY
IRAQ            75  11.1  1, 2SO      b. C  lo. 30F..... ... 26C    93XV    ...                    22       ..        ...      35XY   26C      8.47Y
JORDAN4         73   2.7&   4.EUF     7.0    8.R    52   1s   21    59          91K      76       38        5.0       84       50K     22      '.00
KOREA           75  3s. 3  ~6         2.9   16.JR   65   33    2    920   104X           98       52        3.5       77       55K    38       7.8
LEBANONI        72   3.?2F 1, '~73I   ~.5   i8.0    39   40   10    68          86       65        19       2.0       63       26U    25    23.00
MALAYS[!        74  I2.3F   7bO0F    o.4   '8.2    44   31   11    60C    96F            90        32       4.00      83F      44F    27F    3.OOF
NEPAL           76  12.6F   IO 1D .1   10.0    Z9   20   41    19               59       28        31       2.3       64       14      24      0.8
OMAN            72   0.8F 2,300)      1.7N    3.8    96    -   -        20      24X      99       33        7.0       ...      0.4X    9
PAKISIAt.       15  69.2    160       1.6   16.2    45   25   18    21          47X      50        39       2.0                17 IY   18      6.00
PAPIJA N.G,.    75   2.8    47C0      5.6   16.1    38   16   24    32          57?      73P       31      11.0       90       1'A?   24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES    74  42.2F'   30 F    2.5   14.9    73   15   12    87    104Ko            ...       34      15.0       ...      *..     ...   21.00
SINGAPnRE       74   Z. 3F 2 '.,~F    2.7Y   9.2Y    39Y  39Y  17Y   75A   109XY    72A           31.Y      ...       99A      '.AY   24       7.6BY
SYPIA           76   7.4    7 3.)     3.6   6.9       39   25   26    53        89       TO        25       2.0       92               21    12.00
THAILAND        73  41.9F   31~ F     4.ONF 20.7F   65    9   15    82          87K      93C       32       3.0 U    91C       1K    24       2.00
TURKE-Y         73  40.2F   'lOOF    5.6CY 20.6CY.... ...                ...    85Y      ...       34Y      ..         ..      24Y     27DY   5.83Y
YEMEN           73   5.91    2JuF    0.5    4.0    45P  21P  23P   10           15X      18        36       5.         5        2K    19       0.05BY
'vE4rFN. P.J.;.  74  11.7F  _21,F    3.5BY 10.98Y  79   12               t0     T8Y       31       30Y     10.0       99        19Y    20       0.67Y
SUMMARY FOR 0, VELOPING CU,.,TRIES:
NUMBER OF C-JNTRIES:                  82    77       77   74   73    76        84       59        84         56      63       83      s0        74
RANGE:                             (0.5-  43.8-  (25- (5-  (2-   (3-         (10-    (13-      (19-       (1.9-    (7-      (.4-   I(9-      (.01-
12.0 4 33.0)   96 ) 47)  41)   98)    133X)   99 2    69 I    25.0 I   99)                80  1  39)   23.0)
QUARTILES:UPPER :5.1   20.9    54   31   22    73                             a8       76       46          7       83       29      26      6.0
MEDIAN:                  4.0   16.2    45   23   IT    50          72       55       37         4       63        16      23      2.5
LOWER :                  2.9   12.3    38   18   12    20          48       30       32         3       43         8      20       .9
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE               A-1970 OR BEFORE           M.CURRENT PRICES                        SOURCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1971                         N-GOP
7  QUESTIONAB4LE                  C-1972                      P'.INCLUDINC. FOREIGN AIO                COLUMNS:1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS D=1973                         Q-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                        OR IBRD MISSIONS
*$COMBINED WITH PRtIMARY          E=1974                     R.MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
**UNDER REVilEW                   F.1975                      S-MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                 AND/DR UNESCO
G=1976                     T.EKCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                  STATISTICAL
U-PUBLIC ONLY                                              YEARBOOK
V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
K.INCLUDING OVERkAGED STUDENTS
V-UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYStEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS IAND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DA1A. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERtAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS UPERATIO,NAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
I11"EDUCATION.- AS OEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
t2)PPRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TI) EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY" EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE IE.'~. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRtICULTURAL) 
131"LITERACY AATES"(COL.61 ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCDUJNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS-
DOUBTFUL THATOANY UNIFCRM DEFINITION OF "LITERATE" HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
141 PUBLIC EXPENDI TURE IN EDUCATION"ECOLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPE4DITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(5W"ENROLLME-NT RATIOS"I(COLS 7. 12 AND 141 REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDRtEN ENROLLED FULL-TIM4E
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCH43L, PIJRLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVEL74PING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(II.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERtAGED STIJOENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATFD  BY
FOOTNC'TES ALSO CAN INi-LAtE THL PATIOS.



T-5
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Emplovment of Agricultural Prnfs-einnals. qnmi Trbhni_ians, iQh7
Employing Agency                   University Level                   Non-university
Agriculture/Animal  Veterinary Post-Secondary   Bachiller
Husbandry"orestry    Science       (Azr6nomo)        Aricola
I.  Ministry of Agriculture
- CENTA:
Extension                            21                 _               254 2/         30
Research                             90                 -                47              -
- Livestock Development (DGG)            25                 41               55             8
- Natural Resources (DGRNR)              22                 -                 28           38
- Irrigation (DGRD)                      15                  -               15              -
- Education & Training (CENCAP)          11                  2               12              3
- Agricultural Economics (DEA)            2                                    8           15
- Quaraatine Deot.                        1                  2                24           10
II. Public Autonomous Institutions
- Central Bank                            5                  -                 -             -
- Agricultural Bank (BFA)                L2                   -             153              _
- Agrarian Transformation Inat.(ISTA)lJ 9                    -                30             -
- Regulation of Agric.Supplies
Institute (IRA) 1J                    9                  -               24             _
- Coffee Research Institute(ISIC) 1/   15                     -                5             -
- Mortgage Bank of El Salvador            5                  -               19              _
III. Ministry of Education
- Adult Education                         -                   -                -            2
- Secondary Education                     1                  -               32             _
IV. National University of El Salvador
- Faculty of Agricultural Sciences       60                  -                -
V. Private Sector
- Federation of Savings and Credits
Coops (FEDECASES)                     -                  -                3
- Foundation for the Promotion of
Co-Ops. (FUNPROCOOP)                  1                  -                4 
- Federation of Credits
(FEDECREDITO)                         1                  -               16             _
- Various Commercial Institutions        36                  3               45             -
- Self-employment and Farming  1                           12               50             -
Total: 1,331                   341                 60              824           106
1J Estimates
2/   Excludes 85 extension workers for home improvement.
Source: TRBD Mission.



T-6
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Output of Vocational Training Programs, 1975
Training Program                             Enrollment   Output
Apprenticeship (theory Course)                  361          56
Automechanics                                 219          39
Radio & Television                            142          17
Accelerated Training                          1,560         804
Hairdressing & Cosmetics                      107          49
Sewing & Dressmaking                          466         219
Cooking                                        96          38
Radio                                          25          12
Welding                                       150          43
Industrial Sewing                              90          80
Bricklaying & Concrete Making                  56          28
Carpentry & Cabinet Making                     38          23
Sheet Metal Working                            48          19
Drawing                                       124           6
Tailoring                                      12          11
Flower Arrangnent                             130         114
Bakery                                        115          80
Haircutting                                    72          54
Tractor Maintenance                            31          28
Upgrading                                       131          72
Production Supervisors                         42          24
General Mechanics                              42         22
Welding                                        23           7
Tractor Maintenance                            31          19
Total                                       2052          32
Source: Manpower Department of the Ministry of Labor



T-7
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial TraininR ProJect
Training Needs of Technical -=aff in public end
Autonomous Agricultural Institutions 1976 and 1982
A) Number of the staff.
Existing; Force (1976)             Projected Additional Force in 1982           Grand
Type of                University  Agr6nomo  Bachiller  Total   University   Agr6nomo  Bachiller  Totsl   Teta'
Ma.ior Activity           Level      Level    Agrfcola    (i)         Level        Level    Agrfcola    (ii)   (i) + (ii)
Extension                    21      310          38         369       12            200        60        272        641
Education                    14h      44           2          60       15             20        20         55         115
Credit                       12      153           -         165        8             75        40        123        288
Other Activities            301      199          66         566       75             70        60        205        771
Total     v        706         106       1,60       110            3'        18        655       1,815
B)  Training Needs (See Assumption below)
Extension                    10      250          38         298       10            200        60        270        568
Education                    14       44           2          60       12             20        20         52         112
Credit                        6      153           -          79        4             75        40        119        198
Other Activities             60      100          52         212       2                         8        106        316
92                                                               1,276
First phase of the training plan: 5-year period
Number of participants per year t 250
Assumption:
That the folloFwing proportion of the 1976 force and 1982 additional force will
need training.
Type of Activity       University   Agronomo    Bachiller
Level (%ve    level (%)   Agricola (%)
Force:        1976   1982  1976  1982  1976   1982
Extension               50      80    80   100   100    100
Education              100    100   100   100   100    100
Credit                  20      50   100   100      -    100
Other                   20      20    50    50    80       80
1/ Based on information on the demand of institutions, past force
growth and future supply.
2/ Excludes university staff.



T-8
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Output of the Proj;ect Vocational Training Programs, 1981
APPRENTICESHIP                 ACCELERATED TRAINING                UPGRADING TRAINING
OCCUPATIONAL           San       Sqn      Santa  Total  San         San    |Santal Total  San         I San     Santa  Total
GROUP              Salvador| Miguel  Ana             Salvador| Miguel  Ana  I           Salvadorl Miguel| Ana
A. Construction:
1. Bricklaying                 10         5        5      20      40         2O      20     > o40              20       20      80
2. Concrete Finishing forms  10           5        5      20      20         20      20     60       40        20       20      80
3. Carpentry and Cabinet
Making                    10        10      10       30      40         40     40    120        40        40       40    120
4. Plumbing                    10        10               20      40         40      40    120       40        40       40    120
5. Painting-Decorating         -         -         -       -      40         -       -      40       -         -        -       -
B. Mechanical:
1. General Mechanics           10        -         -      10      40         -       -      40       40                 -     40
2. Auto Mechanics              10        -         -       10     40         -       -      40       14        -        -      40
3. Auto body Mechanics -
Finishing                 -         -         -      -       40         -      -       40       -
4. Agricultural Mechanics    -           10        10      20     -          40      20      60      -         -        40    40
5. Marine Engine Mechanics   -           10        -       10     -          40      -      40       -         40       -      40
6. Refrigeration - Air Cond  -           10        10      20     40         4o      40    120       -         40       40    80
7. Industrial Maintenance    10          -         -       10     -          -       -       -       40        -        -      40
8. Light Machine Maint.        10        -         -       10     40         -       -      40       40                 -      40
9. Heavy Machine Maint.        -                                  40         -       -      40       -
10. Textile Machine Maint.    -                                    40         -       -       40      -
11. Welding                     -         _         _       _      40         -       -      40       -
C. Electrical:
1. Electrical Installation   10           5         5     20      20         20      20     60       40        20       20    80
2. Electrical Maint. (Indus  10           5         5      20     20         20      20     60       40        20       20    80
3. Electric Motor Repair       10        -         -       10     40         -       -      40       40        -        -      40
4. Electric Appliance Repai  10          10        10      30     40         40      40    120       40        40       40   120
5. Automotive Electric Rep.  -           -         -       -      40         -       _      40       -         _        _      _
6. Radio-Television            -         -         _       _      40         -       -      40       40                        40
D. Snecial:
1. Industrial Sewing           -         -         _      _       80         80     80    240        80        80       80   2140
2. Petailing-Window Dressin  -           -         _      _       40         -       -      40       40        -        -     14o
3. Advertising Design          _         _         _      _       40         -       -      40       40        -        -     40
E. Mobile Units:
1. Agricultural Mechanics
2. Maintenance Sugar Ind.                                                                           240       240    240    720
3. Maintenance Fishing Ind.                                                                         240        -       -     240
4. Maintenance Textile Ind.                                                                          -        240      -     240
5. Maintenance Electrical I i.                                                                      240        -       -     240
6. Maintenance Coffee Ind.                                                                          240        -       -     240
7. Maintenance Cotton Ind.                                                                           -         -      240    240
8. Maintenance Food Ind.                                                                            240        -      240    240
TOTAL (5660)                                260                              1600                              3800



T-9
LL SALVaDOR
Agrioultural and Industrial Training Project
Technical Assistance Program
Area of                    Mo. of       Man-           1978           1979            1980           1981          Estimated
Specialitx                 persons      months    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  L    1  2  3  4    L2  3  4L    Cost - US$'000
AKricultural Training
1. Specialists
C(i  plannineg&evaluation  2             28                 x    x  x  x  x         x   x   x  x    x              128.0
(ii  communications           1           12                                x    x  x  x  x    x                     55.0
Ciii) In-service Trg.          1            6                                      x               x                   28.0
(iv) Rural Training           1           18                             x  x    x  x  x  x                          82.5
(v  Farm Management          1           12                      x  x            x              x                   55.0
(vi) Marketing & Agro. Ind. 2              8                             x           x                               42.0
Subtotal      8           84                 3                        46            7               390.5
2. Fellowship
(i) 4&r. Education & Trg.  1             12                      x  x            x  x                               15.0
(ii) Farm Management          1           12                                      x  x                               15.0
(iii) Agro. Ind.               1           12                                             x  x    x  x                15.0
(iv) Home 7,conomics          1            6                             x  x                                         8.0
(v) Communication            2           16                      x  x  x  x    x                                    22.0
(vi) Rural sociology          1           12                             x  x    x  x                                15.0
Subtotal      7           70            -             36              28            6                90.0
Industrial Training
1. Specialists
(i) Planning, mgt. budgt.  1             30                 x    i  i  x  x    x  xx  x    x                       137.5
(ii) Occupational analysis  1             12                             x  x    x  x                                55.0
(iii) Trg. standards, test
& certification         1           24                x            x  x    x  x  x  x    x  x                 110.0
(iv) £ouipment specialist   1              9                             x        x                                  41.2
Cv) Teacher trg. & course
development             2           24                             x  x    x  x                              110.0
x  xx  x
(vi) In-plant training        1           24                             x  it    x  x  a  S       x 5              110.0
(vii) Employment Services    1              24                      x  x  x  x    x  xix  x                          110.0
(viii) Trg. needs survey        2           12               x x    x  x                                               55.0
Sub-total   10           159               12         57             75           15                728.7
2. Fellowship
Ci) Planning & l-valuation  2             6                                      x     x                            10.0
Cii) Standards, tost.         2            6                                      x     x                            10.0
(iii) Instructor training   12             72                       x  x  x  x    x  xx  x    x  x  x  x             120.0
(iv) Induistrial liaison      2            14                                           x        x                    8.0
(v) Voc. guidance &
placement               3            9                                            x  x    x                   12.0
(vi) Directors of centers   3              6                                x           x        x                   10.5
Subtotal    24            103                         26             47            30              170.5
Managemen   Trainin
1. Specialists
(i) Entrepreneur training   1            12                      x  x  :  x                                        55.0
(ii) Supervisory training   4             48                      x  x  x  x    x  x  x  x
x  x    Sx  x  x    x  x                  220.0
Subtotal       2           60                          30              24            6              275.0
2. Fellowship
(i) Department heads         7           10.5                           x  x    x  x                               10.8
Subtotal      7           10.5                         2                                            10.8
Iroei,ct Administration
1. Specialist in P4ycical                                  x    x  x  x
Planning                3            12                3         9                                            55.0
GRAMD TOnPAT,   6/s          499               16        191             226          64            1,720.5
Spc-cialist     20           315               18        124             145          28            1,449.2
Fellowship      38           184                -        h7               81          36              271.3



T-10
EJ. SALVADOR
Agiutrland Industrial TriigProject
Project Coat Estimates
(in '0100)
(US$1.00=02.50)
GENERAL               SITE WORKS               -CONSTRUCTION    I                        EQUIPMENT                           TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & SERVICES                               TOTAL
Staff                                            Proff                              Trg, Needs       Proj.
No. Places   Area__ M21                       Adenic   boacdl4g i     Hoi9R   To 1al         Furoiture   Equipment        Feea   2.6e&t46   _11eSLO!1E                                     - Admin,    59003  US$o0o
1.  Ministry of Agriculture                       360         7,226             596.4           1,823.6      944.0       328.3   3,095.9        335.4       1,452.6       479.4   976.3          225.0                                    7,161.0   2,864.3
1.  Rural Training Centers (CENCAP)            320        6,240            493.9           1,460.8      685.7        328.3   2,474.8        284.4      1,268.6       385.4                                                           4,907.1    1,962.8
1.I  Texistepaque                          40                           60.7             179.4       84.2        40.3      303.9         38,7        155.8        47.3                                                             606.4       242.5
1.2  Tataquc                                40                          59.6             176.2       82.7        39.6      298.5         38.1        153.0        46.5                                                             595.7       238.3
1    Santan Cr     rrillo                  40                           60.1             177.8       83.5        39.9      301.2         33.4        154.4        46.9                                                             596.0       238.4
1.3  Ahusohapass629                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.
1.4  GNuaccecii                            40                           62.8             185.8       87.2        41.8      314.8        34.9         161.4        49.0                                                             622.9       249.2
1.5  Usulutan                              40                           60.1             177.8       83.0        39.9      301.2        33.4         154.4        46.9                                                             196.0      238.4
1.6  Nueva Conceprien                      40                           62.8             185.8       87.2        41.8      334.8         34.9        163.4        49.0                                                             622.9       249.2
1.7  Santa Rosa De Limo                    40                           63.9             189.0       88.7        42.5      320.2         35.5        164.1        49.9                                                             633.6       253.4
1.8  La Union                              40                           63.9             189.0       88.7        42.5      320,2         35.5        164.1        49.9                                                             633.6       253.4
2.  In-service Training Centers (CENCAP)    40              986             102.5            362.8      258.3                   621.1        51.0        184.0         94.0                                                          1,052.6       421.0
3.  Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                                      976.3          225.0                                   1,201.3       480.5
II,  Ministry of Labor                              920       14,0o1           1,089.7          5,594.8                            5,594.8       395.4      3,166,9        866.9 1,821.8          426.3           75.7                    13,439.5   5,375.8
1.  Vocational Training                        920        12,894,
1.1  San Salvador                         560        6,448             464.2           2,321.3                           2,321.3        172.5     1,345.5        362.1                                                           4,665.6   1,866.2
1.2  Santa Ans                             220       2,989             230.2           1,151.3                           1,151.3        80.5         625.8       179.6                                                           2,267.4       906.9
1.3  San Miguel                            240       3,459             278.9           1,394.6                           1,394.6        94.8         683.3       217.5                                                           2,669.1    1,067.6
1.4  Mobile Units                                                                                                                                    292.0                                                                         292.0       116.8
2.  Training Development
2.1  Manpower Department                             1,155             116.4             727.6                             727.6         47.6        220.3       109.7                                                           1,221.6      488.7
2.2  Survey of Training Needs                                                                                                                                             137.5                         75.7                       213.2        85.3
3.  Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                                    1,684.3          426.3                                   2,110.6       844.3
III,  Ministryof_Econpmy                             160         1,309
1.  CENAP                                      160        1,309             132.2            824.6                              024.6        40.2        142.0       124.3                                                           1,263.3      505.3
2.  Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                                      687.5           27.0                                     714.5       285.8
IV.  Project Administration
1.  Salaries and Equipment                                                                                                                                57.5                                                          645.0          702.5      281.0
2.  Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                                      137.5                                                    137.5       55.0
Base Costs                                                       1,818.3          8,243.0       944.0       328.3   9,515.3        771.0      4,819.0    1,472.6 3,623.1            678.3           75.7        645.0      23,418.3   9,367.3
Contingenciesl
Physical Increases                                                 181.9            824.3        94.4        32.8     951.1         77.1        481.9       147.3   362.3            67.9           7.6         64.5        2,342.0      936.8
Price Increases                                                    495.1          2,261.1       259.9        78.0   2,599.0        188.0      1,200.2       380.2          897.1                   10.2        126.2        5,896.0   2,358.4
Total Cost
(including contingencies)                                       2,495.3          11,328.4   1,298.3         439.1  13,065.6    1,036.1        6,501.1    1,999.1        5,628.7                    93.2        835.7       31,655.0  12,662.0
Foreign Currency Cests
(as b of total cost)                                                50                                                27             45         95            9            95                      10           10           53          53






T-ll
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Unit Capital Costs of New Project Institutions (US$)
Gross area                              Cost per Student Place or House
in M2 per      Cost per      Construction
stud. place    M2 of cons-  and Site
Category                or house        truction     Development   Furniture   Equipment   Total
1. Academic and Communcal Facilities
a. Rural Training Centers              11.12        205           2,191          241         1,585       4,017
b. In-Service Training Center          11.52        252  2        3,382          130  3/       272 L/  3,784
c. Vocational Training Centers(VTC)  14.02          152           2,54o          151         1,155       3,846
d. National Productivity Center         8.185/      252  - /      2,390          100           310      2,800
(CENAP)
2. Boarding
a.  Rural Training Centers              5.88        200           1,028          114            -       1,142
b.  In-Service Training Center         10.25         252  -       3,009          250            -        3,259
3. Staff Housing
a.  Rural Training (Headmaster)        60.o0        164          11,808            -            -      11,808
b.  Rural Training (Janitor)           40.00        164           7,872                         -        7,872
1/ Average of all 8 centers.
2/ High costs are due to 2-story buildings
3/ Excluding offices.
I/ Equipment estimated at US$13,600 for teaching area.
5/ Includes all CENAP office space.



EL SALVADOR                                            T-12
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Contingency Allowances
(Thousand Colones)
Total Cost     Physical       Sub-      Price           Total       Total cost
without        Increases      Total    Increases        Contin-    including
Contingencies  Amount   (%)  Cost       Amount  (%      gencies    Contingencies
1. Construction            11.333.6       1,133.4 (10)12,467.0   3.094.1 (25)   4,227.5         15,561.1
Local                  7.569.9         757.0       8,326.9   2,777.8 (33)   3,534.8         11,104.7
Foreign                3,763.7         376.4       4,140.1      316.3 ( 8)      692.7        4,456.4
2. Professional fees        1,472.6         147.3 (10) 1,619.9       380.2 (23)      527.5        1,999.1
Local                  1,325.3         132.5       1,457.8      370.9 (25)      503.4        1,828.7
Foreign                  147.3          14.8         162.1        9.3 ( 6)       24.1          171.4
3. Furniture                  771.0          77.1 (10)   848.1       188.0 (22)      265.1        1,036.1
Local                    424.0          42.4         466.4      103.4 (22)      145.8          569.8
Foreign                  347.0          34.7         381.7       84.6 (22)      119.3          466.3
4. Equipment                4,819.0         481.9 (10) 5,200.9   1,200.2 (23)   1,682.1           6,501.1
Local                    241.0          24.1         265.1       60.1 (23)       84.2          325.2
Foreign                4,578.0         457.8       4,935.8   1,140.1 (23)   1,597.9          6,175.9
5. Technical Assistance    4,301.4          430.2 (10) 4,731.6       897.1 (19)   1,327.3         5,628.7
Local                    215.1          21.6         236.7       44.9 (19)       66.5          281.6
Foreign                4,086.3         408.6         494.9      852.2 (19)   1,260.8         5,347.1
6. Training Needs Survey        75.7          7.6 (10)    83.3        10.2 (12)       17.8           93.2
Local                     68.1           6.8          74.9        9.2 (12)       16.0           84.1
Foreign                    7.6           0.8           8.4        1.0 (12)        1.8            9.1
7. Project Administration    645.0           64.5 (10)   709.5       126.2 (18)      190.7          835.7
Local                    580.5          58.1         638.6      113.6 (18)      171.7          752.2
Foreign                   64.5           6.4          70.9       12.6 (18)       19.0           83.5
TOTAL                      23,418.3       2,342.0 (10)25,760.3   5,896.0 (23)   8,238.0         31,655.0
Local                 10,423.9       1,042.5      11,466.4   3,479.9 (30)   4,522.4        14,946.3
Foreign               12,994.4       1,299.5      14,293.9   2,416.1 (17)   3,715.6        16,708.7



T-1 3
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Estimated Recurrent Expenditures, 1982
(In 1976 Thousand Colones)
Category of Expenditures
Program                                  Personnel    Materials    OtherslI    Total
Rural Training                             419.2         576.0        120.0      1,115.2
In-Service Training &
Central Administration                  403.2          81.0         65.0        549.2
Sub-total                          822.4         657.0        185.0     1,664.4
Manpower Dept.                              757.2         50.0         70.0        877.2
San Salvador VTC                           541.0          69.0         47.0        657.0
Santa Ana VTC                              302.5          37.0         38.0        377.5
San Miguel VTC                             316.3          45.7         31.0        393.0
Mobile Units                                165.6          71.4        47.2        284.2
Sub-total                          2,082.6         273.1        233.2     2,588.9
CENAP                                      331.7          41.0         10.0        382.7
Total                              3,236.7         971.1        428.2     4,636.0
1/ Include contributions to the social security system, utility charges and others
not included in other categories.



T-14
El Salvador
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Accumulated       Undisbursed
Fiscal Year    Semester       Disbursements    Disbursements    Balance 1/
1979            1              154               154              8,846
2             557                711             8,289
1980            1              672             1,383              7,617
2           1,258             2,641              6,359
1981            1            2,625             5,266              3,734
2           2,936             8,222                798
1982            1              798             9,800
2
Source: mission estimates
1/ At end of each semester



c-i
RL SALVADOR
STRUCTURE OF THE PORMAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
1 O7?
SECONDARY
BASIC EDUCATION                                         EDUCATION                            HIGHER EDUCATION
FIRSTCYCLE      I     SECONDCYCLE              THIRDCYCLE                 BACHILLERATOS
ACADMCNON-UNIVERSITY
TEACHER TRAINING
PEDAGOGIC
SOCIAL WDRK
COMMERCE
TECHNOLOGY
INDUSTRIAL
{ } {  H     S               ~~~~~~~AGRICULTURE
UN{VENURSI G
HOTEL AND TOURISM                       N          CTC
{                         ~~~~~~~~~NAVIGATION AND FISHING
HEALTH                      <
F-1   -F7.-~~~~~~~~~~~oldok-67
{ 1 { 1 { }                 . ~~~HTEANDTURISM
HOME ECONOMICS
NAVIGATION L FISHERY           IECHOLO
{ } [ } { }               ~~~~~~UNIVERSITY
FINE ARS                          UIESDDNCOA                  |
KINDERGARTEN                                                                               1}4UIESDDCTLC
l      2        3      4        5       6       7       8                   I 10    H       1 2              1       2       3       4       5
AGE          I        I                                                                   l       l       ll                       l      |   
7       8              I 10    1 1     1 2     1 3     1 4      1,5         16      1 7     1 8             1 9     2'0    2'1      22       23
W.,lddB-k-16570



EL SALVADOR
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE
PUBLIC AGRICULTURAL SECTOR'
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
VICE MINISTER
SPECIFIC ADVISORY FUNCTION       lAUCXILLIARY SERVICES F
GNRl           GENERAL                 l                    N    N
DIRTORMATEN       DIRECTORATE         DIRECTATE                        PERSONNEL                     FINANC T A
ODENATRALE          OL TOFRAGRICULTURAL
ECONOMICS
I                                                           I 11
PRO|ECT-RELATED F~NCTIDNS                   ACTONOMOUS EXECUTIVE FUNCTIONS
*~~      ~O NAUALVAOR !EAN              CK        O INS IGTITEFOR             LINESTITUTE|OF       AGRICULTURAL       AIA
INSTITLTEOF  REGULATING ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     NATONA
RESOURCES         DEVELOPMENT          8 DRAINAGE              TECHNOLOGY            TRAINING    ,     POETO
(DGRD)       I      DGI:       I       (GRD                     (CNA               (CENCAP)
PROJECT-RELATED FUNCTIONS                                     AUTONOMOUS EXEC.UTIVE FUNCTIONS1
INSTITUTE OF            AGRICULTURAL                    A                          BANK
.............COFFEE RESEARCH                  COMMODITIES                 TRANSFORMATIONj
The design does not mea- necessari y levels of authllty
WorId Eank- 16614



EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project                                    C-3
Organization of the National System of Agricultural Training (CENCAP)
General                                     Coordinating
ComLi ttee
Planning  and                      and
E    a.                    Documentation
jvlutIon
Center
Reseac           ~o              ic                    C m   ui a onAdministration
Rural Training Centers
In-Service Training                                        1 Ahuachapan                 Farmers and
of Professional and                                        2. Texistepeque               Rural Workers
Technical Staff                                            3. Nueva concepcion          Training
4. Sta. Cruz Porrillos
5. Guacotecti
6. Usulutan
7. Sta. Rosa de Lima
8. Ia Union
World Bank-18820



C-4
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Typical Use of Workshops for Different Courses
1 Year (48 Weeks)
08:00
ACCELERATED TRAINING (960 Hours)
Group 1 (10 Trainees)                Group 2 (10 Trainees)
17:00
08:00
APPRENTICESHI1P TRAINING (960 Hours)                           Work Day
12:00                        One Group (10 Trainees)
ACCELERATED TRAINING (480 Hours)
170  Group 1 (10 Trainees)                Group 2 (10 Trainees)
17:00
19:00
UPGRADING TRAINING (i92 Hours) 2
21:00      Group l (20 Trainees)           I     Group 2 (20 Trainees) 



EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project                                         C-5
Proposed Organization of the Manpower Department of the Ministry of Labor
|ational vocational|             Minister of Labor|
Training Council                     bScrty
Staff             No.
Professional     56
Technical                                                 Secretary/Typist  20
Committee                                                 Others             8
Total             84
Director National
Manpower Dept.
EMPLOYMENT                       OPERATIONS                    ADMINISTRATION                     PLANNING AND
SERVICE                                                                                           EVALUATION
Information                     Fixed Training Centers             Budget & Finance                 Statistics
Vocational Guidance             Mobi!e Training                    Procurement                      Training Needs
Placement Services              In-Plant-Training                  Personnel                         Analysis
Instructor Training                Maintenance                     Occupational
Training Standards                 Transportation                    Analysis
Certification                     Printing Services               Curriculum
Liaison with                       Public Relations                Course Materials
Enterprises                                                       Visual Aids
Documentation
Program Evaluation
World Bank-1 8822



EL SALVADOR                                              c-6
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Proposed Organization of Vocational Training Centers
TR IPARTITE
ADVISORY                                     DIRECTOR
COMMITTEE
[         OPERATIONS            J           ADMINISTRATION                       SUPPORT SERVICES
VOCATIONAL TRAINING                      BUDGETIFINANCE                      INDUSTRIAL LIAISON
PROCUREMENT                        & PLACEMENT
INSTRUCTOR TRAINING 1/
PERSONNEL SERVICES                 VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE
TRAINING STDS/CERTIFICATION
MAINTENANCE                        VISUAL AIDS
MOBILE TRAINING
_________________________        TRANSPORT                          PUBLICATION/LIBRARY
Staff             Total   S. Salvador   Sta. Ana   S. Miguel
Professional Staff  69       33         19         17
(Instructors) 2/   (47)     (25)       (12)       (10)
Secretaries/typists    15     8          4         3
Others              18       10          4         4
Total             102        51         27         24
1 / Only in the San Salvador Center.
2/ Includes instructors for mobile training courses.                                    World Bank-18823



EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project                                      C-7
Organization of Project Implementation Machinery
National Vocational
Training Council
_         ~~~Technical    |
Minister of                                    Miise  ofn teo
| Agriculture    || Labor                                                                      E l  cnomy     l
Sub-Secetary                                           cretary            irco                Su Serty
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~~r CENCA                         Manpovver         IImplementation of                NAPS
W                                 Management
~~~~~~~~~~Training Projects
Implementationl
of Agricultural
Training             _ _ _ _ __ _ _ 
Projects
World Bank-18821



c-8
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Pro,lect
Implementation Schedule
Calendar tear
1. Setting uP ImPlementation Teems                             1 9 7 8             1 9 7 9           l  9  C              1   198
Ministry of Labor                                              XXX
Ministry of Ag'> ulture                                   XXX
2. Site Selection, Surveying and Acquisition
Eight rural training centers                              XXX XXX
In-service training                                       X)X XXX
Voc. Training Centers - San Salvador (combined)           XXX XXX XXX
- Santa Ana                        XXX XXX XXX
- San Miguel                       XXX XXX XXX
3. Educational and Architectural Briers
Items under Ministry of Labor                                 XXX XXX
Items under Ministry of Agriculture                       XXX XXX
4. Design
Eight rural training centers                               XX XXX
In-service training                                        XX XXX
Voc. Training Center - San Salvador (combined)                          XXX X
- Santa Ana                                       XXX X
- San Miguel                                      XXX X
5. Civil Works Tendering                                                                      l
Four rural training centers (1-4)                                       XXX
Four rural training centers (5-8)                                           XXX
In-service ,training                                                        XXX
Voc. Training Centers - San Salvador (combined)                                X XX
- Santa Ana                                            XXX
- San Miguel                                           XXX
6. Construction
Four rural training centers (1-4)                                           XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX' XXX
Four rural training centers (5-8)                                                XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX, XXX XXX
In-service training                                                             XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX
Voc. Training Centers - San Salvador                                                 XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXXE XXX XXX XXX
- Santa Ana                                                        XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX
- San Miguel                                                       XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX
7. Purniture Listing and Tendering                                         |
All items under Ministry of Agriculture                            XXX  XXX          xxx xx
All vocational training centers                                         XXX XXX           XxX X
8.Furniture Procurement and Istallation
All items under Ministry of Agriculture                                                       XXX XXX       X   X
All vocational training centers                                                         j          XXX XXXI          XXX
9. Equipment Listing and Tendering
All items under Ministry of Agriculture                            XXX  XXX          XXXI X
All vocational trainirg centers                                         XXX XXX X         X)X X
10. Equipment Suoply and Installation
All items under Ministry of Agriculture                                                   XXX XXX         |    X
All vocational training centers                                                                           e XXX XXX XXX
1l. Iechnica. Assistancel'
Agricultural Training
a)  Specialists                                                 XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXXj XXX XXX XXX XXXI XXX
b) Fellowships                                                        XXX XYX XXX XXX I XXX  XXX
Industrial Training
a)  Specialists                                                 XXX  iX XX    X XXX XXX XXX  xxx  XXX XXX  XXX
b)  In-Plant Training                                                         XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX
c) Fellovships                                                        XXX XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX XXX XXX  xxx XXX XXX XXX
Middle Level Training
a)  Specialists                                                       XXX XXX XXX  XXX   XXX  XXX XXX XXX  XXX XXX
b) Fellowships                                                                XXX XXX  XXX XXX
ProJect Administration
a)  Specialists in physical planning                                 XXX XXX XXX XXX
12. Creation of Autoanomous Training Agency
Feasibility Study and Public Discussion                       XXX XXX  XXX
Preparation  of Legal Brief                                                 XXX
Deliberation by National Assembly                                                XXX XXX
1/ See T-9 for details.



ANNEX 2
EL SALVADOR                               Page 1 of 2
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Costs and Benefits of Non-Formal Training
The present state of the art is such that it is extremely
difficult to prepare cost-benefit comparisons for education projects,
principally because of the analytical difficulties involved in quantifying
the benefits deriving from such projects. With full recognition of these
problems, an effort has nevertheless been made to calculate an economic
rate of return for the agricultural and industrial training components of
the proposed project. As is normally the case with Bank-financed vocational
training projects, the main techniques used to judge the appropriateness of
the investment in the proposed project included manpower analysis and a
search for the least-cost alternative of providing the educational services.
Although the economic rate of return analysis was not used as the principal
means of evaluating the proposed project, the details are provided below
for the information of the readers.
Agricultural Training Component. When the benefits and costs of
this component of the project are discounted over 21 years, the economic
rate of return would be about 40%. The principal assumptions are that:
(a) average trainees would have about 2 ha. of arable land each; (b) about
80% of all trainees would apply the new agricultural techniques learned at the
RTC on 20% of their land in the first year after they complete their
training and on 30% of their land in each of the following two years; and
(c) the new techniques would enable the farmers to double the cumulative
area under cultivation (e.g., yield) for at least 10 years. Both training
and agricultural production costs associated with realizing the increased
farm yields have been taken into account in the analysis. The 21-year
period includes the construction period, the training period for one group
of farmers, the three-year period required for each farmer to apply the new
techniques to his farm, and ten full years of operation during which the tech-
niques would be fully employed by the farmers. To assess the sensitivity of
the basic assumptions described above, several alternative rates of return
were calculated, including: (a) 10% variations in the costs and benefits,
with the resulting rate of return not lower than 35%; and (b) increased
yields of only 50% (v. 100%), in which case the rate of return would be about
13%.
Industrial Training Component. When the benefits and costs of this
component of the project are discounted over 23 years, the economic rate of
return would be about 44%. The principal assumptions are that: (a) about
40% of the trainees would have been unemployed or underemployed and their
foregone earnings would be lower than the minimum wage; (b) about 80% of the
trainees would actually complete training, of which 80% would thereafter be
successfully placed in jobs; and (c) there would be wage differentials only
between skilled and non-skilled workers. Both training costs and the foregone
earnings of trainees participating in full-day training programs were included
in the analysis. In estimating wages of unemployed and underemployed workers
(for the purpose of calculating foregone earnings), the prevailing minimum wage
was adjusted by the expected unemployment rate. The 23-year period includes the
construction period of the training facilities, the training period and ten full



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
years of operation after one trainee group had completed its program.
When depreciation costs for buildings and equipment are taken into account,
the rate of return would be about 38%. A sensitivity analysis shows that
even with a combined 10% increase in costs and a 10% decrease in benefits,
the rate of return would be about 35%.



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
EL SALVADOR
Agricultural and Industrial Training Project
Selected Documents ad Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector and Sub-sector
A 1 - El Salvador: Education for Progress, reconnnissance-in-depth
report, two volumes, UNESCO, Paris, May 1972
A 2 - Educacion y Capacitacion Agropecuaria, informe de la FAO mision
a El Salvador, PNUD, San Salvador, July 1975
A 3 - Analisis conyuntal del sector Agropecuario, Ministerio de Agricultura
y Ganaderia, San Salvador, Abril 1976
A 4 - Tripartite Study of the Agricultural and Rural Development of
El Salvador, Preliminary Draft, IDB, USAID, and World Bank, May 1976
A 5 - Misi6n Cooperativa para la Planificaci6n Educacional, Informe
Final, y tres tomos, San Jose State University, San Jose, Febrero 1975
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B 1 - Decreto Ejecutivo No. 33 (Establishment of the National Vocational
Training Council).
B 2 - Politica General y Plan de Inversi6n para 1976, Banco de Fomento
Agropecuario, Sal Salvador, Febrero 1976
B 3 - Carrera de Ingeniero Agr6nomo, Universidad de El Salvador,
San Salvador 1974
B 4 - Programa Nacional de Formacion Profesional: Documento preliminar:
Elaborado por Comite Tecnico Ad-Hoc, San Salvador, Enero 1978
B 5 - Documento Base para la Creacion del Centro Nacional de Capacitaci6n
Agropecuaria, Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, San Salvador,
Noviembre 1975
B 6 - Propuesta de Regionalizaci6n para la Prestaci6n de los Servicios
del Sector Publico Agropecuario, Ministerio de Agricultura y
Ganaderia, San Salvador, Enero 1975
B 7 - Ley de Creacion del Instituto Salvadorenio de Transformaci6n
Agraria (Decreto N° 302), Junio 1975



ANNE,J .,
Page 2 of 3
B 8 - Informacion sobre Actividades de Capacitaci6n, Profesor G. Duque,
San Salvador, Marzo 1976
B 9 - Sugerencia para la Sistema de Formaci6n Profesional, Ministerio de
Educaci6n, San Salvador, Marzo 1976
B10 - Sistema Nacional para el Incremento de la Productividad y la
Formaci6n Profesional, CENAP, San Salvador, Septiembre 1975
Bll - Sistema de Capacitaci6n de Mandos Medios, CENAP, San Salvador,
Febrero 1976
B12 - Descripcion del Proyecto de Servicio de Informacion y Asistencia
Tecnica a las Empresas, CENAP, San Salvador, Enero 1976.
B13 - Guia de Informaci6n de las Carreras Tecnicas que el ITCA ofrecera/
en 1977 para Alumnos de Nuevo Ingreso, Ministerio de Educacion,
San Salvador,1976
B14 - Anteproyecto de Cooperaci6n Tecnica del Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucci6n y Fomento (BIRF) al Centro Nacional de Productividad
(CENAP), CENAP, San Salvador, Mayo 1976
B15 - Creacion, Objetivos, Organizacion y Sede del CENAP, CENAP,
San Salvador, Mayo 1973
B16 - Analisis de las Necesidades de Capacitaci6n de las Empresas
Industriales Medianas y Grandes en El Salvador, San Salvador,
CENAP, Enero 1976
B17 - Analisis de las Necesidades de Asistencia Tecnica de la Industria
de El Salvador, CENAP, San Salvador, Marzo 1976
B18 - Servicio de Informaci6n Tecnica en el Salvador, CENAP, San
Salvador, Marzo/Abril 1976
B19 - Poder legislativo: Acuerdo entre los gobiernos de El Salvador
y los Estados Unidos de America sobre el establecimiento de un
Centro de Productividad Industrial, San Salvador, Octubre 1959
B20 - Lista de Participantes y Cursos Generales: 1972-1975, CENAP,
San Salvador, Mayo 1976
C.   Selected Working Papers   Prepared by Bank Staff or Consultants
C 1 - Agricultural Education and Training Sub-sector Study, appraisal
mission, October 1976
C 2 - Educational Worksheet (Training Plan)
C 3 - Architectural Worksheet (Analysis of Accommodation Requirements
for Vocational Training Centers)



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
C 4   Functional Description of the Facilities to be Provided Under
the Project
C 5 - Description of Programs for Training of Supervisors and Small-
Scale Entrepreneurs
C 6 - Terms of Reference of Technical Assistance Specialists
C 7 - Estimates of Base Costs and Contingencies
C 8 - Estimates of Foreign Exchange Components
C 9 - Estimates of Operating Costs






.OR4N               I           .AIIISP
T.=          Lft ,                             T   sa, vZ<                                                                                                                                  L              C-rbb- Sen
Eor n Ws                                           7eS ( s <> >  T                               L     S  A  L  V  A    t D  7 R                                             ALE M L.O
G IJ A T E M A L A                                  i WMrpnj W                                                   STHIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                        SAYDA6A
PACIFIC                    PNM
OCEAN  COST                   A
@t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0G                                                                                                    RIA             ZR,   ECoz e 
1i:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.    - -'I
Is        V"          CORCeETAT         It LRI'                            '1           0N CT O   -p- I               L                                                                                                                   W 'all"
OI OCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS      -----RAILROADS  S --1 rnf erohlopo \|_- |. 35'
13-15    r      CENCAP                             *(                                                                                                                          ElERAIDA  TIRTTfo   Eccl  Mo"-ol -)                      - '. '3 iT Prdo
_- _ RITERS _ DR                                   -  \ --- - - -t 91  l
AGRICRLTGDAI. REGIONS                                                                                                                                                                                   , A  , 0F-AmPI
DEPARTMENTAL ROONODRIES
P~~~ A                                OCFAi
I--NTERNATIONAL ONDARIES   o                        3000Cp
0        10       20        30       40        50                                                                                                                                         _
IS' 00                                                                       KILOMETERJS                                                                                                                        D, OIS SI  O
9900'                     R9-45'                      80'30'                     R9;1'                      89"0'OO                     RD 45                      RD 30>                      A815'                       ONTO                       O7'h5'   8 0
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II                                                                                                   A



