Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21416-RU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$122.5 MILLION
TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
FOR A
MUNICIPAL WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
November 30, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Russia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = RUR
RUR 1.00 = US$0.036
US$ 1.00 = RUR 27.75
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           -       Country Assistance Strategy
CQ            -       Selection Based on Consultant's Qualification
CW            -       Civil Works
EBRD          -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FMA           -       Financial Management Assessment
GOSSTROI    -         State Committee for Construction and Housing Policy
IAS           -       International Accounting Standards
ICB           -       International Competitive Bidding
IFI           -       International Financing Agency
IIP           -       Immediate Investment Program
IRR           -       Internal Rate of Return
IS            -       International Shopping
LA            -       Loan Agreement
LCB           -       Local Competitive Bidding
LCS           -       Least Cost Selection
LPIU          -       Local Project Implementation Unit
MSOIP         -       Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
NCB           -       National Competitive Bidding
NS            -       National Shopping
MOF           -       Ministry of Finance
NFHR          -       Naitonal Foundation for Housing Reform
PIP           -       Project Implementation Plan
PHRD          -       Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PMR           -       Project Management Report
QBS           -       Quality-Based Selection
QCBS          -       Quality and Cost-Based Selection
SBD           -       Standard Bidding Document
SIDA          -       Swedish International Development Agency
SLGA          -       Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement
SOE           -       Statement of Expenditure
TOR           -       Terms of Reference
WTP           -       Water Treatment Plant
WWTP          -       Wastewater Treatment Plant
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Michael F. Carter, ECC10
Sector Director/Water Sector Manager:    Ricardo A. Halperin/Walter Stottmann, ECSIN
Task Team Leader:    Kari Homanen, ECSIN



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
MUNICIPAL WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        8
3. Benefits and target population                                                       9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            17
4. Indications of borrower cornmitment and ownership                                   18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            20
2. Financial                                                                           21
3. Technical                                                                           24
4. Institutional                                                                       25
5. Environrnental                                                                      27
6. Social                                                                              30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  32
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      32
2. Critical risks                                                                      33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      38



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             38
2. Other                                                                               39
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           41
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          42
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           43
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     47
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          60
Annex 4: Economic Analysis Summary                                                        63
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                68
Annex 5A: Project Financial Management Assessment                                         89
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        96
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     104
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   105
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  108
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            110
MAP(S)



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: November 30, 2000                           Team Leader: Kari Homanen
Country Manager/Director: Michael F. Carter       Sector Manager/Director: Walter Stottmann
Project ID: P008832                               Sector(s): WS - Sewerage, WU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ I Credit    [ Grant      [ ]Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 122.50 million
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source.                                  Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      45.40           0.00         45.40
IBRD                                                           0.00         122.50        122.50
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY                       0.00           1.00          1.00
(SIDA)
Total:                                                        45.40         123.50        168.90
Borrower: RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Responsible agency: MUNICIPAL WATER AND WASTEWATER ENTERPRISES
State Committee for Housing and Construction Policy (Gosstroi) and National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR)
Address: National Foundation for Housing Reform
Room 210 - 6, Tverskoy Boulevard, Moscow, 103009 Russia
Contact Person: Valeria Sergeeva - Manager
Tel: 7-095-290 4245                Fax: 7-095-202-9201               Email: ruswater@online.ru
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/USSM):
FY         2001      -2002       2003      2004       2005       2006
Annual    1.20       31.90      28.20      23.30     25.70      12.20
Cumulative    1.20      33.10      61.30      84.60     110.30    122.50
Project implementation period: 2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 05/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OCS PAD F<n R  M   2Mh 0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (sec Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to arrest the decline of water and wastewater services of fourteen
medium-size cities (less than 500,000 inhabitants) located in different regions of Russia that have
demonstrated their commitment to the project objectives and the institutional reforms necessary to achieve
them. More specifically, at the city level, the project seeks to: (a) support the most critical and immediate
investments needed to improve the operation of the water and wastewater systems while achieving
improvement of system operations, reduction of operational costs, improvement of service quality; and (b)
implement a specific set of institutional and commercial reforms aimed at improving physical system
operations and financial performance of vodokanals.
Through project implementation, the Russian Federation will extract lessons from the implementation of the
fourteen sub-projects over a wide range of local conditions and the project will support the preparation of
replicable methodologies, guidelines, and case studies to guide the government's program of municipal
services reform aimed at helping municipal local governments and their water and wastewater enterprises
(vodokanals) to become better managed, more efficiently operated and financially sustainable utilities that
are capable of providing water and wastewater services of a higher quality to their customers in a
cost-effective manner.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards achieving the development objectives will be evaluated on two levels. At the national
level, the key performance indicators will be: (i) the number of participating vodokanals able to achieve the
fmancial targets, particularly the increases in revenue collection and cash collection; (ii) the number of
participating vodokanals that successfully implement a cost reduction and operational improvement
program (particularly aimed at network and demand management and wastage reduction), the impact of
which will be measured based on the improvements to drinking water quality and energy efficiency as key
indicators.
At the vodokanal level, each investment will have one or more associated output indicators, depending on
its main objective (service quality improvements -water quality or wastewater effluent-, operational
improvement, energy savings, and/or water wastage reduction). Additionally, as part of the Technical
Assistance activities of the Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program, a set of key
vodokanal indicators (financial and operational) will be defined based on the specific features of each
vodokanal and the operational, institutional, and financial reforms to be implemented. These indicators will
be measured and reported to the National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR) for compilation and
integration at the Project level.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-229/1;IFC/R99-198/1         Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/22/1999
The CAS includes the proposed project in the lending pipeline. While confirming the broad thrust of the
strategy for sustainable poverty reduction in Russia, the CAS calls for greater emphasis on financial
management, governance, and addressing of corruption as key themes in the Bank's work in Russia.
Accordingly, it envisages a phased shift in Bank operations, with greater emphasis being placed on reform
- 2-



of systemic policies and institutions aimed at improving public administration and enabling development of
an efficient private sector. Although the emphasis on sector-related or region-specific interventions is to be
reduced than earlier, the CAS reconfirms the need for essential rehabilitation and maintenance of
infrastructure, particularly that needed to address critical health and enviromnental problems such as that
posed by limited access to drinking water and pollution of water resources. This has been identified in the
CAS as one of the most critical environmental problems facing Russia today. The CAS indicates that the
IBRD will continue to address the most serious issues in infrastructure via the pipeline of activities that has
already been initiated under the previous CAS. The CAS also reiterates the need for efficiency gains in
natural monopoly infrastructure services, calling for reforms in four areas in particular: (i) pricing that
better reflects cost and demand conditions; (ii) reduction of arrears and strengthening of payments
discipline; (iii) development of an arms-length regulatory oversight; and (iv) restructuring of sectors to
make their operations more transparent and open to competitive forces.
Consistent with the CAS, the project addresses critical water and wastewater infrastructure rehabilitation
needs in 14 cities where urgent intervention is required to halt further deterioration and to restore
acceptable standards of drinking water and water resources pollution control.  The project further
contributes in furthering institutional and policy reform in the sector through: (i) initiating a sector reform
program supporting the development of market-oriented principles in the provision of water and wastewater
services expected to eventually open the door for private sector participation in the medium term; (ii)
strengthening public sector institutions and procedures supportive of open and competitive markets and
oriented towards the provision of physical, social and institutional infrastructure not normally provided
through the private sector; (iii) establishing the Bank as a trusted and reliable development partner through
the financing of high priority public sector investments and policy advice on key economic and sectoral
issues; and (iv) regarding infrastructure, introducing a more appropriate institutional/regulatory framework
and facilitating stronger management, better financial conditions and performance, better maintenance and
more cost effective operation of water and wastewater systems.
The project falls within the low-intermediate CAS lending scenario, for which triggers have broadly been
met. Revised triggers, that take into account the changes in the operational environment for the Bank's
work in Russia, and a general update on developments in Russia and in implementing the Bank Group's
assistance strategy will be provided in the forthcoming CAS progress report.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Water Sector Study prepared jointly by the Russian government and the Bank in 1996 provided
guidance for the policy content of the project. The study depicts a continuing deterioration in the capacity
of most of the country's vodokanals to provide reliable and safe water and wastewater services. The
financial base of vodokanals has eroded alarmingly. Most of them suffer from large financial deficits.
Maintenance has been inadequate and investments in system rehabilitation and new construction have come
to halt. The population is dissatisfied with the quality of services and worried about safety of the supply,
as inadequate water treatment is held responsible for an increasing number of water-related diseases. If the
country's water and wastewater infrastructure is allowed to continue to deteriorate, public health concerns
will rise and the quality of life of a large segment of the population will further decline.
The sector study points out that the past system of central command and control and the government's
subsidy policies is responsible for the disincentives and distortions which prohibit efficient sector
management and development. These manifest themselves in:
- 3 -



* Poor state of repair of facilities: The water and wastewater networks and treatment plants are in a state
of severe disrepair due to poor planning, inadequate design, low quality of materials and equipment
used, and, above all, lack of appropriate periodic maintenance and repairs due to shortage of financial
resources.
* Inefficient operations: Potable water and wastewater treatment plants have been inappropriately
designed and are poorly maintained and operated. As a consequence, these plants perform badly in
terms of quality of output and efficiency. Other components of the water and sewage systems are
similarly inefficient. For example, water networks suffer from excessive leakage - loss rates of 50%
and more are not uncommon - and hydraulically improper design; sewer pipes take on excessive
leakage and infiltration.
* Lack of incentives for water conservation: Low efficiency of water use is the norm. The negligible
level of water charges for raw and bulk water and the low prices for water services provide very weak
signals to water users about the value of the resource. Under this incentive regime, water users react as
they do in any other economy, by refusing to invest money in optimizing their water supply systems
(internal plumbing, industrial systems) or managing demand. Households, industry and public
agencies, not accustomed to water conservation and not faced with appropriate water tariffs waste
significant amounts of water, driving up operating costs unnecessarily.
- Lack of financial viability: All vodokanals in the project are facing reduced government transfers due
to fiscal constraints. At the same time, they are authorized to charge low and distorted tariffs which,
combined with poor collections, cannot make up for the traditional budget subsidies of the past.
Additionally, the vodokanals face a tax structure which penalizes efficient use of financial resources.
The final result is a disastrous financial situation that prevents them from doing any maintenance and
paying on time vodokanal staff or accumulating large debts to their suppliers, most notably electricity
providers. Additionally, the utilities and municipalities have made little or no investments in
rehabilitation, repair and/or expansion of facilities for years. This trend brings the water and sanitation
systems towards lower and lower service levels that will bring parts, and eventually the totality of the
system, to a halt.
* Institutional and regulatorv weakness: The water utilities are overstaffed, technically oriented entities
with insufficient concem for efficiency and little autonomy and no control over crucial aspects of their
business.
* Lack of adequate information: The financial and technical information available to the utility
management is insufficient and does not provide the information base needed to manage the operations
or plan the development of the water and sanitation systems efficiently.
The sector study proposes the initiation of a comprehensive program of sector reforms made up of four
main elements: (i) transformation of present vodokanals into independent "corporatized" utilities regulated
by local government; (ii) gradually turning vodokanals into financially self sufficient institutions through
tariff reform and better collection; (iii) reformation of past investment policies by introducing least cost
strategies giving preference to plant and network rehabilitation and efficiency enhancements; and (iv)
bringing in the consumers as a participating party in vodokanal decision making. These reform principles
have been formally endorsed by the government of the Russian Federation as part of its overall program of
reform of the communal services sector. Gosstroi, the parent organization of the sector, has made its
demand for reform clear throughout the preparation of the project.
- 4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
One of the main strategic choices agreed with the Government was that the size of sub-loans to individual
vodokanals would be determined by the financial capacity of each vodokanal based on the political
commitment to tariff increases and rigorous collection while considering the consumers' willingness and
ability to pay. Furthermore, the four-fold devaluation of the ruble during project preparation diminished
the borrowing capacity of vodokanals. While this meant that the size of the investments that could be
financed in each participating vodokanal is small compared to what would be needed to fully rehabilitate
the water and wastewater systems - and much smaller than original expectations - participating local
governments and vodokanals accepted this approach. Additionally, the funds available for technical
assistance were limited requiring a focused program on a limited set of key sector issues that can bring
noticeable improvements in the solution of the root causes of the main problems in the water and
wastewater services. The sector issues and the strategic choices are grouped in three areas:
a)    Improve financial situation of vodokanals: Demonstrated commitment to this principle by oblasts,
municipalities and vodokanals was one of the main factors in the self-selection process of participating
vodokanals. Full recovery of costs, including operations, adequate maintenance, depreciation, finance
charges and opportunity cost on invested equity from user charges is essential to ensure the long term
viability of the water utilities and recovery of their ability to provide an acceptable level of service. The
complete rehabilitation of water and wastewater systems will be a long-term undertaking for most
vodokanals, as the funding requirements for the necessary investments are way beyond their present
financial capacity. Russian vodokanals will not be able to raise to the challenge of rehabilitating their
facilities and provide better services without the introduction of cost covering tariffs and determined
enforcement of collections from all consumers. The Project will provide support on three areas to improve
the financial situation of vodokanals by increasing revenue collection: (i) development and implementation
of a new commercial system that will allow for consumption based billing, effective consumers and
collection management, and consumer friendly customer service; (ii) development and implementation of
new policies, procedures for setting tariffs - levels and structures - and procedures for adjusting tariffs in
response to financial requirements and as a tool for demand management; and (iii) development and
implementation of a metering strategy as a tool for demand management and increase of revenue collection.
b)    Improve operational efficiency of water and wastewater systems: In order to improve the quality
of service and reduce operational costs, all vodokanals must make a significant effort to improve the
operational efficiency of vodokanals, both in terms of reducing energy expenditure - their major
operational cost component - and reducing water wastage (physical leakage and consumer wastage).
Investment planning and implementation in the past has been dominated by technical imperatives, often
without sufficient concem for cost-effectiveness and economic consideration. Making better use of existing
systems, setting priorities among investment choices, least-cost staging and life cycle costing and
affordability considerations must become the guiding principles in selecting investments.  Before
contemplating investments in new capacity, utilities may derive significant savings by considering instead
investments in such areas as the reduction of system leakages and water. The Project will provide support
on the development and implementation of a cost-effective methodology for operational cost reduction
specifically focused on: (i) reduction in water consumption which will postpone system expansion; (ii)
improvement of network performance mainly to reduce energy costs and leaks; (iii) reliable production
metering in support of a better understanding of water losses; and (iv) improvement of water and
wastewater plants performance, including energy conservation.
-5 -



c)     Strengthen vodokanal's institutional capacity: Following decentralization of municipal services,
most local governments have made significant advances in giving their vodokanals separate legal status.
One important task to tackle by vodokanal management and local government is to define more clearly the
local government-utility relationship to allow professional management of vodokanals, unencumbered by
political interference, yet responsive to the legitimate interest of local government for efficiency in
management and operations and consumer orientation. A strategic choice of the Project was to leave the
decisions and ownership of the project at the lowest level of government involved in the provision of water
and wastewater services. All aspects of project administration and coordination will be managed by the
vodokanals, as the lowest and most direct level of government organization dealing with water and
sanitation services. Furthermore, through the Project implementation, vodokanals will strengthen their
capacity to select investments, contract out their design, and supervise their construction, activities which
were performed in the past by other government agencies, often with little consultation and interaction with
the vodokanal.
-6-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Imnediate Investment Program   Other Water         59.01      34.9     52.99       43.3
Supply &
Sanitation
2. Management Strengthening and    Other Water                    0.0                  0.0
Operational Improvement Programn   Supply &
Sanitation
2.1 Technical Assistance/training                    6.30       3.7      6.30        5.1
2.2 Investment Support                              53.91      31.9     48.07       39.2
3. Project Management and         Other Water                     0.0                  0.0
Implementation Support         Supply &
Sanitation
3.1 Final Designs and Bidding                        6.93       4.1      6.93        5.7
Documents
3.2 Supervision of Construction                      2.99       1.8      2.99        2.4
3.3 General Procurement                              1.00       0.6      0.00        0.0
Assistance*
3.4 NFHR/Project Implementation                      4.00       2.4      4.00        3.3
Unit
Total Taxes and Duties                                33.54       19.9      0.00       0.0
(25% of Project Cost) 
Total Project Costs                  167.68       99.3    121.28      99.0
Front-end fee                    1.22        0.7      1.22       1.0
Total Financing Required                   168.90     100.0    122.50      100.0
* To be financed by Sweden (SIDA).
Proiect Component 1 - Immediate Investment Program (IIP):
In each city, a set of high priority inmmediate investments have been identified, justified, costed and designed
by consultants during project preparation. The IIP for the vodokanals has an implementation period
generally of no more than two years; and a total cost below the sub-project loan size to allow sufficient
resources for the implementation of the Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program.
- 7 -



Project Component 2 - Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Pro,ram (MSOIP):
The objective of this component is to implement a specific and well-defined set of technical and commercial
reforms aimed at improving physical system operations and management and financial perfornance of
Vodokanals. The MSOIP is divided into two closely related sub components
2.1 - Technical Assistance for Implementation of the MSOIP (TA):
This sub-component will finance the consulting services to support: (i) the development and implementation
of a new govemance and commercial system, accounting and financial management system , tariffs setting
system and metering strategy; and (ii) the identification of investments to improve the quality and efficiency
of water and wastewater services. Finland, Sweden and United Kingdom are expected to participate in the
financing of this component.
2.2 - Investment in Support of the MSOIP:
This sub-component will finance investments (goods, works and training) in order to: (i) improve the
management of vodokanals; and (ii) improve the operational efficiency of the existing systems through
implementation of the interventions defined under sub-component 2.1. The investments in this category
would include various items generally used with water and wastewater systems like pipes, valves, pumps,
mechanical and electrical parts, and controls, bulk and block meters, maintenance equipment, leak and
pressure management equipment, and other equipment.
Proiect Component 3 - Proiect Management and Implementation Support:
3.1 - Engineering Designs and Bidding Documents: Consultants will assist each of the participating
vodokanals in the elaboration of final designs and bidding documents of all investments in the MSOIP.
Finland and Sweden are expected to participate in the financing of this component.
3.2 - Supervision of Construction: Consultants will assist vodokanals in the supervision of construction to
ensure that the quality of equipment and civil works under both the IIP and the MSOIP meet adequate
standards of quality and that bills provided by suppliers and contractors are correct.
3.3 - General Procurement Assistance: Qualified advisors will assist the National Foundation for Housing
Reform (NFHR) and vodokanals in procurement actions to ensure compliance with the provisions of the
Loan Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines. The advisors will also be responsible for training the staff in
the NFHR and in various vodokanals in handling procurement. Sweden will finance this component.
3.4 - Proiect Implementation Arrangements: The NFHR will be responsible for managing and supervising
the project. The NFHR will be the main link with the Bank and fully responsible for ensuring that the
project is implemented efficiently in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is expected to support the following key policy and institutional reforms in the provision of
water and wastewater services in participating vodokanals and in the water and wastewater sector as a
whole:
-8 -



* Change in the pricing of water and wastewater service to a transparent system based on cost-recovery
principles and including all cost factors;
* Change in the tariff subsidy policy to reduce the financial burden on vodokanals and protect the truly
poor rather than broad categories of preferred customers that do not necessarily need the tariff
subsidies vodokanals are required to give them;
* Change in the Government's role in infrastructure development and public service provision,
accompanied by greater autonomy and decentralization of the management of services;
* Change in commercial practices of vodokanals;
* Change in the sources of sector financing from government contributions to consumer tariffs; and
*   Change in the criteria and approach to select investments in the water and sanitation sector, from a
view that focuses only on capacity expansions to one that supports adequate maintenance,
improvements in operational efficiency, and reduction of wastage.
3. Benefits and target population:
The final beneficiaries of the project are the people and other consumers connected to the water and
wastewater systems of the participating vodokanals which are now facing a rapid deterioration of quality
and reliability of their services. Table 3.1 presents a summary of the population served by the 14
vodokanals participating in the project. The main direct benefit is expected through an improvement in the
service by halting the deterioration of the water and wastewater infrastructure, reducing inefficiencies in the
systems, and addressing some of the most urgent priorities. Given the limited resources that would be
available through the project, the rehabilitation of the system would not be completed to a fully acceptable
level, but noticeable improvements in the quality and/or reliability are expected. The reduction of water
and energy wastage, one of the key criteria for sub-project selection, would bring environmental benefits.
Improvements in the quality of drinking water are expected to bring health benefits and improvements in
wastewater collection and treatment are expected to bring environmental and health benefits.
Table 3.1
Population Served by Participating Vodokanals
City            Population Served Population Served
Water (000)     Wastewater (000)
Astrakhan       339             289
Cheboksary      424             392
Gagarin         28              28
Kansk           110             65
Nakhodka        156             156
(]yol           325             250
Pechora         61              60
Petrozavodsk    272             272
Pskov           183             183
Sochi           393             377
Tobolsk         98              98
Volkhov         41              41
Vologda         265             265
Votkinsk        91              87
Total           2,786           2,563
There is no specific target group for the project, as its benefits would accrue to the connected population as
a whole. However, in some of the participating cities, there are sections of the served areas with highly
deficient services due to specific bottlenecks or inadequate functioning of key system components. In
general, the population living in those parts of the cities tend to have lower incomes. In cases where the
solutions to these problems are well defined and specific investments components could be identified with
-9-



clear justification, these were included in the immediate investment program of the city. The need to
protect the poorest segments of the population will be addressed through the appropriate design of the
future tariff and subsidy structure to provide transparent subsidies to the truly poor rather than broad
segments of the population under preferred customer categories.
The intermediate beneficiaries are the participating vodokanals that will receive technical assistance
support to improve specific areas of the financial, commercial and operational aspects of their activities.
Additionally, the lessons learned during the implementation of the fourteen sub-projects over a wide range
of local conditions will be used to prepare replicable methodologies and case studies to guide the
government program of municipal services reform aimed at helping municipal local governments and
vodokanals throughout the Russian Federation. The endorsement by Gosstroi of the reforms and their
recommendation for implementation at the national level of the reforms and methodologies developed and
tested during project implementation (including tariffs, vodokanal relationship with local governments,
commercial systems, metering strategy, and network management strategy) will support replication of the
lessons learned during project implementation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 2001-2005
Executing agencies: Water and wastewater enterprises (vodokanals) of Astrakhan, Cheboksary, Gagarin,
Kansk, Nakhodka, Oryol, Pechora, Petrozavodsk, Pskov, Sochi, Tobolsk, Volkhov, Vologda, and
Votkinsk.
An inter-ministerial committee was created by the Government, including representatives of the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Economy, the State Committee for Environmental Protection, and the State
Committee for Housing and Construction Policy (Gosstroi), responsible for the overall direction and
strategic oversight of the Project. The MOF will be responsible for the financial aspects of the Subsidiary
Loan and Guarantee Agreements, and for monitoring, jointly with Gosstroi, the financial position of the
vodokanals. Overall management and supervision of the project will be the responsibility of the Gosstroi of
the Russian Federation. Day-to-day implementation and administration of the project will be executed on
behalf of Gosstroi by the National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR). The Foundation is a Russian
non-profit organization that is supervised by a Council comprising representatives of the key ministries
responsible for managing Bank projects in the communal services sector. The Council is chaired by
Gosstroi which is spearheading the government's program of reform in this sector. The Foundation already
supervises the Bank-financed Housing Loan (RU-3850) project. During project preparation, a Project
Review Unit (PRU) was created attached to Gosstroi. The Charter of the NFHR has been modified to
incorporate the PRU as one of the implementing units to be established for the management and supervision
of World Bank projects. The NFHR will be responsible for all aspects of Project administration,
management and coordination, including Project-related financial management, accounting, procurement,
disbursement, engagement of outside auditors and preparation of appropriate auditing reports and their
dissemination, and preparation of progress reports and annual reports with respect to the Project.
Each vodokanal sub-project will be governed by a Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement, acceptable
to the Bank, with MOF, Gosstroi, the NFHR and the participating vodokanals and Oblast and municipal
governments as signatories. The vodokanals will be the borrowing entities. Oblast and municipal
governments will provide loan guarantees to the MOF. During project implementation, each participating
vodokanal will maintain a Local Project Implementation Unit (LPIU), with qualifications and under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank to lead and supervise the implementation of its sub-project and to
- 1 0 -



provide the primary liaison point for the NFHR. LPIUs will be staffed with existing vodokanal specialists.
The specific roles and responsibilities of the NFHR and LPIUs in regards to procurement, accounting,
financial reporting, and auditing are presented below.
Project Financial Management Arrangements
A Financial Management Assessment (FMA) has been carried out for the project and is attached in Annex
5A. Necessary improvements for strengthening the financial management capacity of the project entities
to meet the Bank's requirements have been identified and discussed with them as part of the FMA. All
actions required by negotiations and Board presentation have been successfully completed (Annex 5A).
Subsequently the project financial management system is certified by Bank FMS as meeting minimum
financial management requirements of the Bank.
Financial Management and Accounting: Project accounts and financial management reporting to the
Bank, both at the project and the entity level, will be the responsibility of the NFHR. The NFHR will
establish project financial management systems, including internal controls, accounting , and reporting,
acceptable to the Bank. Such systems would: (i) reliably record and report all assets and liabilities, and
financial transactions of the project; and (ii) provide sufficient financial information for managing and
monitoring project activities. Project Management Reports (PMRs) would be submitted by the NFHR to
the Bank quarterly and annually as indicated in Section B.6 of the FMA (Annex 5A). Formats of the
PMRs and the timing of submission of the first PMR were confirmed at negotiations. The project accounts
will be maintained by the NFHR on the basis of sub-project accounts and other information supplied by the
LPIUs. Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component, including for individual sub-projects, in
accordance with a Chart of Accounts acceptable to the Bank. The LPIUs will maintain the sub-project
accounts and records (including a fixed assets register for project-related investments in a manner
acceptable to the Bank) related to their individual sub-projects, and submit the information to the NFHR
for review  and incorporation into the consolidated accounts.  Appropriate staffing for financial
management functions (including training and technical assistance as required) at the NFHR as well as at
the LPIUs has been discussed under the FMA. Operational Manual for the project describing the financial
management procedures and practices to be followed by the NFHR and the LPIUs has been completed and
adopted by the NFHR.
Auditing: The project financial statements, the Special Account and Statements of Expenditure (SOE) will
be audited at the end of each fiscal year during project implementation, in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Since the NHFR has already been
submitting audit reports to the Bank as required under the Housing Project, it is expected that the auditor
employed for this purpose will also undertake the auditing of the proposed project. The audit will cover
both the project and the entity (NHFR) financial statements. The audit will include in particular: (i) an
assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other
financial transactions, and ensure safe custody of the project-financed assets; (ii) a determination of
whether adequate documentation has been retained for all relevant transactions; (iii) verification that
expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing; and (iv) identification of any ineligible
expenditures. Copies of the audit report will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the
Borrower's fiscal year. The audit report will include both the compiled account of expenditures incurred
during the fiscal year, and the SOE used for withdrawal from the Special Account. Special attention would
be paid to confirm the transparency and accountability of the use of funds from the sub borrower
beneficiary vodokanals and deposited in the sub-project accounts for each vodokanal. Terms of reference
for the audit and selection of the auditor will be reviewed by the Bank every year.
-1 1 -



One of the main project objectives is to improve the financial situation of the participating vodokanals. The
introduction of cost-recovering tariffs and determined enforcement of revenue collection from all consumers
are key steps in reaching this objective. Confirmation and knowledge of the financial position of the
participating vodokanals is also a crucial factor influencing the success of the project. Currently, the
vodokanals do not have the capacity to prepare financial statements in accordance with international
accounting standards (IAS). To address this deficiency, an important provision under the project is the
adoption by the vodokanals of a special program for strengthening their financial management capacity and
for transitioning to the adoption of lAS-based accounting. Consequently, it was agreed with the project
entities under the FMA that, for the first two years of project implementation, the 14 participating
vodokanals would have their financial statements prepared in accordance with Russian Accounting
Standards (RAS), and audited by local auditors. To provide the necessary training to the vodokanals' staff
and to the local auditors, and to prepare accounting information that can be used for management, and
monitoring and reporting purposes, consultants qualified and experienced in LAS and international
standards of auditing (ISA), will be employed by the vodokanals to help prepare IAS based accounts on the
basis of the RAS accounts. This work will be part of the overall Action Plan for strengthening the financial
management capacity of the vodokanals that would be carried out under the MSOIP. The detailed terms of
reference for this part of the work under the MSOIP will be defined and agreed within 18 months from loan
effectiveness. Adequate funds would be allocated for this purpose under the MSOIP contract. It is
expected that, starting from the third year of project implementation, the participating vodokanals would be
able to prepare financial statements in accordance with IAS, and correspondingly, to have the audits
conducted according to ISA.
Project Procurement Arrangements
The procurement of civil works, goods and services of the Bank-financed components will be in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Each participating vodokanal will be responsible for the
preparation of bidding documents, designs and specifications, evaluation of bids and awarding contracts.
Each vodokanal will set up a Local Project Implementation Unit (LPIU) which will be responsible for
procurement and other project activities. The staff will consist of vodokanal own staff. Staff will receive
(or has already received) procurement training in seminars organized by their design consultants in
collaboration with the Bank's Field Office in Moscow. Qualified procurement advisors will be hired to
assist the NFHR and participating vodokanals and to ensure compliance with the Bank procurement rules.
NFHR will assist and oversee the procurement operations of LPIUs. All procurement documents need to
cleared by the NFHR before they are sent for the Bank's no-objection.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Action Plan under the FMA includes a timetable for the NFHR to progressively meet in full the Bank's
PMR requirements. Reporting arrangements for the transition period have been discussed under the FMA
and were confirmed at negotiations. Initially, the financial statements to be submitted would include the
following: For the project, (i) project sources and uses of funds; (ii) uses of funds by project activity; (iii)
project balance sheet; (iv) project cash withdrawals; and (v) Special Account statement; and for the entity
(NHFR), (i) balance sheet; (ii) income statement; and (ii) cash flow statement. The financial statements
will be submitted quarterly within one month of the end of the relevant quarter; audit reports by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will be submitted annually. The NFHR will also submit other
reports in regard to progress of project implementation as follows: (i) procurement (semi-annually); and
(ii) project output monitoring indicators (annually). The NFHR, with input from the LPIUs, would prepare
a detailed mid-term report to serve as the basis for a Project Mid-Term Review. The NFHR and the LPIUs
would also prepare and submit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months of the
- 12 -



Closing Date of the Bank loan. Included in the ICR would be an assessment of the execution of the project,
its costs and benefits derived or to be derived, the performance of the Borrower, the vodokanals, the Bank
and other agencies involved in the Project regarding their respective obligations and accomplishments, and
lesson learned.  An Early Implementation Assessment will be undertaken in the first year of
implementation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposed project would be the first operation in the urban water supply sector for medium-size cities in
Russia. Given the significant institutional, financial, and technical problems that vodokanals currently
face, simplicity in design and realistic objectives are indispensable. Conceptually, the project would follow
a two-pronged approach to improvement of utility operations: on one hand, the rehabilitation of a limited
number of existing key elements of operational infrastructure, and, on the other hand, the implementation in
parallel of a few well-defined and critical changes in the governance, financial and managerial aspects of
the vodokanals through technical assistance support.
The alternatives for project design considered and rejected included:
"Tough" vs. "Lenient" Oualitv of Entrv Requirements. There were debates as to the level of ambition that
should be required from vodokanals in terms of cormnitment for institutional, financial, and technical
reform. Based on the findings of the Sector Study and extensive discussions with the governnent, Gosstroi,
the Ministry of Finance, and representatives of the Russian sector community, it was decided that insisting
on extensive reform was the only way to ensure project sustainability and set the necessary institutional
reform process in motion. The Ministry of Finance fully supports this approach and wants to ensure that
the vodokanal's financial situation ensures repayment of the sub-loans. A staged approach was followed to
demonstrate the commitment of all participants. During project preparation, vodokanals and municipalities
were asked to confirn their commitment to the project principles and approach. There was consensus on
the following main conditions for sub project selection and conditionality: (i) introduction of tariffs and
commitment to irnprove collections to generate and collect sufficient revenues to meet operating costs,
adequate maintenance expenses, counterpart funding requirements, and loan repayment by the end of the
project implementation period; (ii) increase cash collection in a linear progression to achieve at least 60%
of collected revenue by the end of sub-project implementation; (iii) use of loan funding for institutional
strengthening and facilities rehabilitation and efficiency improvements only; (iv) deposit by the vodokanal
of an amount equivalent to the following three months of expected local contribution to sub-project capital
expenditures in a local project account; (v) phase-out of municipal subsidies over the period of project
implementation using a linear schedule; and (vi) no increase in mandated benefits to preferred customers.
Specific details on these conditions are presented in the Sub-project Appraisal Documents. The 14
vodokanals participating in the project have all complied with the financial conditions required for
participation in the negotiations of the project. Several vodokanals and municipalities decided to drop out
of the project due to the difficulty in reaching the proposed entry requirements.
Loan Amount Based on Financial Capacity of Vodokanals vs. Capital Subsidies from Central
Government. The original request of the Government was for a US$300 million loan and a maximum
number of sub-projects to maximize the development impact and to secure the commitment of as many
local governments and vodokanals as possible in support of the reform agenda. The Government and the
Bank agreed that the size of sub-loans to individual vodokanals would be determined by the financial
capacity of each vodokanal as determined by political commitment to tariff increases and rigorous
- 13 -



collection while considering the consumers' willingness and ability to pay. This is a significant departure
from past practices where all capital investments in the water supply and wastewater systems were
financed by the municipalities and were not included in the tariff calculations. While the alternative
selected to calculate the sub-loan amounts meant that the size of the investments that could be financed in
each participating vodokanal is small compared to what would be needed to fully rehabilitate the water and
wastewater systems - and much smaller than original expectations - participating local governments and
vodokanals accepted this approach. The financial crisis of Russia in August 1998 made necessary a
financial reevaluation of the loan amounts for two reasons. First, the financial situation of vodokanals
deteriorated since the first evaluation done in 1997 because of a decrease in revenues collected, an increase
in operational expenses, a decrease in industrial consumption, and tariff increases that were not able to
collect sufficient revenues to cover expenses. Second, the four-fold drop of the ruble/US dollar exchange
rate made the repayment of the loan in rubles much more expensive. The recalculations of the sub-loan
amounts resulted in a range between US$1 million to US$25 per individual vodokanal. The total loan
amount was reduced to US$122.5 million.
Considering Vodokanals in Medium-Size Cities vs. Larre-Size Cities. According to present legislation,
information and technical documentation about the water and wastewater systems of cities of more than
500,000 inhabitants is considered a state secret. Large cities (e.g., St. Petersburg and Orenburg) have
managed to obtain from the Federal security agencies a special waiver to permit preparation and
implementation of a water project. However, such a waiver is only secured after a long process of review
and clearance by several security agencies. The Government and the Bank agreed at the time that working
with cities of less than 500,000 inhabitants would speed up project preparation, and that it had the
additional benefit of promoting the reform agenda in many different regions and cities of the Russian
Federation. The project design with participation of medium-size cities from a broad spectrum of regions is
expected to provide important lessons for application for the large portion of population in the medium-size
category.
Immediate Investment and Management StrenWthening and Operational Improvement Programs vs.
Master Investment Plan Defined Up-front. The traditional approach of selecting a long-termn investment
plan during project preparation through a master plan and detailed feasibility work was rejected because
these conventional supply-driven investment projects are not conducive to an efficient use of resources both
in cost and size. The water and wastewater systems in all participating cities face very large needs in
investments and the decision on the most appropriate sequence of projects requires a data collection and
analysis effort that would be impossible to undertake during project preparation given the existing time and
cost constraints. The job is made more difficult by the fact that most vodokanals do not have reliable
information on which these decisions can be based. In order to advance project preparation and bring some
initial improvements to the quality and reliability of the services, and, at the same time, reduce the cost of
preparation, the investment program was divided in two parts: (i) Immediate Investment Program: high
priority and easily justifiable investments opportunities with a scope and benefits that could be clearly
defned during the early project preparation; they are expected to bring small but noticeable improvements
in services (quality and cost savings), and at the same time demonstrate action to the consumer to boost the
image of the vodokanal to facilitate the financial, collection, and tariff reforms required; and (ii)
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program, limited to institutional strengthening
and facilities rehabilitation and efficiency improvements, identified with the assistance of the consultants as
part of the technical assistance program executed during project implementation. Such approach is more
appropriate than the more traditional way of determining all investments up front, as it gives the vodokanal
experts with the support of international consultants the time and resources needed to understand the
present short comings of existing facilities and to identify, analyze and compare alternatives and then to set
priorities and fnally decide on truly least cost and priority investments.
- 14 -



Technical Assistance vs. Private Sector Responsibility. The private sector has become an ever more
important partner in sector development - as investor and/or operator - in many parts of the world. The
intervention of private operators would be instrumental in helping imnprove sector management and
operations in Russia. However, present macroeconomic uncertainties, the current financial and legal
conditions, and the lack of understanding and information about the physical systems and the customers,
rule out foreign investment in the form of concessions or BOTs for the time being, at least in the smaller
cities covered under this project in diverse regions of the Russian Federation. Initially, the most likely form
of private sector involvement would be management type contracts with foreign or domestic partners that
does not expose the operator to any large financial risk, but even these would be difficult to secure under
present conditions. Therefore the project does not require any private sector involvement at this stage.
However, the technical assistance activities in the MSOIP, to be provided by international consultants with
operational experience, will focus on the improvement of the financial viability of vodokanals and the
provision of reliable  information (technical, financial, and commercial) of vodokanals.  These
improvements are expected to provide the basis for future private sector involvement in the management of
vodokanals and for private finance of sector investments.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
To date, Bank lending to the water and sewerage sector in Russia is limited to the Russia Community
Social Infrastructure Project, Loan 4009, which includes a US$62.9 million water supply component in the
Rostov and Novosibirsk Oblasts. This component was defined before the preparation of the water and
sewerage sector study and the conception of the present project. For this reason, the water and sewerage
sector reform conditions in the above mentioned project are less rigorous than those required under this
project.
Other Bank loans for projects in the urban services sector include the Housing, St. Petersburg
Rehabilitation and Urban Transport Projects. Implementation of the Bank projects was affected by the
financial crisis in 1998; however, agreement to address the problems, including appropriate restructuring
and re-orientation, was reached and the implementation of these and other projects has improved
considerably. Development objectives are expected to be achieved, albeit on a lesser scale than planned.
Related urban services projects under preparation include the District Heating and Moscow Urban
Transport Projects. Among the development agencies, the EBRD has made a loan to the city of St.
Petersburg for a Water and Environment Services Project which is ongoing. In addition, a number of
bilateral funding agencies have made loans for water supply and sewerage services in specific regions.
- 15-



LaStupervislon
Sector Issue                       Projeit                : PSi) Ratirngs
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ :   : _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (B anl-flnaI cecd p roj ct   oly )
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Transformation of municipal housing   Russia Housing Project           U              S
markets towards market -economy     US$400 million
principles and stimulation of municipal ID Code: RU-PE-8827
land development, and commercially    Signed 1995 Closing Date
financed private housing infrastructure  2001
Preserving urban transport capacity in  Russia Urban Transport Project  U             S
14 cities by financing urgently needed  US$329 million
replacement vehicles and spare parts   ID Code: RU-PE-8806
linked to implementation of reforms and Signed 1995 Closing Date
technical assistance to increase    2001
efficiency
Prevention of deterioration in health,   Russia Community Social        S             S
education and environmental facilities  Infrastructure Project
in the Rostov and Novosibirsk Oblasts  US$200 million
by financing urgent needed investments ID Code: RU-PE-35761
Signed 1996 Closing Date
2003
Rehabilitation and restoration of the    Russia St. Petersburg          S             S
city center, including preparation of a  Rehabilitation Project
strategic plan and financing of pilot    US$31 million
projects                            ID Code: RU-PE-42720
Signed 1996 Closing Date
2002
Institutional strengthening of urban  Russia Moscow Urban
traffic management in Moscow City    Transport Project (under
and related pilot investment projects   preparation)
US$60 million
ID Code: RU-PE-46061
Efficiency improvement of municipal   Russia District Heating Project
heat supply systems and institutional   (under preparation)
improvements to operation of municipal US$100 million
heating enterprises on a commercial    ID Code: RU-PE-38551
basis
Other development agencies
Arresting the decline of water and  Agency: EBRD
wastewater services, institutional  St. Petersburg Water and
improvements and development of St.  Environment Services (ongoing)
Petersburg Vodokanal towards self   DM 127 million
financing utility.                  Signed: 1997 Closing Date:
2005
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 16 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
While water and sanitation projects are being prepared or undew way in most of the transition countries
(e.g. Armenia, Kazakhstan, Poland, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Ukraine and the Baltic countries),
the Bank involvement in the sector is still at the beginning . However, the Bank's experience in the sector
worldwide and the limited experience of the Bank's activity in transition countries do provide valuable
guidance for this project. One of the main lessons is that poor quality of entry often results in unrealistic
expectations and overoptimistic projections with the result that many projects fall short of meeting the
institutional and financial development targets of these projects. The project design takes into account such
experiences and relies on up front actions. It requires realistic commitment by addressing "disabling" sector
policies up front, and takes into account the social and political dimension of the reform agenda. The
seriousness with which participating local government authorities and vodokanal were prepared to adhere
to reform and strengthening objectives was tested throughout project preparation. As a result, only
municipal governments and vodokanal which agreed to the project's reform principles and complied with
initial "self-selection" conditions to demonstrate their commitment were included in the project.
The proposed project takes into consideration past Bank's experiences, particularly in the context of
transition countries, where the need for reform and the unfamiliarity of clients with the Bank and its
procedures are more pronounced than in the countries where the Bank has operated for many years.
Learning from past experience, the following has been taken into account with respect to quality of project
entry and commitment: (i) secure the commitment of the beneficiary vodokanal and the local and regional
government to the project's financial reform objectives up front, i.e. basic decisions on adequate tariffs to
be in place prior to inclusion of a vodokanal in negotiations and for the sub-project to become effective; (ii)
project cost and loan amount was agreed on the basis of a realistic assessment of the vodokanal's financial
capacity, particularly after the 1998 financial crisis, and given the level of tariffs that municipal authorities
considered to be socially acceptable for their constituents; (iii) clear understanding and full agreement of
the municipal authorities and vodokanal managers on the Immediate Investment Program; (iv) provision of
technical assistance to the vodokanals to identify, design and implement mandatory programs of
institutional strengthening and facilities rehabilitation and efficiency improvements; loan set asides for the
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program can only be used for undertakings
recommended by the consultant, and approved by the vodokanal and the Bank; (v) building of a strong
project implementation capacity early on through the creation of a project implementation unit at NFHR
staffed with a core group of experienced Russian specialists that have been fully involved, from the early
stages, in all aspects of the preparation of the project; (vi) completion of bidding packages for the first year
of investments and hiring of consultants for preparation of bidding packages for the entire Immediate
Investment Program by Board presentation; and (vi) procurement for first-year investments, preparation of
draft bidding documents for the majority of the Immediate Investmnent Program, as well as the hiring of the
key consultants is expected to be completed at the time of project effectiveness. The bidding documents for
about 45% of the total investments are expected to be ready by effectiveness.
- 17 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The cooperation of Gosstroi and other ministries - Finance, Economy, Environment - in the preparation and
dissemination of the conclusions of the sector study was exemplary and clearly expresses support for the
reform agenda at the Federal Government level. Gosstroi's efforts for organizing the project selection
seminar in December 1996, the international sector conference in April 1997, and the continued support
during project post-appraisal activities after the financial crisis of 1998, indicated strong public support for
the sector reform agenda. Also the willingness of the government to assume loan repayment for the
activities of the Technical Assistance Program that could be reproduced in other cities and the financing of
the project implementation arrangements at NFHR indicate a keen interest by the government to implement
the lessons learned from this project on the sector reformn.
The fact that prospective candidates for vodokanal projects - in full knowledge of future project
conditionalities, particularly as regards the necessary increase in tariffs - sent high level delegations to
Moscow on several occasions to discuss the project with the Bank team, is a clear demonstration of their
interest. Their continued support, even after the significant reduction of sub-loan sizes related to the
smaller borrowing capacity of the vodokanals after the devaluation of the ruble in 1998, indicate a strong
commitment to the project approach on the part of those vodokanals that agreed to continue in the project
and complied with the commitments required. On these occasions, and during field visits, discussions were
held with the representatives of each of the participating regional and municipal governments and
vodokanals to agree on the details of the proposed individual investment project and on the schedule of
tariff and collection reforrn necessary to support the proposed loans.
During appraisal, all important stakeholders, regional, municipal governments and vodokanal management,
agreed to the following loan conditions: (i) undertake programs of institutional reform and strengthening;
(ii) accept the assistance of consultants for the preparation and implementation of the MSOIP; (iii) reach
and maintain a minimum acceptable financial capacity through tariff rationalization and increases and
collections that would allow vodokanals to generate revenues sufficient to maintain and operate their
facilities adequately and provide counterpart funding for investmnents - 10% of net investment cost, duties
and taxes - and loan repayment; and (iv) concentrate investments on cost effective and priority programs of
facilities rehabilitation and efficiency improvements.
During post-appraisal, the Bank agreed with the Government, along with the vodokanals, municipalities,
and oblasts on a series of financial targets to be complied with prior to inclusion of a city in the project.
The 14 vodokanals that are included in the project submitted documented evidence of tariff increases
estimated to be sufficient to collect enough revenues to at least: (i) cover the expected operating and
adequate maintenance costs during the current fiscal year, and (ii) reach one half of the increase in collected
revenue required for project initiation (which includes project related costs). Table 4.1 presents the tariffs
(weighted average) as of 1998 and targets set for negotiations (additional details are presented in Annex 5).
Additionally, the vodokanals were required to achieve by September 15, 1999 a cash collection at least
equal to the same level of the previous year, as the first step towards the improvement schedule. The cash
collection ratio condition requires each vodokanal to achieve at least: (i) the same percentage of overall
collection as in 1998 plus all project related expenses, as described above, and (ii) if cash collection in
1998 was less than 60% of overall collection, the same percentage of cash collection as in 1998 plus the
linear increase between the level of 1998 and 60% required for 2004 (Table 4.2). The participating
vodokanals achieved or exceeded the set targets.
- 18 -



Table 4.1: Domestic Tariff Increases Required Prior to Negotiations
City        Tariffs 1998    Tariffs Required by
|   (R/m3)  August 1, 1999 (R/m3)
Astrakhan        0.420             0.833
Cheboksary        0.333            0.509
Gagarin         0.496             0.879
Kansk          1.035             3.532
Nakhodka         0.618             1.441
Cheol          0.233             0.370
Pechora         2.399             3.821
Petrozavodsk      0.638             0.638
Pskov          0.929             1.764
Sochi          0.523             0.523
Tobolsk         0.948             1.470
Volkhov         0.611             1.123
Vologda         0.589             0.770
Votkinsk         0.351            0.505
Table 4.2: Cash Collection Targets for Participation in Project
City Name Target of Cash as % Cash as % of Collected
______ of Collected Revenues Revenues Jan-Aug 1999
Astrakhan          45%                  48%
Cheboksary          19%                 23%
Gagarin             35%                 48%
Kansk               8%                  23%
Nakhodka            6%                  42%
Oryol              21%                  33%
Pechora             7%                  40%
Petrozavodsk        14%                 23%
Pskov               33%                 36%
Sochi              70%                  73%
Tobolsk             25%                 29%
Volkhov             36%                 41%
Vologda             12%                 32%
Votkinsk            26%                 40%
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Federal government authorities have repeatedly indicated that the involvement of the Bank is essential for
the design and implementation of the country's first significant municipal water and wastewater project.
The Government of the Russian Federation wishes the project to serve as a model to be used to disseminate
and promote sector reform to other municipalities of the Russian Federation.
The Bank is playing an important catalytic role in attracting significant donor support for water and
wastewater sector reform and rehabilitation. The Bank has been able to help mobilize technical and
financial support from seven bilateral donors (Sweden, Finland, the US, France, Italy, the Netherlands and
Japan) in the preparation phase. Table 5.1 presents the sources of support for the various technical,
institutional, financial, and engineering studies completed during project preparation for the 14 vodokanals.
Additional studies were completed with the support of donor countries for other cities that chose not to
continue with project preparation.
-19-



Table 5.1: Donor Support for Project Preparation
City           Institutional, financial,   Technical analysis and   Preparation of Bidding
willingness-to-pay and affordability    definition of immediate  Documents for Immediate
analysis                  investments           Investment Program
Astrakhan     PHRD (Japan)                   Netherlands               Netherlands
Cbeboksari    USAID                          Italy                     Finland
Gagarin       USAID                          Netherlands               Netherlands
Kansk         USAID                          USTDA                     Self
Nakhodka      Japan                          Japan                     Self
Oryol         USAID                          Sweden                    Sweden
Pechora       USAID                          Finland                   Finland
Petrozavodsk  USAID                          Finland                   Finland
Pskov         USAID                          Sweden                    Sweden
Sochi         USAID                          USTDA                     Self
Tobolsk       USAID                          Netherlands               Netherlands
Volkhov       PHRD (Japan)                   France                    Sweden
Vologda       PHRD (Japan)                   France                    Sweden
Votkinsk      USAID                          USTDA                     Finland
Finland, Sweden and United Kingdom have agreed to support also the project implementation phase. They
are anticipated to participate in: (i) the financing of the preparation of designs and bidding documents for
the MSOIP in selected cities; (ii) procurement support; and (iii) technical assistance program.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
l. Economic (see Annex 4):
O  Cost benefit       NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Weak management plagues the utilities benefiting from the project. The central focus in this project on
institutional strengthening responds directly to that problem. In concert with management improvements
must come system physical rehabilitation that will allow the improvements in water quality and supply
security needed to convince consumers to meet the higher tariffs that will be implemented. Project
preparation established rules for vodokanal participation designed to ensure that only utilities with high and
demonstrated commitment to the needed reforms qualified for funds. In addition to fostering consumer
confidence, physical rehabilitation offers abundant high return investment opportunities. These include
measures to reduce physical water losses, to substantially reduce energy consumption, to increase
efficiency of network operations and quality of service, and to increase water and wastewater treatment
efficiency.
In each participating vodokanal, intemational consultants worked with local staff to identify rehabilitation
priorities, constrained by current vodokanal financing abilities. However, the estimated economic return to
each physical investment has a larger confidence interval than would be common for better documented
utilities. For example, when water supply systems have not been metered, calculation of water losses can
be estimated only by comparing the physical characteristics of the system -age pipe and pipe joint type-- to
similar systems with known histories, and using the latter histories to estimate performance. Fortunately,
engineers can call on broad intemational experience with water systems to make such estimates, and have
been the key actors in helping the vodokanals identify interventions. The long run social and economic
benefit to this project will come from equipping vodokanal management with the tools to document
performance of their systems, allowing improved targeting of future interventions, as large scale project
- 20 -



investments can be optimized only after system performance is much better understood.
In order to evaluate in more detail the operation of the water supply and wastewater networks and treatment
systems, only about 54 percent of anticipated rehabilitation investments have been specified at the time of
appraisal. These investments, which are part of the Immediate Investment Program, were selected because
they are demonstrably of the highest priority, are well-defined, clearly justified, and can bring an
identifiable benefit in the short-term. These investments cover a sufficient range of cities and interventions
to provide a reliable guide to economic returns to the program.
The economic assessment has been carried out for typical representative sample of physical rehabilitation
investments included in the Immediate Investment Program. These investments can be classified into four
categories: (i) energy savings and improvement in network operations and reliability, for example, through
installation of higher-efficiency pumps with more adequate specifications; (ii) reduction in water losses and
related improvement in quality of water supply service through rehabilitation and replacement of specific
sections of mains and distribution pipes with demonstrated technical problems and risk of failure; (iii)
water quality improvement through rehabilitation and upgrading of treatment facilities, only for those cases
with clearly identified deficiencies in water quality parameters of treated water that could be solved with
specific cost-effective physical interventions and where the quality problems are bad enough that they had
become serious political and social issues; and (iv) rehabilitation of wastewater treatment plant components
to improve the quality of effluent discharged into water bodies, and to reduce the associated environmental
deterioration and health risks, in specific cases where the deterioration of facilities and their location was
identified as a significant problem affecting the environment and economic activities.
In terms of volume of investments, the first two categories (energy savings/network operations
improvement and rehabilitation of wastewater treatment components) account for about 35 percent each of
the Immediate Investment Program, followed by water loss reduction and water quality improvement at
about 15 percent each of the Immediate Investmnent Program. The Management Strengthening and
Operational Improvement Program is expected to have a larger share of water loss reduction interventions,
after better technical information on the network and its deficiencies are collected during project
irnplementation. Details of the analysis for components in the Immediate Investment Program are available
in the Technical Assessment and Investment Proposal reports in the project files. A brief summary of the
economic analysis of a selected sample of investments is presented in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 80 million; FRR = 39 % (see Annex 4)
During preparation of the project, detailed financial assessments of each vodokanal were prepared, with
particular emphasis on the recasting of their financial statements according to Intemational Accounting
Standards. Financial statements of the vodokanals prepared according to Russian Accounting Standard
show significant profitability for 1995 and 1996. However, when the accounts were recast on the basis of
International Accounting Standards, the financial situation of the vodokanals shows significant losses.
The primary problems facing vodokanals in the area of finance include: (i) inadequate collection of service
charges; (ii) declining cash collections from the budget organizations and industrial consumers as a
percentage of billing; (iii) a highly distorted tariff structure with industrial tariffs providing large cross
subsidy to residential customers; (iv) existing tariffs that do not reflect true economic costs of providing
services (cost categories such as capital costs and bad debt expenses are not included in the calculation of
tariffs); (v) financial management and reporting practices that are inadequate for management decision
- 21 -



making; and (vi) inadequate short and medium term operating and capital planning.
A principal objective of the financial assessment of each vodokanal was to determine the size of individual
sub-loans. These sizes were decided based on the assessment conducted jointly between the vodokanals,
the municipal authorities and the Bank regarding the levels of tariffs and the improvements in collection
rates that could realistically be achieved under the project. A financial projection model was developed and
technical workshops were organized to train the staff of the vodokanals and municipal governments in
charge of the supervision of communal utilities in the use of the model for the purpose of tariff setting.
Municipal authorities agreed that, given the low starting point of domestic tariffs, there is a significant
potential for increasing them to a level that would provide the vodokanals with the revenue they need to at
least cover operational and adequate maintenance costs along with project-related expenses without
negative social impact. However, at the same time, the managers understood the need to increase
significantly collection of revenues.
After appraisal of the project in 1998, the financial crisis of the country and the fourfold devaluation of the
ruble affected significantly the financial situation of vodokanals. Specifically, bill collection decreased, the
portion of collected revenues in cash continued to be very small, maintenance expenses were decreased in
several vodokanals, the industrial consumption (one of the major sources of revenue for the vodokanals)
decreased significantly, and in many cases the tariff increases were not sufficient to collect sufficient
revenues to cover operation and maintenance costs. All these changes in the financial situation of
vodokanals required a reassessment of the individual sub-loans using updated information for 1998 and
1999. With the exception of three sub-loan amounts, all others had to be decreased. At that time, some of
the vodokanals decided not to continue in the project given the significant reduction, in line with the
self-selection approach of the project preparation.
The Sub-Project Appraisal Documents for each vodokanal describe in detail the changes in the financial
situation in 1997 and 1998, the evaluation of the sub-loan amounts, the corresponding projected tariff
increases, and the projections of the financial performance for the period 1999-2005. Annex 5 presents a
sumnmary of these projections.
Meeting financial requirements is essential for the implementation and sustainability of the sub projects.
The subsidiary loan agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, Gosstroi, the
participating regional and local governments, and the participating vodokanals contain financial covenants
and a specific financial improvement plan. The main financial covenant of the project is that vodokanals
should collect every fiscal year sufficient revenues to cover operational costs, adequate maintenance costs,
and all project-related expenses (including counterpart contributions, debt service, commitment fees and
other project fees). By April 30 of each year, the vodokanals will be required to furnish to the Bank
audited financial statements from the previous year, financial forecasts containing essential income
statement, source and application of funds, and balance sheet data and an update of the financial model
using the latest financial information for the current year and the next five years.  Based on the
post-appraisal projections, the weighted average tariffs would have to increase between 21% and 111% in
real terms over the project implementation period.
In order to increase the share of revenue collection in cash, rather than other common forms of payments
such as barter or off-sets, the vodokanals agreed to a linear progressive schedule of cash collection that
would allow them  to reach at least 60%  of overall collected revenues by the end of the project.
Additionally, in order to ensure availability of counterpart contributions to the project in cash, vodokanals
will be required to have a percentage of overall revenue collection in cash every year not smaller than the
same percentage that vodokanals had in 1998 plus all project related expenses.
- 22 -



In order to strengthen the financial situation of the vodokanals, the municipal and oblast governments
agreed not to increase mandated benefits to preferred customers. In order to meet the Government objective
to achieve gradually full cost recovery of municipal services, it was agreed to phase-out municipal
subsidies over the period of project implementation, thereby changing the sources of revenue to the actual
consumers of the vodokanal services.
Another very important element to ensure that the vodokanals were ready for the project and the
municipalities committed to the reforms and approach was to make participation dependent on actual
implementation of the first agreed tariff increase and to achieve improvements in cash collections. The
conditions of participation and the achievement of vodokanals are presented in Section D.4.
The financial analysis at the sub-project level demonstrates that the financial gains from implementing the
agreed tariff and collection targets and from the estimated reduction in operating and maintenance costs are
significant. The total financial net present value of all sub-projects was calculated to be about US$80
million and the financial IRR 39%.
As part of ongoing monitoring of the financial viability of vodokanals, and in compliance with the
agreements achieved at negotiations, a review of vodokanals' financial performance was carried out in
August 2000. The purpose of the review was to make sure that the vodokanals consistently conformed to
the conditions for Board Presentation of the Project, described in detail in Section G of the Project
Appraisal Document. It was agreed that the review would comprise the following indicators calculated
using the accounting and financial data obtained from vodokanals: (i) Working Ratio defined as the ratio of
costs on accrual basis net of depreciation to collected revenues; (ii) Collection Ratio defined as the ratio of
collected revenue to accrued (or billed) revenue; (iii) Cash collection ratio defined as the ratio of revenue
collected in the form of cash to the overall collected revenue. A vodokanal was considered to have been
qualified for Project entry if its Working Ratio was less than 1, Collection Ratio greater than 60% and
Cash Collection Ratio equal to or greater than the target established for year 2000 as indicated in Annex S.
Each of the 14 reviewed vodokanals considered for the Project was found in compliance with the
established thresholds.
Although the survey covered just six months of 2000, certain parallels can be drawn with the performance
of the vodokanals in 1999 adjusted to reflect a half-year period, although seasonal factors have not been
netted out for the purpose of such comparison. The comparison showed that in the first six months of year
2000, as compared to half-year data of 1999, the average increase in billed revenues of 14 vodokanals was
24%, with the median at 18%, ranging from the maximum of 87% in Kansk to the 12% decrease in
Volkhov (in the latter case matched by 12% decrease in sales volume, explained by the seasonal factors);
the average increase in the amount of collected revenue was 35%, with the median at 17%, ranging from
the maximum of 150% in Pechora to the 17% decrease in Volkhov. In addition to the explanation provided
above, it has to be noticed that even at such decrease, collections still surpassed billings as the vodokanal
was getting overdue receivables of the past years; average increase in collected cash was 74%, with the
median at 46%, ranging from 228% in Kansk to 8% decrease in Volkhov. It is important to add, that out of
the 14 vodokanals surveyed, it was only Volkhov that demonstrated a decrease in the absolute values of its
billed revenues, collected revenues and collected cash. All other vodokanals showed upward tendencies in
their performance.
Fiscal Impact:
The project design will, on net, provide fiscal relief. However, not all levels of government will benefit
- 23 -



equally. The biggest winners will be municipalities, which now subsidize the water supply and wastewater
treatment programs. Those subsidies vary widely among project cities, ranging from 0 to 12 percent of
annual municipal expenditures. Given the difficult fiscal situation of municipalities, only six of the 14
participating cities provide subsidies to vodokanals. During project preparation, municipalities agreed to
phase out all direct subsidies during project implementation. As part of the technical assistance activities,
international and local consultants will prepare specific proposals for targeted subsidies to support the truly
poor rather than broad categories of preferred customers. The impact on the central government budget
will be negative, but slight. Part of the cost of technical assistance and all NFHR operations -about $8.4
million or 5.0 % of project costs- will be assumed by the govenmment of the Russian Federation. Part of
those costs will be recovered through a 2% spread on on-lending to the vodokanals. The fiscal impact of
the resulting debt service will be negligible for the central govemment.
3. Technical:
A detailed description of the water and wastewater facilities and proposed investments in rehabilitation and
efficiency improvements are contained in the sub-project appraisal documents. Water and wastewater
systems in most of the cities are in an advanced stage of physical deterioration. Poor designs, the use of
sub-standard equipment and materials and construction practices, and severe under-investment in
maintenance, repair and rehabilitation are responsible for the poor state of affairs. Water and wastewater
systems also suffer from large scale inefficiencies, including excessive water consumption/wastage by
consumers not accustomed to water conservation, high leakage rates from the pipe network, hydraulic
inefficiencies due to poor pressure zoning, bottlenecks, and inefficient operation of plants. Of great concem
is high energy consumption estimated to be twice as high compared to efficiently functioning systems in
Westem Europe and North America. Consultants who prepared the projects report that large parts of the
water and wastewater systems in the cities eventually will have to be rebuilt entirely at great cost.
Beginning the rehabilitation work is urgent and essential in order to avoid further deterioration and forestall
the imminent collapse of key parts of the system. Likewise, the initiation of programs to improve system
efficiencies is essential to begin reducing excessive operating costs, particularly the cost of electricity,
which puts a large strain on the poor finances of the vodokanals.
All proposed investments are allocated exclusively for institutional strengthening and the initiation of
programs of system rehabilitation and efficiency improvements. The small amount of funding available
under the project makes it difficult to choose among many urgent investment needs. The challenge in
selecting investments is to ensure that the limited resources available are used such that they bring the
highest benefits in terms of both improving service quality to the consumer and operational efficiencies.
The investment selection strategy adopted for all sub-projects is designed to keep the risk of poor
investment selection to a rninimum possible. The investment program for each vodokanal distinguishes
between the Immediate Investment Program selected by consultants and vodokanals during the course of
project preparation and the Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program that will be
selected by the vodokanal with the assistance of consultants. The IIP has been approved and consists of
investments which have high priority from technical and service quality perspective and will reduce
operating (especially energy) costs. The identification of the interventions in the MSOIP will begin with a
thorough analysis of the existing systems and facilities, including for instance mapping, pilot metering to
establish system flows, comprehensive analysis of leaks in the water and wastewater network and in depth
analysis of all the water and wastewater treatment plants and pumping stations. Based on these analyses,
the vodokanals together with their consultants, will propose how the project funds available for the MSOIP
would be spent most cost-effectively.
Equipment, materials and construction work to be financed under the project will be required to meet
-24 -



appropriate standards of international quality and best practice. Supervision of construction to international
standards will be required. These requirements are essential to ensure that the investments supported under
the project meet cost effective standards of useful life and efficiency. Investment and recurrent cost
estimates for the project are based on estimates of prevailing market unit cost (including recent experience
in procurement under Bank-financed project in other transition economies), with appropriate allowance for
inflation. An adequate allowance for physical contingencies has also been included in project costs.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
NFHR and Local Project Implementation Units
The National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR) will assume the responsibility for the project
implementation. NHFR already provides support to the Ministry of Finance and to Gosstroi in the
administration of the Bank-supported Housing Project (Loan 3850-RU). The Government has decided to
use the project management and project accounting expertise already built up in the Foundation to
administer the proposed project, and later, the proposed District Heating Project. The Charter of the
Foundation has been modified to incorporate these two new projects. The nucleus of the implementation
unit will be a group of Russian specialists, who have been part of the Project Review Unit under the
coordination of Gosstroi. This group has gained considerable experience through their involvement in the
project from its inception. The project management capabilities of the NFHR core staff was assessed
during appraisal and found to be satisfactory. The group of specialists in the NFHR will be strengthened
with additional specialists, particularly in procurement. Additionally, improvements needed in terms of
staffing, training, and technical assistance, as well as the preparation of an Operational Manual that would
cover inter alia financial management arrangements and procedures, were discussed with the project
entities under the FMA. The FMA and the Action Plan are attached in Annex SA.
Local project implementation units (LPIUs) will be set up in each of the participating vodokanals. The
LPIUs would have the staffing necessary for sub-project implementation. An important challenge of the
proposed project is the very limited executing capacity of the vodokanals, the lack of any previous
experience with World Bank projects or other Intemational Financing Agencies (IFIs), and the limited
planning and administrative capacity. To assure satisfactory project preparation and implementation,
substantial assistance is planned to be provided. In project management aspects, the LPIUs would be
responsible for undertaking the procurement and technical supervision activities for their particular
sub-projects in accordance with the Bank's requirements as specified in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(SLAs). The procurement specialists in the LPIUs will receive all the necessary training to ensure
familiarity with Bank guidelines. The first phase of this training has been done by the procurement unit of
the Bank's field office in Moscow as part of the review of the bidding documents for the Immediate
Investment Program of each city. International experts will provide support in procurement matters to all
LPIUs. The NFHR will provide guidance and technical assistance to the LPIUs, as appropriate, and will
monitor their compliance with the terms of the SLAs. However, to ensure that all fiduciary responsibilities
are complied with and facilitate management and auditing of accounts, the NFHR will manage all local
project accounts and maintain all relevant records.
The Operating Companies - Vodokanals (Institutional Assessment in Project Files):
The operating companies are all vodokanals, i.e. water and sewerage enterprises. Originally set up as
- 25 -



departments within the municipalities, their organization and legal status has been changed to that of
municipal industrial enterprises pursuant to the legal reforms towards greater commercialization of urban
and communal service activities.  The municipalities concerned continue to be the owners of the
vodokanals. Water and sewerage infrastructure assets are owned by the municipalities, but operated by the
vodokanals under agreements with the municipalities. The Housing and Communal Services departments
in the municipalities are in most cases responsible for general oversight of the activities of the vodokanals.
Responsibilities for day to day management have been transferred to the vodokanal management, headed by
the Director, with the powers to select and appoint his management team and staff. Organizational
management within the vodokanals is on functional lines, with heads of sections responsible for technical
operations, commercial and financial operations, and human resources and administrative matters.
Investment and operating budgets of the vodokanals are approved annually by the relevant committees of
the municipalities concemed. The average level of tariffs is based on revenue requirements as projected by
the vodokanal, taking into account projected revenues and expenditures for the year. In principle, the
average tariff level is based on coverage of total operating expenditures, including depreciation charges in
accordance with applicable rules, plus a margin of about 15%. However, certain costs are not included in
the tariff calculation such as bad debts, interest on capital investments, bonuses to employees, and
employee health benefits. These costs can only be paid out of the "profitability" margin. In practice, since
any increase in tariffs has to be approved by a Tariff and Pricing Committee in the municipalities, and is
further subject to clearance at the Oblast level, the accepted tariff level is a political decision. The project
provides safeguards in this respect through the conditionalities in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. The
commitment to a reform in the practice of tariff setting has been demonstrated by participating vodokanals
with the first tariff increase approved and implemented prior to negotiations. As part of the technical
assistance program, intemational and local consultants will develop and support the implementation of new
policies, procedures for setting tariffs - levels and structures - and procedures for adjusting tariffs in
response to financial requirements and as a tool for demand management
Technical operations management and staff are, in general, experienced and resourceful in operating and
maintaining their systems in an environment of increasing resource constraints, affecting plant and
equipment operation through lack of adequate maintenance and spare parts. They have had limited
exposure to the modem developments and advances in the field, but are receptive to utilizing the help of
qualified, outside experts to help them improve operations. Other essential functions, including commercial
billing and collection, financial planning, and accounting have traditionally received less attention. With
the increasingly tight financial situation in the face of difficulties in revenue collection and reduction in
financial support from the municipalities, the vodokanals have been forced to start improving their
capabilities in these areas. Nevertheless, substantial progress is needed to develop commercial and
financial management capabilities. Customer records and billing are still largely based on, and constrained
by, manual recording systems. Use of computers is still very limited. Accounting is also largely manually
performed.  Accounting information and recording is primarily in the form  of bookkeeping for
administrative purposes, and does not provide timely, reliable and accurate information either for internal
management decision-making and control, or for external reporting for investors and creditors. Major
improvements are needed in these areas and one of the key areas where the technical assistance program
will focus is the development and implementation of financial and commercial systems adapted to the local
conditions. Under the MSOIP, international consultants will work closely with the NFHR, LPIUs and the
vodokanals to provide technical assistance in these areas.   Engagement of the technical assistance
consultants, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.2 Project management:
An inter-ministerial committee was created by the Government, including representatives of the Ministry of
- 26 -



Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Economy, the State Committee for Environmental Protection, and
Gosstroi, responsible for the overall direction and strategic oversight of the Project. The MOF will be
responsible for the financial aspects of the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements, and for
monitoring, jointly with Gosstroi, the financial position of the vodokanals. Overall management and
supervision of the project will be the responsibility of Gosstroi. Day-to-day implementation and
administration of the project will be executed on behalf of Gosstroi by the National Foundation for Housing
Reform (NFHR).
4.3 Procurement issues:
Russia is a high-risk country from the procurement point of view. Qualified procurement advisors will be
hired to assist the NFHR and vodokanals to ensure compliance with the Bank procurement rules. Full
details of procurement arrangements are presented in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial Management Capacity: The financial management capacity within the Russian Federation is
currently the subject of a Country Financial Accountability Assessment which will be prepared in FY2001.
Primarily because of other implementation consideration, any weaknesses that may exist in the financial
management capacity in Russia have been mitigated for this project by the use of an existing PIU for
project implementation, including financial management, drawing on its experience on projects of this
nature and of auditors selected from the list of auditors eligible to conduct audits on Bank assisted projects.
The specific weaknesses of the PIU were addressed in an action plan which was implemented prior to
Board Presentation.
Special Account: Following the financial crisis of August 1998 the Government of Russia reduced the list
of Banks eligible to house IBRD Special Accounts. The Government and IBRD continue to monitor the
performance of the banking sector. The PIU will open a Special Account in one of the available eligible
banks.
Audit Covenants: NFHR is in full compliance with audit covenants of existing World Bank financed
Housing Project.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project has been classified as Category B, which requires a limited environmental review to identify
potential negative environmental impacts and propose mitigation and monitoring measures where needed. A
review of potential environmental impacts from the proposed investments has been carried out during the
project preparation process for each of the participating cities by the Vodokanals with the assistance of
foreign consultants. This will be complemented by sub- project specific Environmental Management Plans
(EMPs) that will be prepared, reviewed and approved by Russian authorities and the Bank prior to any
construction activities being undertaken in the concerned municipality.
The project is not anticipated to have significant negative environmental effects and will not result in any
involuntary resettlement or land acquisition since it focuses on rehabilitation of existing network and
facilities. All work will be executed either within the premises of existing facilities or within the right of
way of public streets.. The project will not finance construction of new facilities for water production,
water treatment, or wastewater treatment. Investments financed by the project will not affect any known
archeological or historical site or any critical natural habitats, nor will it entail resettlement or affect
- 27 -



indigenous peoples. None of the structures to be rehabilitated include dams.
Nevertheless, the project may cause some environmental impacts that require mitigation measures related
to: (i) inappropriate disposal of excavated materials, construction debris, and small quantities of hazardous
wastes and materials related to construction activities; (ii) damage caused by contractors during
construction activities; and (iii) nuisance during construction (noise, dust, and traffic disruption). The
contract documents include provisions for mitigation measures and/or avoidance. Participating vodokanals,
under the guidance of Gosstroi and the Bank, are preparing public meetings to discuss project objectives
and construction activities and their likely impacts on the environment and public at large.
OP 7.50, "International Waterways" applies to twelve sub-project , which are located on international
waterways as defined by paragraphs (a) or (b) of the policy. These include the cities of Astrakhan,
Cheboksary, Gagarin, Oryol, Petrozavodsk, Pskov, Sochi, Tobolsk, Volkhov, Vologda, and Votkinsk.
These sub-project involve rehabilitation of existing schemes and/or construction, which in the team's
judgment (i) will not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians; and (ii)
will not be adversely affected by the other riparians' water use. Given the nature of the planned
interventions to be supported by the sub-project and the fact that they will not adversely impact
downstream riparian countries, the exception to the external notification requirements of OP 7.50, as set
forth in paragraph 7(a) of the policy has been determined by LEGOP and ECSSD to apply in the case of
the project. To the extent that future sub-project sub-mitted by additional vodokanals or identified under
MSOIP may impact the environment within Russia and/or other riparian countries, they will have to
comply with the applicable policies and procedures of the Russian Federation and Bank.
The project is expected to result in environmental and health benefits because: (i) rehabilitation and
improved operation and maintenance of the water treatment plants will assure improved drinking water
quality, reduction in the use of chemicals and better handling of water treatment residuals; (ii) rehabilitation
of parts of the water supply network will reduce water losses and decrease the volume of water intake; (iii)
rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment plants will reduce the
risk of sewage spills, and assure improved quality of wastewater released after treatmnent and better
handling of solid and liquid wastes; (iv) pumping station rehabilitation will increase energy efficiency of the
vodokanals' operations; (v) improvement in operations will contribute to better day-to-day environmental
management (treatment plant waste management, handling of chemicals, improvement in operation and
maintenance of the sewerage network, including better emergency response; more efficient use of
information from the existing water quality monitoring networks; better compliance with environmental
regulations); and (vi) water conservation through demand management will reduce the need for construction
of new capacity for years to come. Environmental issues will also be addressed in the Corporate
Development Plans to be prepared under the project for each vodokanal. Potential environmental issues
related to investments included in the fourteen cities that will initially be supported by the project are
analyzed in the reports available in the Project Files; these will be complemented by sub-project specific
EMPs.
The project was reviewed and approved by the State Committee for the Ecology of the Russian Federation
during appraisal. All components of sub-project with potentially significant negative environmental
impacts, and particularly those with a construction budget over US$0.5M, will be reviewed by relevant
environmental authorities (either the Departrnent of State Ecological Expertise or its delegate at the
municipal level) to ensure compliance with the Russian Law on Environmental Expertise. They will also be
reviewed by the Bank for compliance with environmental and disclosure procedures. Review and approval
of projects that require this process, particularly those components that require an ETA (OVOS) under local
regulations, will take place prior to initiating construction. This procedure will also be followed for all
- 28 -



components of investments in the fourteen initial cities, as well as those in later phases of the project.
During project supported construction, supervision of implementation of the environmental management
plan for each sub-project will be one of the functions of the construction supervision consultants. The
project implementation unit at the Central Level (NFHR) will have the support of an advisor to ensure
compliance of the bidding documents for proposed sub-project with Russian and Bank environmental
guidelines. During project implementation, adequate resources will be made available for an environmental
specialist to be part of the Bank team during supervision missions, Mid-Term Review and Implementation
Completion Report. Contractors will be responsible, under the clauses of the bidding documents, for
keeping work sites pollution-free, returning sites to their original conditions, and minimizing dust, noise and
other work-related nuisances. They will also be responsible for notification of the discovery of any
previously unknown archeological and/or historical sites that may be found during excavation activities.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMPs for each sub-project will be prepared for the participating vodokanals with the support of
NFHR and the assistance of international consultants. The EMPs will include a description of the legal and
administrative framework of the environment sector with specific application to the sub-project , a
description of the baseline conditions, identification of potential environmental impacts; identification of
specific mitigation measures; and recommended monitoring actions. The EMPs will include information on
implementation and monitoring responsibilities and provide an estimated budget. The provisions already
included in contract documents and enforced through the EMP are adequate to minirnize potential negative
environmental impacts associated with project supported activities. The EMPs will be implemented by
participating vodokanals and supervised by engineering consultants, NFHR, and environmental authorities
at the municipal level.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
The project includes support for a number of site specific interventions to improve water and sewage
services in cooperating municipalities. Project supported activities in each municipality include preparation
of a feasibility study complemented by an EMP. The process used in the project is to have the feasibility
studies and the associated EMPs reviewed on a sub-project basis by both Russian environmental authorities
and the Bank before proceeding with the implementation process. The draft and final EMPs will be
disclosed in English and Russian on an ongoing basis during the course of project implementation, in the
cooperating municipalities, Resident Mission and InfoShop.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environrment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During the early phases of preparation, the technical, financial, environmental and social issues associated
with the overall project and specific sub-project were discussed in meetings attended by design consultants,
representatives of the municipality and various other stakeholders. Local press and other mass media
participated in these meetings. In addition, the participating vodokanals have used various methods of
informing the public of the upcoming project. Some vodokanals have regular time on local TVs where the
public is encouraged to call and representatives of the vodokanal and municipality respond to questions in a
live broadcast.
The EMPs for the sub-project include information on potential environmental impacts, proposed mitigation
measures and monitoring actions. The preparation process provides for consultations with representatives
from municipal authorities, universities and applied research institutes, NGOs and the general public.
-29 -



These meetings will be documented in the annexes to the EMPs.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environmental monitoring during the construction phase will be an element of the construction supervision
process. This work will be undertaken by an environmental specialist working as part of the team provided
by the engineering consultants and NFHR staff as part of their contract supervision duties. Responsibility
for environmental monitoring during the operation phase would rest with the vodokanal, whose
performance would be checked on a regular basis by the local environmental office. In addition, Bank
environmental specialists from the Resident Mission and headquarters will participate on a regular basis
during supervision to monitor implementation of the mitigation actions and monitoring measures included
in the EMP on a sub-project basis.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
As part of project preparation, social assessments have been carried out for three of the participating cities
(Gagarin, Oryol, and Nakhodka), with a more limited social impact analysis for the other participating
cities undertaken in the project feasibility studies. Additional relevant socio-economic information was
obtained from studies prepared under other donor-funded projects. Because of the representative nature of
the three cities for which full assessments are available, this information, taken together, provides a
reasonable basis for the social impact assessment of the project. In general, the beneficiary surveys reveal
that household consumers are dissatisfied with water supply services, which are perceived as being
irregular, of poor quality, and posing significant health risks. As a consequence of poor quality and
intermittent service, consumers are often forced to employ costly strategies, boiling water, purchasing
bottled water, using faucet filters and hoarding water. The surveys further show that consumers have little
understanding of the extent of the problems facing the water and wastewater utilities, and feel aggrieved
that they are not getting enough in return for their payments. In all the cases surveyed, the households
confirmed that they place a higher priority on improved water services than on wastewater services.
The surveys also indicate that households would be willing to pay significantly more, ranging from 2.5 to
3.6 percent of household income for improved water services, especially 24-hour availability and improved
quality. Estimates of adjusted willingness to pay (taking into account expenditures on altematives) in
Nakhodka, for example, indicate that households would be willing to pay up to 60 percent more than
existing tariff levels for improved water services. Affordability analyses conducted under the various
studies show that the required higher tariff levels would remain affordable for most households. Vulnerable
population segments, which include pensioner households living in single family dwellings, can be
addressed through improved targeting of consumer subsidies. This would be pursued with the participating
local governments in the course of project implementation.
Domestic water tariffs can be raised and revenue collections improved, provided consumers understand the
serious problems currently facing the vodokanals and are convinced that only through their contributions,
higher tariffs and prompt bill payment, can the vodokanals improve services. The vodokanals and local
governments thus face a major challenge to explain the problems of providing improved services, gain
consumers' trust, and convince them of the absolute necessity of higher revenue collections. An important
task of the technical assistance consultants, in this regard, would be to help organize and carry out public
information campaigns to increase consumers' awareness of the issues and elicit their cooperation. This
would need to be supplemented with the installation of consumer-friendly commercial systems by the
vodokanals.
- 30 -



During project implementation, adequate resources will be made available for a social scientist to be part of
the Bank supervision team including the Mid-Term Review and Implementation Completion Report.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project has been prepared in close collaboration with the participating municipalities, vodokanals,
regional authorities (Oblasts or Republics) and the Bank team. Specific social surveys were carried out in
three cities and all feasibility studies included affordability analysis. Meetings involving key stakeholders
referred to above were held in each city to discuss project objectives, impacts on water quality and
environment, and tariffs. Consultations will also be undertaken in the preparation of the Environmental
Management Plans for each sub-project In addition, under the technical assistance component, Ownership,
Regulatory and Utility Governance, the project will support measures to create modem management
structures for vodokanals that will include public representatives serving on their Board of Directors and
measures to increase the transparency of their operations.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The technical assistance component of the project to be implemented in all participating vodokanals
includes environmental management, public information and customer relation programs. These activities
will include involvement of key stakeholders and the public at large to build broad based commnitment to
new management arrangements for the vodokanal, adjustments in tariff structures, changes in water use
patterns and implementation of the Environmental Management Plan. Previous experience in the Baltic
countries has demonstrated the importance of undertaking regular consultations with the public when
implementing projects for water and sewage utilities. This process will include systematic provision of
environmental information on vodokanal operations to the public and establishment of close working
relations with media and NGOs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project will implement investments aimed at improving the quality and reliability of drinking water and
reducing environmental pollution according to specific performance indicators outlined in the Loan
Agreement and to be developed in detail early in project implementation. This will be supervised carefully
by the NFHR and the Bank.
The technical assistance component of the project will develop and implement public information and
customer relations programs for each participating vodokanal. It is expected that consumers and the public
at large will have a considerable role in future development of the project components in the second phase
(MSOIP).
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The agreed performance indicators include water quality, reduction of water losses and energy efficiency. It
is also expected that the detailed performance indicators to be developed during early project
implementation will include consumer surveys with satisfaction indexes. The affordability of the tariffs is a
key concern for the project success. Tariffs need to be raised especially for the domestic consumers but at
the same time it is expected that the system of targeted subsidies to those in real need would prevent the
cost of water services to become excessive for the low income groups. This will be monitored during the
project implementation using available income data, and specific social surveys if statistical data approves
to be insufficient for estimating the impacts on poor.
- 31 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
*      Provisions in the Loan Agreement specify compliance with Bank environmental policies;
*      Environmental mitigation and monitoring provisions will be included in tender documents;
Environmental issues will be included in Corporate Development Plans;
*      sub-project specific EMPs will be prepared and implemented; and
Provisions will be made for supervision of environmental aspects of sub-projects by Russian and
Bank specialists.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Prospects for sustainability are enhanced by the strict entry conditionalities, to be followed by rigorous
project supervision by the Bank. Entry conditionalities include credible up-front actions in regard to
improving financial performance. A key requirement for sustainability will be the willingness and ability of
the vodokanals to raise the resources needed to fund their operations adequately. This includes a much
higher level of maintenance expenditure than has been the case over the past years, and increased
generation of intemal funds required for the local counterpart contributions and repayment of the loan.
Achievement of these goals will require the vodokanals to substantially increase their overall efficiency,
including the introduction of cost recovering tariffs and substantial improvements in the rate of revenue
collection. The participating vodokanals, with the support of their city and oblast governments, have taken
required up-front actions, including significant increases in average tariffs and in the share of cash
collection in total collections, and have already cornmitted themselves to further substantial improvements
in undertakings that they have signed with the Ministry of Finance. The management of vodokanals and
the municipal governments are conscious of the urgency of improving operational, commercial and
financial performance and recognize the importance of making full use of the services of intemationally
reputed consultants with specific experience on operations and managemnent of water utilities that will be
financed under the project. The core team of experts established in the NFHR will continue to spearhead
the reform agenda beyond the life-time of the proposed project. The Bank will closely follow progress in
institutional strengthening under its supervision activities and proactively seek prompt remedial action if
and when warranted. For the Bank, flexibility and a willingness to adjust the project for unforeseen
circumstances, but equally, a readiness to use its remedies in case of nonperformance by the project
entities, will be required.
- 32 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk l!gation Meosure
From Outputs to Objective
Tariffs are not increased by local/regional  H        *Up-front condition to increase tariffs to
governments to allow vodokanals                      demonstrate commitment to financial principles
sufficient revenue generation                        of project
*Intensive monitoring of compliance with
financial covenants and prompt action in case of
non-compliance
*Adequate collection of financial information
to demonstrate to local authorities need for tariff
increases
*Physical investments designed to have a rapid
and visible impact that make tariff increases
more acceptable to the consumer
*Loan Agreement provides provision to deter
procurement actions until vodokanal is in fully
compliance with its obligations.
Fiscal situation continues to deteriorate   S         *Intensive monitoring of financial performance
affecting payment of water and                       and prompt support to vodokanals to find
wastewater bills by budget organizations             alternative approaches to revenue generation
and state industries
Local governments do not give               H         *Intensive dialogue and exchange of experiences
vodokanals the tools and enforcement                 between Bank, municipalities and vodokanals to
support to increase revenue collection               support collection efforts
* Collection of adequate commercial
information to identify specific debtors and age
of receivables, and to prepare specific action
plans
Vodokanals collude with major debtors      M          *Close monitoring of payables and debtor
and do not apply the collection                       analysis and prompt identification of underlying
enforcement tools available to them                  reasons for non-collection
*Intensive supervision and prompt action in
case of non-compliance
Industrial recession continues to           S         *Tariffs for other categories of consumers are
deteriorate revenue base of vodokanals               increased to compensate reduction of revenues
Vodokanals do not take an active role in   M          *Adequate collection of cost information and
maintaining or reducing operational costs            submission to local authorities and monopoly
below inflation                                       agencies for action
Actions implemented under the MSOIP        M          *Continuous monitoring of effectiveness of
are not effective in reducing operational            proposed measures, dissemination of lessons
costs                                                learned in the various cities, and effective
incorporation in the implementation efforts
- 33 -



Budget organizations and state industries   H         *Up-front condition to increase cash collection
do not pay in cash                                   to demonstrate commitment to financial
principles of project
*Dialogue between Bank and municipalities to
support vodokanals' efforts to increase cash
collection
*Intensive monitoring of compliance with
financial covenants and prompt action in case of
non-compliance
Municipal Housing Enterprises and other     S         *Change of collection strategy either through
intermediaries continue with the practice             different intermediaries or direct billing
of non-transfer of cash collected on behalf
of vodokanal
A devaluation of the ruble increases the    S         *Prompt action to reduce sub-loans so as not to
cost of debt service to vodokanals making            jeopardize financial viability of vodokanals by
some of the sub-loans unfeasible                     leaving them with an unmanageable level of debt
Tariff regime is not changed to maintain    M         *Technical assistance includes the development
vodokanal revenues in coordination with               of tariff policies that will reflect this expected
the introduction of consumption-based                 change in volumes billed
billing
Corruption in vodokanals increases as       M         *Commercial and Financial Management
financial resources available (particularly          systems to be installed will provide more
cash) increases                                      transparent information easier to audit and
control
Economic deterioration makes consumers      S         *Intensive supervision of financial performance
unable to pay higher tariffs                          and prompt action to reduce sub-loan sizes if
economic deterioration continues
New federal regulations prevent tariff      M         *Continuous monitoring of new regulations and
increases or increase benefits to privileged          prompt dialogue with federal government on
categories of customers                              issues that may affect the financial viability of
vodokanals
From Components to Outputs
New financial concepts are rejected by     M          *Close supervision of implementation,
vodokanals                                           continuous progress evaluation of Action Plan
and its annual updates
Consultants are not effective in designing  M         *Well-prepared Terms of Reference
and implementing the technical assistance              *Careful evaluation of proposals and
activities of the MSOIP                              consultant selection
*Use of consultants with practical experience
in the operation of water and wastewater supply
systems and management of utilities
*Prompt action in case of selection of
inadequate consultants
*Intense monitoring of consultant's work
* Effective integration of foreign and local
consultants
-34 -



Lack of understanding at the central level        H           *Training of Gosstroi and NFHR staff
of the benefits of the MSOIP and lack of                       *Continuous monitoring of progress to
support                                                       demonstrate benefits of programs
Lack of managerial, financial and                  H          *Substantial training effort not only through
technical capacity at the vodokanal level                     education but through implementation of
MSOIP, capitalizing on existing well-educated
staff
Tools and methodologies inappropriate              S          *Close supervision of products, particularly at
for managerial, financial and technical                       earlier stages of development and during pilot
capacity at vodokanal level                                   cases
*Effective incorporation of lessons in later
stages of implementation
Insufficient resources for implementation         M           Facilitate additional donor support for MSOIP
of MSOIP, particularly the technical
assistance component
Objectives of MSOIP turn out to be too             M          *Close supervision and prompt restructuring,
ambitious and unachievable given                              specifically at mid-term review
capacity of vodokanals and resources                            *Phased implementation to incorporate lessons
available through project                                     from earlier stages into later phases
*Facilitate additional donor support
Gosstroi not effective in disseminating            M          *Design alternative strategy and involve other
tools and lessons learned in the                              agencies and groups
implementation of MSOIP                                        * Independent distribution of tools, materials
and guidelines generated through National
Association of Vodokanals, Institutes
Vodokanals and consultants do not agree            S          *Bank to play arbitration role
on specific actions to be implemented as                        *Specific criteria for investments in the
part of the MSOIP                                             MSOIP agreed up-front
*Plan of Action to be signed by both vodokanal
and consultants
Overall Risk Rating                                H          Prompt action with cities that do not submit
Action Plan and updates on time
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The following table discusses risks associated with procurement, disbursement, FMS, project management, and
risks related to implementation progress:
Risk                  Risk                   Risk Minimization Measure
iRating
Procurement risks
Significant delays in the preparation of  M   *   All bidding packages for first-year activities of IIP completed prior
bidding packages                                 to Board presentation
*   Bidding packages for entire IIP substantially complete by
effectiveness
.   Specific allocation of resources for preparation of bidding
packages of MSOIP investments
Weak procurement capacity of NFHR and   H   *   Procurement advisors to be selected by effectiveness
vodokanals
- 35 -



Lack of ownership of procurement activities    S   *   Mandatory participation of vodokanal representatives in bid
by vodokanals                                     opening and evaluation processes
Rejection and lack of understanding of   S   *   Training to vodokanal staff by Bank team with first group of
competitive process by vodokanals                 bidding packages
.   Continuous executive assistance of procurement advisors and
NFHR during project implementation
Procurement process takes longer than    S   *   Very specific procedures in Operational Manual
expected                                      *   Mandatory use of standard bidding documents and specifications
*   Extensive assistance to be provided by procurement advisors
*   All decisions to be accepted and vetted by the NFHR prior to
submission to Bank for no objection
*   Detailed procurement plan prepared and continuously updated for
each vodokanal and entire project used as monitoring tool
Misprocurement occurs                    M    *   Several screening layers in review process, including design
consultants in charge of preparing bidding packages and giving
assistance during evaluation, NFHR, procurement advisors, and
Bank Field Office
Corruption incidents occurs              M    *   Transparency of process maintained at all times
*   Experienced procurement advisors to provide assistance
*   Zero-tolerance policy enforced by Bank
Delays in procurement plan occur         H    *   Realistic procurement plan based on recent experience in Russia
*   Preparation of individual plans agreed with vodokanals
*   Close supervision and prompt action in case of delays
*   Specific review and back-up procedures established within Bank
team, including strong participation and leadership of Field Office
team
Resources estimated for activities of    M    *   Mobilize additional donor support
procurement advisors are not sufficient
Disbursement and FMS risks
Inadequate management of accounts (special   M    *   All management to be done at central level
accounts, sub-project accounts)               *   Detailed procedures in Operational Manual
*   Appropriate Financial Management System in place prior to
effectiveness
Banking crisis in Russia or specific Bank  M    .   Careful selection of Bank for placement of project accounts
freezes accounts
Weak FMS capacity in NFHR                H   *   Clear Tenms of Reference and close supervision of staff selected
for NFHR
*   Mobilize additional donor support
*   Close monitoring of audits to identify difficulties and take prompt
action
*   Implementation of all actions agreed in FMS assessment prior to
Board
Audits submitted late                    S   .   Terms of Reference of first-year audits to include early review of
FMS
*   Close supervision of selection and hiring of international auditor
on time
*   Rigorous follow-up by Bank to ensure on-time delivery of audits
Management risks
Bank resources for supervision insufficient J   S   -   Mobilize additional donor support
- 36 -



Weak managerial capacity of NFHR        S   *   Clear Terms of Reference to ensure staffing with knowledge and
experience in complex project management
*   Close supervision of staff selection at NFHR
*   NFHR fully staffed with personnel satisfactory to the Bank as a
condition of effectiveness
*   Close supervision of management capacity of NFHR, particularly
from Bank's Field Office
*   Additional support of consultants if management capacity of
NFHR fails
Information provided by vodokanals is not  S   *   Mechanisms currently in place for effective communication
sufficient for effective project management      between NFHR and vodokanals developed and used during project
preparation
*   Very specific procedures in Operational Manual
*   Tools to be developed and implemented as part of Technical
Assistance of MSOIP
*   Simple report designs fully understood by vodokanal staff
*   Close supervision by NFHR and Bank and prompt action in case
of continuous delays in submission of project information
Audits of vodokanal income statements are    S   *   Clear ToR of auditors used by vodokanals
not adequate or submitted late               *   Training of auditors in IAS preparation of income statements
*   Training to vodokanal accounting and FMS staff on IAS
*   Close supervision by NFHR and rigorous follow-up
*   Explore with donors for additional support to auditing activities in
case of difficulties
Risks in implementation progress
Cities delay signature of Sub-Loan      M   *   Preliminary approval of Sub-loan Agreement as a condition of
Agreement or do not sign them                    vodokanal participation in the project
Project effectiveness is delayed        S   *   Realistic schedule based on experience of other Bank projects in
Russia
*   Few and simple conditions of effectiveness
*   Close supervision and follow-up of actions required for
effectiveness
Counterpart funding is not available on time   H   *   Vodokanals are required to place counterpart funds up-front in the
sub-project accounts their contributions in cash (including tax and
duty payments) to avoid initiation of procurement without
adequate counterpart funds
*   Preparation and frequent updating of project implementation and
disbursement plan for each individual vodokanal to ensure
adequate planning of future cash needs
*   Close monitoring of financial covenants related to cash collection
to ensure adequate resource availability
Political interference in enforcement of  S   *   Clear and specific Loan and Sub-Loan Agreement with clear
project covenants                                definition of remedies for non-compliance by vodokanals and
Central Government
*   Support of Bank Management to take prompt remedies in case of
non-compliance by vodokanals
Cost overruns in IIP                    M    *   Close supervision and immediate actions to modify MSOIP at the
time of bidding of IIP components
Cost overruns in Technical Assistance of  M    *   Close supervision and prompt action to amend Loan Agreement
MSOIP
Delays associated with short construction  M    *   Project implementation plan prepared taking into consideration
season                                           shortness of construction season
*   Close supervision to avoid delays in procurement process that
could bring about significant delays in construction
Construction permits and other          M   *   Close supervision and prompt action to facilitate interaction by
authorizations not given on time or affected     raising any problems with Gosstroi and other agencies
by interference of Govemment agencies not    *   Very specific procedures in Operational Manual, particularly on
participating in the project                     interactions with other Government agencies
- 37 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
One of the most important aspects of project implementation that may be controversial is the raising of
tariffs to domestic consumers. Prospects for the required increases in levels of average tariffs, essential for
improving the financial performance of the vodokanals, are enhanced by their projected affordability.
Despite significant projected increases in residential tariffs, the local government's elected officials in the
participating cities are of the opinion that water and wastewater services would remain affordable for their
constituents throughout the project. Based on reported average net monthly salary specific to the
participating cities, projections of real growth in income, and consumption and tariff projections, the
affordability analysis indicates the combined charge for water and wastewater services as a percentage of
household income would average 3 percent of net disposable income by the end of the project in the
participating cities.
G. Main Negotiations I Board / Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Appointment of qualified staff by the NFHR (project implementation unit) for the Project.
*   The Project Implementation Agreement has been executed by the Borrower and NFHR.
*   The Borrower and six vodokanals have executed six Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements.
*   Consultants for the implementation of the MSOIP and for the procurement support of NFHR have
been engaged by the Borrower, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Each Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement shall be subject to the following conditions of
effectiveness:
*   A corresponding LPIU has been established.
*   A  Local Project Account has been opened and an arnount equivalent to Sub-project related
expenditures projected to be required during the following three (3) months and due from the
vodokanal, City and/or participating Subject of the Borrower, has been deposited into the Local Project
Account.
*   A legal opinion satisfactory to the Borrower has been issued certifying that the Subsidiary Loan and
Guarantee Agreement has been duly executed, delivered and authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental and corporate action of the Borrower, and the City and/or Oblast, and vodokanal, and
that such agreement is legally valid and binding on the parties thereto in accordance with their terms.
Conditions for Negotiations have been met:
*   Submit evidence that water and wastewater tariffs charged by vodokanals - and direct operating
subsidies allocated in the budget of participating municipalities and/or oblasts, if any - are sufficient
to, at minimum: (i) to cover the expected operating and adequate maintenance costs (as defined below),
and (ii) to generate one half of the counterpart contribution required for the project initiation.
Adequate maintenance expenses are defined as the largest of: (i) the maintenance expenses in 1998 in
constant terms, or (ii) one percent of the total value of fixed assets owned by the vodokanal, calculated
by an independent certified valuator or by the following formula: USD 0.39 per person served by the
water network plus USD 0.52 per person served by the wastewater network.
*   Submit evidence that cash collection at a minimum has been maintained at the level equal to the higher
of (a) the same percentage of overall collection as in 1998 plus all project related expenses, or (b) if
- 38 -



cash collection in 1998 was less than 60% of overall collection, the same percentage of cash collection
as in 1998 plus the linear increase between the level of 1998 and 60% required for 2004.
* Present a financial plan approved by municipal and Oblast governments satisfactory to the Bank,
including tariff and cash requirements for project initiation, and overall tariff schedule and cash
collection levels during project implementation to ensure that the real collected revenue of vodokanals
are sufficient to cover its expenditures including operational costs, adequate maintenance costs,
sub-project counterpart funding and debt service; and that cash collection levels expressed as
percentage of overall collection are maintained at the level as specified above.
*   Submit evidence that all participating vodokanals, cities and oblasts agree with the model draft
Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement.
*   Submit evidence that the composition of the Council of NFHR has been changed so that the Council
includes a balanced representation of all concerned ministries and agencies.
*   Submit evidence that project reporting formats and procedures acceptable to the Bank have been
agreed with participating vodokanals and the NFHR.
* Submit evidence that a format for maintaining Fixed Asset Register and a list of supporting documents
acceptable to the Bank have been agreed with vodokanals.
Conditions for Board Presentation have been met:
*   The requests for proposals for consultants' services for (i) the implementation of the MSOIP, and (ii)
for the procurement support for the NFHR have been issued by the Borrower.
v  Operational Manual defining implementation responsibilities and processes to be followed by the
NFHR and LPIUs has been completed and adopted.
v  Training plan for vodokanal staff on project financial management has been prepared by the NFHR.
*   Senior procurement specialist has been hired by NFHR. (The procurement capacity of the NFHR was
carried out by the Bank in July 2000. The number of procurement staff assigned to work in the project
was found to be adequate.)
:   Consultants to prepare the engineering designs and tender documents for IIP have been engaged by all
participating vodokanals.
:   Invitation to bid for work and goods of IIP have been issued by Astrakhan, Cheboksary, Gagarin,
Kansk, Oryol, Pechora, Petrozavodsk, Pskov, Tobolsk, Volkhov, Vologda, and Votkinsk Vodokanals.
*   Model Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement and Project Implementation Agreement have been
approved by the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Loan Agreement includes the following covenants:
*  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements in such a
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the
Project, and, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee
Agreement or any provision thereof.
*   The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to maintain a financial management system, including records and
accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to
the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial position and to register
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
*  The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR which: (i)
presents actual sources and uses of funds for the Project for the report period and projections for the
- 39 -



following six months; (ii) presents actual expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during
the report period and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the
following six months; (iii) describes physical progress in Project implementation; (iv) explains
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and (v) sets forth the
status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
* The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheet, statements of sources and uses of funds, and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank certified copies of the financial statements as
soon as available but in any case no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year; and available
but in any case no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
The Loan Agreement specifies in detail these and other covenants. As covenants of the Subsidiary Loan
and Guarantee Agreement include the vodokanals, cities and Oblasts shall, among other items, be required
to:
* Give the Borrower the right to suspend or terminate the right of the City, Oblast, or vodokanal to the
use of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon failure by such party to perform its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement.
e Open, by the date on which the vodokanal shall enter into the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee
Agreement, and thereafter maintain, the Local Project Account, and maintain in such Local Project
Account, during the life of the Sub-project, an amount sufficient to pay for Sub-project related
expenditures projected to be required during the following three months.
- Establish and maintain a LPIU with the responsibilities for the day-to-day coordination and execution
of the Sub-project.
* Maintain adequate records and asset registry related to works and goods procured under the
Sub-project.
* Ensure that for each of the fiscal years during Sub-project implementation, the vodokanal's collected
operating revenues are sufficient to meet its operational expenses, adequate maintenance expenses, and
other Sub-project-related expenses for that fiscal year.
* Ensure that the overall collection ratio of each vodokanal, defined as amounts collected by such
vodokanal during the preceding fiscal year divided by accrued revenues for the same period, is equal to
not less than 60% in year 2000, and is equal to or higher than the percentage corresponding to the
linear increase thereafter, up to the level of 85%, required for year 2004.
* Ensure that for each of the fiscal years during Sub-project implementation, the vodokanal's cash
collection is not smaller than the sum of the 1998 cash collection level in constant (inflation-adjusted)
terms and total Sub-project related expenses for that fiscal year.
* If the cash collection ratio of a vodokanal in 1998 was less than 70%, ensure that during Sub-project
implementation, the cash collection ratio for such Participating Vodokanal increases from its 1998 level
by no less than the linear interpolation between the 1998 level and the value of 70% for 2004, defined
by the following formula: (70% -- cash collection in 1998)x(fiscal year - 1998)/6.
* By or before April 15 each of the vodokanal's fiscal years during Sub-project implementation, the
vodokanal, city and Oblast shall review, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the vodokanal and
satisfactory to the Bank, whether the vodokanal would be able to meet the financial covenants of the
project and promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or level of its water and wastewater tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
* If the vodokanal received operational subsidies in the year 1998, ensure that the total operational
subsidies, if any, to be made by the Oblast or City, shall not increase from the 1998 level during the
- 40 -



first year of Sub-project implementation, and that such subsidies are reduced following a linear
decrease schedule so as to be eliminated entirely by the end of Sub-project implementation.
*   If the vodokanal did not receive operational subsidies in the year 1998, ensure that the vodokanal
receive no such subsidies during Sub-project implementation.
*   Ensure that the vodokanal is not required by the City or Oblast to provide mandated benefits to
preferred customers beyond those in effect by June 30, 2000.
*   Ensure that the setting and collection of water and wastewater charges during Sub-project
implementation is done in an effective manner, which shall mean, arnong other things, that: (i) the
vodokanal's collected operating revenues are sufficient to meet its operational expenses, adequate
maintenance expenses and other Sub-project related expenses; (ii) water and wastewater charges
payable to the vodokanal by state owned or controlled adrninistrative entities (non-industrial) and
overdue by more than thirty (30) days shall be paid by the City and/or Oblast through direct budgetary
transfers to the vodokanal; and (iii) water and wastewater charges payable by residential, budgetary
and industrial water consumers shall be collected in a timely and efficient manner and, when payments
are not made on time, water and wastewater services can be and are legally terminated in accordance
with established policies and procedures.
*   Ensure that the vodokanal does not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the vodokanal's
revenues and expenditures shows that the estimated net revenues of the vodokanal for each fiscal year
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated debt service
requirements of the vodokanal in such year on all debt of the vodokanal, including the debt to be
incurred.
*   Ensure that the records, accounts and financial statements related to the subproject for each fiscal year
are audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower not later than six (6)
months after the end of each such year certified copies of the financial statements for such year so
audited and the report of such audit by the auditors of such scope and such detail as the Borrower and
the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
-   Maintain the vodokanal in a legal form satisfactory to the Bank.
-   Within 18 months from the time of signing the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement, the City
and/or Oblast, and the vodokanal shall complete and agree upon an action plan, satisfactory to the
Borrower, NFHR, and the Bank, to improve the operation and management of the vodokanal, which
shall include a description of specific measures, investments, target dates and costs for: (i) the technical
assistance and training for the development of appropriate computerized financial and commercial
systems, introduction of a metering policies and plans, introduction of appropriate tariff policies, levels
and structures, operational performance assessment, and other activities under the MSOIP; and (ii)
investments in hardware, software, macro and micro metering, pipes and other goods required for the
implementation of the Sub-project activities related to the MSOIP.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project imnplementation.
a 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
-41 -



3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The engineering designs and bidding documents for the first year's activities will be completed prior to
Board presentation.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Kari Homanen                     Walter Stottmann               %wJNfichael F. Carter
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Manager
- 42 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:             Sector! country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sector-related CAS Goal:     An increase in the number of  - Local government budgets    - Favorable macroeconomic
Establish viable financing   Russian cities that have replaced                           conditions
mechanisms for infrastructure,  the overall subsidization of  - Data on residential tariffs for   - The municipal resources
including participation of private residential tariffs by direct  water & wastewater services  released by the reform in the
investors, where feasible    financial support targeted to the                           financing of the municipal
low income population.        - Supervision Mission Reports   utilities will be used to
implement financially sustainable
- Mid -Term and Implementation prograrns of targeted assistance
Completion Report (ICR)       to the low income groups of the
population;
Project Development          Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
The financial and technical   1. Sixty % of the participating  -Financial data of the     - The reform of the financing
performance of vodokanals is    vodokanals collect for each fiscal participating vodokanals  mechanisms for the provision of
improved and the lessons learned year during project                                      communal services continues to
disseminated.                implementation sufficient     - Regular progress reports    be a priority objective of the
revenues to cover their operating  (PMRs)                   Federal and local governments
costs, adequate maintenance                                 - Favorable macroeconomic
expenditures and project related  -Supervision Mission Reports    conditions
expenses;
2. Sixty % of the participating   - Mid-Term and Implementation
vodokanals achieve for each   Completion Report (ICR)
fiscal year during project
implementation the cash
collection targets established in
their financial improvement
programs;
3. Drinking water quality has
improved in sixty % of the
participating vodokanals, by the
end of the project.
4. Energy efficiency has
improved in sixty % of the
participating vodokanals by the
end of the project.
Note: Base line situation and
detailed indicators to be
developed by TA consultanst
during the early implementation
of the project
- 43 -



Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:               (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Key components of the existing  - Every year, starting in year 3 of - Financial and technical data of  I. Tariffs are increased by
water and wastewater systems    the project, the operating costs of the vodokanals        local/regional governments to
are rehabilitated             the participating vodokanals                                 allow vodokanals sufficient
increase by less than the inflation - Bidding documents for the  revenue generation
rate, for a similar level of service procurement of the goods,,  2. Fiscal situation does not
equipment, works and services   deteriorate affecting payment of
- The water balance of the system  necessary to complete the  water and wastewater bills by
is known and information about  investments program         budget organizations and state
the level of leaks is reliable.                             industries
Leaks are reduced.            - Regular progress reports    3. Local governments give
(PMRs)                        vodokanals the tools and
- Consumer satisfaction on the                              enforcement support to increase
supplied water quality has    -Supervision Mission Reports   revenue collection
increased.                                                  4. Actions implemented under
- Implementation Completion    the IIP and MSOIP are effective
Report (ICR)                  in reducing operational costs
The engineering, financial and    - Key staff of the participating    - Progress reports submitted by   5. Budget organizations and
management personnel of the   vodokanals have been trained on  the consultants; evaluation of    state industries pay in cash the
vodokanals is trained and     the job by the technical      impact of training prepared by    water and wastewater rates
vodokanals have adopted       assistance consultants;       the vodokanals and the NFHR.   6. Municipal Housing
advanced water utility                                                                     Enterprises and other
management methods;           - All detailed investment     - Regular progress reports     intermediaries do not continue
proposals prepared by the     (PMRs)                        with the practice of non-transfer
participating vodokanals are                                 of cash collected on behalf of
accompanied by economic       -Supervision Mission Reports    vodokanal
justification starting in year 2 of                          7. Tariff regime is changed to
the project inititation       - Mid-Term and Implementation  maintain vodokanal revenues in
Completion Report (ICR)       coordination with the
- Modern computerized                                       introduction of
commercial and financial system   - Audit reports           consumption-based billing
is in place by the end of the                               8. Deterioration of the economic
project in participating                                     situation to a level that makes
vodokanals                                                  consumers unable to pay higher
tariffs does not take place
- A consumption-based billing                               9. No new federal regulations
system has been introduced by                               prevent tariff increases or
the end of the project in the                               increase benefits to privileged
participating vodokanals                                    categories of customers
- Collected revenues cover the
O&M costs and project related
payments
- Vodokanal accounts prepared
following IAS for the third year
of project implementation and
onwards
-44 -



Project Components /         Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components,              component)                                                  Outputs)
1. Immediate Investrnent     1. Total cost: $73.765 million    - Bidding documents, including   1. New financial concepts are
Program:                                                   detailed designs that meet    accepted by vodokanals
international standards       2. Consultants are effective in
designing and implementing the
- Contracts for the procurement  technical assistance activities of
of goods, equipment and works  the MSOIP
3. Full understanding at the
- Regular progress reports    central level of the benefits of the
(PMRs)                        MSOIP
4. Existence of adequate
-Supervision Mission Reports    managerial, financial and
technical capacity at the
- Mid-Term and Implementation  vodokanal level
Completion Report (1CR)       5. Tools and methodologies are
appropriate for managerial,
financial and technical capacity
at vodokanal level
6. Available resources are
adequate for implementation of
MSOIP, particularly the technical
assistance component
2. Management Strengthening    2: Total cost US$75.264 million                           7. Objectives of MSOIP turn out
and Operational Improvement                                                              to be adequate and achievable
Program.                       2.1. US$7.875 million       - Quality proposals received from  given capacity of vodokanals and
2.1 Technical Assistance for                               consultants for the provision of   resources available through
Implementation                                             TA.                           project
8. Gosstroi is effective in
2.2 US$67.389 million         - Activity reports of the    disseminating tools and lessons
2.2 Investment Support                                     consultant                    learned in the implementation of
MSOIP
- Regular progress reports    9. Vodokanals and consultants
(PMRs)                       agree on specific actions to be
implemented as part of the
-Supervision Mission Reports    MSOIP
- Mid-Term and Implementation
Completion Report (ICR)
- Contracts for the procurement
of goods, equipment and works
- 45 -



3. Project Management and   3. Total cost: US$18.646 million
Implementation Support
3.1 Elaboration of Final Designs  3.1 US$8.663 million   - Bidding documents, including
and Bidding Documents                                    detailed designs that meet
international standards
3.2 Supervision of Construction   3.2 US$3.734 million   - Contracts for the procurement
of goods, equipment and works
- Supervision Mission Reports
- Mid-Term and Implementation
Completion Report (ICR)
3.3 General Procurement     3.3 US$ 1.250 million        - Activity reports of the
Assistance                                               consultant
3.4 US$ 5.000 million
3.4 NFHR/Project                                         - Audit of project accounts
Implementation Unit
- Training and dissemination
material prepared by the NFHR.
- Regular progress reports
(PMRs)
-Supervision Mission Reports
- Mid-Term and Implementation
Completion Report (ICR)
- 46 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
The objective of the project is to arrest the decline of water and wastewater services in fourteen
medium-size Russian cities,. This will be achieved by: (i) funding the most critical and immediate
investments needed to maintain and improve the operation of the water and wastewater systems; and (ii)
implementing programs of institutional strengthening and operational improvements aimed at improving
management, financial and operating capacity.
The government aims to make the strategies, models and systems developed for the participating
vodokanals available to other vodokanals seeking to improve their management and operation. A set of
training materials - guidelines, manuals, software, audiovisual aides, seminars, training courses - for key
areas of water/wastewater utility management and operation will be prepared and training events -
seminars, workshops, conferences - to disseminate this information to interested vodokanals throughout
Russia will be organized.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$73.76 million
Immediate Investment Program (IIP)
The water and wastewater networks, treatment plants, and other system components of the participating
cities are in a state of disrepair. In each city, a set of immediate investments have been identified,
described, justified, costed and designed by consultants during project preparation. The selection criteria
for investments in the IIP included: (i) scope and benefits clearly defined during project preparation; (ii)
high priority from a technical and service quality perspective; (iii) capacity to bring small but noticeable
improvements in services; and (iv) improvements in system operations that reduce operating costs, and/or
improve service quality.
The IIP for the vodokanals has an implementation period generally of no more than two years; and a total
cost below the sub project loan size to allow sufficient resources for the implementation of the Management
Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program.
The investment proposals for inclusion in the IIP prepared and submitted by the vodokanals with the
assistance of intemational consultants have been found acceptable by the NFHR and the Bank. Typical
investments in the IIP include: (i) replacement of critical pumping equipment; (ii) rehabilitation of water or
wastewater treatment plant components; (iii) rehabilitation of specific sections of water mains clearly
identified as the weakest link in the system due to frequent breaks; (iv) rehabilitation of water intakes and
sources, particularly in cases of contamination; among others.
A complete list of investments included in the IIP for each of the 14 participating vodokanals is presented
in Attachment 1. More detailed information, including an in-depth assessment of the present institutional
and technical condition, recommendations for improvement, the description, justification, cost estimate and
implementation schedule for IIP investments are available in the Sub-project Appraisal Documents and the
technical assessment reports in the Project Files.
The preparation of detailed designs and bidding documents for the IIP investments is underway in 13
-47 -



vodokanals. The selection of consultants for Sochi is underway and will be engaged prior to Board
Presentation. Completion of bidding docurnents for the IIP investments to be implemented in the first year
of the project will be completed and reviewed by the Bank prior to Board presentation. It is expected that
the bidding documents for all IIP investments will be substantially complete by Project Effectiveness The
design and bidding documents for the expansion of the WWTP in Sochi will take longer due to the
complexity of the rehabilitation work.
Project Component 2 - US$67.24 million
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program (MSOIP)
The objective of this component is to implement a specific and well-defined set of governance, technical
and commercial reforns aimed at improving physical system operations and management and financial
performance of vodokanals. These utilities face two key challenges: first, lack of financial viability, linked
to low collections and low and distorted norm-based tariffs; second, inefficient operations linked to
inappropriate designs and standards, excessive leakage, water wastage, inadequate system operational and
construction practices, and excessive electricity consumption.
Regarding managerial aspects, the MSOIP provides vodokanals with the tools (hardware, software, meters
and training) and the necessary technical assistance to improve their financial and commercial systems,
introduce consumption-based billing, and improve their tariff policies. Regarding operational aspects, the
MSOIP assists vodokanals with expert advise and funding to better understand the present shortcomings of
existing facilities and to identify best practice and least cost alternatives to introduce: (a) macro metering
and master metering; (b) leak management; (c) water supply network optimization, including mapping,
hydraulic modeling and pressure zoning; and (d) plant energy audit and energy/input reduction.
The MSOIP is divided into two closely related sub-components:
Project Sub-Component 2.1 - Technical Assistance for Implementation of the MSOIP (TA) (US$8.00
million)
This sub-component will finance the consulting services to support the following activities:
2.1.1 Utility Governance and Corporate Development Plan: development and implementation of (i) new
governance structure which would allow independent, financial self-sufficient operation of vodokanals but
strategic control would remain with the municipalities; and (ii) Corporate Development Plans with
emphasis on strategic objectives, measurable performance targets and installing planning process which
would ensure the participation of all stakeholders.
2.1.2 Commercial System: development and implementation of a new commercial system that will allow
for consumption based billing, effective consumers and collection management, and consumer friendly
customer service.
2.1.3 Accounting/Financial Management System: development and implementation of an accounting and
financial management system adequate for the needs of vodokanals and the capacity of their personnel.
The systems will follow Generally Accepted Accounting Practices and will run in parallel with the actual
Russian Accounting Standard system. With these systems, vodokanals will be able to address both their
own and Bank's needs for reporting, accounting and auditing requirements.
-48 -



2.1.4 Tariff Policies. Tarif Settinz and Tariff Adjustments: development and implementation of new
policies, procedures for setting tariffs - levels and structures - and procedures for adjusting tariffs in
response to financial requirements and as a tool for demand management.
2.15 Consumption Metering: development and implementation of a metering strategy as a tool for demand
management and revenue increase, with special consideration to: (i) the choice between block and
apartment metering; (ii) the facilities required for meter maintenance and calibration; and (iii) the
implementation schedule required for meter purchase and installation and definition of appropriate technical
specifications.
2.1.6 Operational Costs Reduction and Service Improvement: development and implementation of
programs to improve quality of service and efficiency in the provision of the services in a least cost manner
consisting of specific, well-defined, and cost effective interventions conducive to the: (i) reduction in water
consumption; (ii) improvement of network performance mainly to reduce energy costs and leaks and
improve quality of service; (iii) reliable production metering in support of a better understanding of water
losses and system operation; and (iv) improvements in the performance and productivity of water and
wastewater plants performance, including energy conservation.
Each of these activities will be implemented with the support of international consultants with practical
experience in water and wastewater utilities management and operations. The consultants will adapt
methodologies and tools used internationally to the local conditions of medium-size cities in Russia. They
will rely heavily on Russian experts who after receiving appropriate training will, with guidance form the
international consultant, help vodokanals to implement the MSOIP.
It is the intention of the government to make the strategies, models and systems developed for the
participating vodokanals available also to other vodokanals seeking to improve their management and
operation. To this effect, the consultant will assist the NFHR in: (i) developing, based on the pilot work
done under the project, a set of training materials - guidelines, manuals, software, audiovisual aides,
seminars, training courses - for key areas of water/wastewater utility management and operation; (ii)
conducting training events - seminars, workshops, conferences - to disseminate this information to
interested vodokanals throughout Russia; and (iii) advising interested vodokanals in their implementation.
Project Sub-Component 2.2 - Investments in Support of the MSOIP (US$67.389 million)
This sub-component will finance investments (goods, works and training) to:
(i) Improve the management of vodokanals through implementation of project sub-components 2.1.1 to
2.1.4. The investments in this category include:
* Administrative equipment necessary for the implementation of the commercial and
accounting/financial management systems, including computer hardware and software; and
* Water consumption meters and meter calibration and maintenance equipment.
(ii) Improve the operational efficiency of the existing systems through implementation of the interventions
to be defined under sub-component 2.1.5. The investments in this category include:
*   All of the various items generally identified with a water supply system but not limited to pipes,
valves, fittings, service connection assemblies, air release and pressure reduction valves, pumps,
pump spare parts, mechanical and electrical parts, and controls;
*   All of the various items generally identified with a wastewater collection and disposal system but
not limited to sewer pipes, fittings, valves, manholes, pump spare parts, mechanical and electrical
- 49 -



parts, controls, and screens;
*   Water production and network bulk meters used to record flows;
*   Water/sewer maintenance equipment, including any tools, construction equipment, leak and
pressure management equipment, and other equipment normally used in the maintenance of water
and wastewater systems; and
*  Urgent system rehabilitation of components of the water and wastewater systems.
Within 18 months of sub-project effectiveness, each vodokanal will submit to review by the Bank an Action
Plan agreed by the vodokanals, the consultants, and the NFHR. This Action Plan will identify the proposed
investments, including description, justification, cost, implementation and procurement arrangements and
schedules. Action plans will be updated annually thereafter. After approval of each annual plan the
materials, supplies, equipment, goods and works will be procured and installed in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
Project Component 3 - USS 18.65 million
Project Management and Implementation Support
3.1 Elaboration of Final Designs and Bidding Documents (US$8.66 million)
Consultants will assist each of the participating vodokanals in the elaboration of final designs and bidding
documents of all investments in the MSOIP. Specific tasks include, as appropriate: (i) the conduct of field
surveys and site investigations required for the development of final engineering designs; (ii) the
preparation of engineering drawings and document technical specifications of equipment, structures and
works for the approved investment components in such detail as required to attach to calls for tenders; (iii)
the preparation of detailed cost estimates in foreign and local currencies; (iv) the preparation of a
procurement plan to ensure that components are grouped into cost efficient procurement packages
components; (v) the preparation of construction program schedule for civil works packages; and (vi) the
preparation of bidding documents including pre-qualification documents, where needed, instruction to
bidders and contract documents. All documents will be suitable for international and /or local procurement
as the case may be and prepared according to the requirements and forms of World Bank Standard Bidding
Documents and World Bank Guidelines for Procurement.
3.2 Supervision of Construction (US$3.73 million)
Consultants will provide supervision of construction services to ensure that the quality of equipment and
civil works under both the IIP and the MSOIP meet adequate standards of quality and that bills provided by
suppliers and contractors are correct.
3.3 General Procurement Assistance (US$1.25 million)
Procurement advisors will be hired by the NFHR before the loan effectiveness. The advisors will be
responsible for assisting the NFHR in carrying out procurement functions on behalf of the Government and
vodokanals in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines.
For procurement to be conducted according to international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, the
advisors will assist the NFHR and the vodokanals to: (i) arrange for proper advertising; (ii) prepare
bidding documents using the Standard Bidding Documents issued by the Bank, drafting suitable
modifications to suit individual procurement packages; (iii) distribute/sell bidding documents to prospective
-50 -



bidders at a nominal cost, crediting the funds received to the Borrower's account; (iv) issue bid invitations
and requests for consultants' proposals; (v) provide clarifications in response to potential bidders'
questions; (vi) conduct pre-bid conferences, as necessary (vii) conduct bid openings and prepare the
minutes of bid opening; (viii) evaluate bids and consultants' proposals and prepare bid evaluation reports to
the Bank with recommendations for awarding the contract; (ix) monitor communications between the
World Bank and the NFHR regarding the Bank's prior review at various steps of the bidding process; (x)
assist the NFHR and vodokanals in awarding and concluding contracts; (xi) arrange for the forwarding of
conformed copies of signed contracts to the World Bank to facilitate disbursement; (xii) assist the NFHR
with correspondence and actions needed with commercial banks for handling appropriate payment
mechanisms under the contracts for goods, works and services; and (xiii) assist the NFHR in preparing
withdrawal applications with respect to loan proceeds from the World Bank.
For non-ICB procurement, the advisors will assist the NFHR and the vodokanals to follow the appropriate
procedures specified in the Loan Agreement, including the solicitation of written quotations from a list of
potential suppliers wide enough to secure competitive prices and finalizing contracts with selected
suppliers.
The advisors will also be responsible for training the staff in the NFHR and in various vodokanals in
handling procurement in accordance with: (i) the provisions of the Bank Loan Agreement and its
Guidelines for procurement of goods and works and for selection of consultants; and (ii) good intemational
commercial practice under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.4 NFHR/Proiect Implementation Unit and Audits (US$ 5 .00 million)
The National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR) will be responsible for managing and supervising
the project. Specifically. the NFHR will manage and supervise the technical assistance for the development
and implementation of the MSOIP and engineering consultants . The NFHR will be the main link with the
Bank and fully responsible for ensuring that the project is implemented efficiently in accordance with the
provisions of the Loan Agreement. The NFHR will be staffed with a core group of specialists, including a
director, two engineer/procurement specialists, two water and wastewater management specialists, two
financial analysts/economists, two accountants (of whom one is chief accountant), one office
manager/secretary, one assistant to the office manager, and three support staff, including driver, office
cleaner and a courier. Cost estimates are provided in the table below. The nucleus of the NFHR comes
from the Project Preparation Unit which has proven so effective in the preparation of the project.
The responsibilities of the NFHR will include: (i) preparing a detailed Project Implementation Plan (PIP),
detailed annual implementation programs and procurement and disbursement schedules for project
execution, and following on their results; (ii) coordinating the work of the consultants and Local Project
Implementation Units (LPIU) that will intervene and/or participate in the execution of the project including
the Technical Assistance (Sub-component 2.1) and Engineering Services (Component 3); (iii) managing the
procurement activities undertaken at the National level; (iv) following up on the timely availability of
counterpart funding for the project; (v) overseeing management of the Special Account and sub-project
accounts and ensuring timeliness of disbursement to contractors/suppliers as well as periodic Special
Account replenishments; (vi) preparing project progress reports to be submitted, in accordance with an
agreed scope and schedule, to the Ministry of Finance, Gosstroi and the Bank and which will form the basis
for periodic reviews of progress in project implementation; (vii) identifying possible gaps and problems in
the project and corresponding actions to be taken for their solution; (viii) monitoring financial targets
included in the PIP and the vodokanals' overall operational and financial performance; ix) maintaining
up-to-date information on all aspects of the project (financing, construction, procurement, expenditures,
- 51 -



etc.) and organizing required document and data recording systems; (x) supervising the execution of
project's audit by the extemal auditors; and (xi) maintaining contacts with executing agencies for similar
projects being implemented in the Russian Federation with the assistance of other bi- or multilateral
organizations.
Table A2-1: Estimated Project Costs of NFHR/Project Implementation Unit
Year                            2001      2002       2003       2004      2005        Total
Staff costs                     363,000    373,890    373,890    385,107    345,641  1,842,000
Social Security Charges         145,200    149,556    149,556    154,043    138,256   737,000
Subtotal                        510,200    525,447    525,448    541,153    485,901  2,579,000
Supplies                          5,000      5,000     5,000      5,000      5,000    25,000
Telephone and communications     10,000     10,000     10,000    10,000     10,000    50,000
Travel and transportation        40,000     40,000    40,000     40,000     40,000   200,000
Rent                            100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000    100,000   500,000
Furniture and equipment          25,000     25,000    25,000     25,000     25,000   125,000
Training and workshops           20,000     20,000    20,000     20,000     20,000   100,000
Subtotal                        200,000    200,000    200,000    200,000    200,000  1,000,000
Miscellaneous consulting         55,032     55,032    55,732     39,032     39,032   253,860
Total (w/o taxes and duties)    758,458    773,704    769,404    768,408    713,155  3,783,130
Total with taxes and duties     960,290    979,348    973,973    972,728    903,661  4,790,000
Project Audits (US$0.21 million)
The entity (NHFR) and the project financial statements, the Special Account and Statements of
Expenditure (SOE) will be audited at the end of each fiscal year during project implementation, in
accordance with international standards on auditing, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Since
NHFR is already submitting audit reports to the Bank under the Housing Project, the same auditor who
carries out the audit in regard to the Housing Project will also undertake the audit in relation to the
proposed project. The audit will include: (i) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal
control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions, and ensure safe custody of the
project-financed assets; (ii) a determination of whether adequate documentation has been retained for all
relevant transactions; (iii) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing;
and (iv) identification of any ineligible expenditures. Copies of the audit report will be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the close of the Borrower's fiscal year. Terms of reference for the audit and
selection of the auditor will be reviewed by the Bank every year.
- 52 -



Use of Proiect Funds by Participatin2 Vodokanals
1) Astrakhan. Population/Population Served: 489,000/339,000                          Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program (1)
Rehabilitation of Gravity Collector                                                           500
Subtotal Base Cost            500
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)          592
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (2)                                                         230
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                      12,712
Subtotal           12_942
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                          1,105
Supervision of Construction                                                                   360
Subtotal            1 465
Taxes and Duties            3 750
Total Project Cost           18_750
Total Loan Amount             13,500
(1) Consultants funded by the Netherlands are working in the field and additional components will be determined by
the end of 2000
2) Vodokanal contribution: 32% of total TA
2) Cheboksary. Population/Population Served: 470,000/424,000                         Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program
Improvement of Water Intake (PS1 and PS2)                                                    2,125
Improvement of Pumping Efficiency                                                             230
Installation of Flow Meters                                                                   713
Subtotal Base Cost           3,068
Subtotal (Incl. Contingenciesi         3 634
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                         287
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                       8,864
Subtotal            9 151
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                           771
Supervision of Construction                                                                   333
Subtotal            1104
Taxes and Duties            3 472
Total Project Cost          17,361
Total Loan Amount             12,500
I) Vodokanal contribution: 32% of totai TA
- 53 -



3) Gagarin. Population/Population Served: 31,000/28,000                                Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program (1)
Laboratory Equipment for Water Treatment Plant                                                  25
Improvement of Distribution Pumps                                                              170
Subtotal Base Cost             195
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)           230
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (2)                                                            19
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                         768
Subtotal              787
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                             67
Supervision of Construction                                                                     27
Subtotal               93
Taxes and Duties              278
Total Project Cost            1,389
Total Loan Amount              1.000
(1) Consultants funded by the Netherlands are working in the field and additional components will be deterrnined by
the end of 2000
2) Vodokanal contribution: 32% of total TA
4) Kansk. Population/ Population Served: 110,000/110,000                              Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program
Rehabilitation and of Water Treatment Plant                                                    902
Reconstruction of Sewage Interceptor and Pumping Stations                                     4,100
Subtotal Base Cost           5,002
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)         5 991
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                           74
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                        1,404
Subtotal            1 *478
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                             122
Supervision of Construction                                                                    187
Subtotal              309
Taxes and Duties            1 944
Total Project Cost            9,722
Total Loan Amount              7,000
I) Vodokanal contribution: 32% of total TA
- 54 -



5) Nakhodka. Population/Population Served: 191,000/156,000                       Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program_
Rehabilitation and Extension of Water Pumping Station                                   2,036
Metering Program                                                                          352
Subtotal Base Cost          2,388
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)       2,862
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                     106
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                   1,014
Subtotal           1,12 0
Engineerinn Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents (2)                                                   356
Supervision of Construction                                                               107
Subtotal            462
Taxes and Duties           1,111
Total Project Cost          5,556
Total Loan Amount            4,000
1) Vodokanal contribution: 32% of total TA
(2) Includes Design Costs for Immediate Investment Program                           _       .
6) Oryol. Population/Population Served: 348,000/325,000                           Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program
Extension of Kromskoi Wellfield                                                           925
Replacement of Transmission Main and Oka River Crossings                                  692
Subtotal Base Cost          1,617
Subtotal (Incl. Contineencies)       1 911
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                     220
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                   4,025
Subtotal           4.245
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                       350
Supervision of Construction                                                               160
Subtotal            510
Taxes and Duties           1 667
Total Project Cost          8333
Total Loan Amount            6.000
(I)Vodokanal contribution: 32% of total TA
- 55-



7) Pechora. Population/Population Served: 65,000/61,000                             Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program
Rehabilitation of Water Treatment Plant                                                    2,793
Construction of Transmission Main                                                           445
Subtotal Base Cost           3,238
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies         3 869
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                         41
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                     1,391
Subtotal            1432
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                          121
Supervision of Construction                                                                  133
Subtotal             254
Taxes and Duties            1 389
Total Project Cost           6,944
Total Loan Amount  5_000
(I)Vodokanal contribution: 32% oftotal TA
8) Petrozavodsk. Population/Population Served: 274,000/272,000                   Total Cost
l =_                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program
Rehabilitation of Water Treatment Plant                                                  5,740
Improvement of Wastewater Treatment Plant Aeration                                       2,309
Subtotal Base Cost           8,049
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)        9 675
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                     184
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                    907
Subtotal            1 091
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                        79
Supervision of Construction                                                               267
Subtotal             346
Taxes and Duties           2 778
Total Project Cost          13.889
.              ~~~~Total Loan Amount          10.000
(I)Vodokanal_contribution:_32%_of total_TA                ToalLon__A_oun_1_00
- 56 -



9) Pskov. Population/Population Served: 205,500/183,000                          Total Cost
.          ~~~(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program
Rehabilitation of Water Treatment Plant                                                 3,960
Subtotal Base Cost          3,960
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)        4,746
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                     124
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                  3,501
Subtotal           3,625
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                      304
Supervision of Construction                                                              213
Subtotal             518
Taxes and Duties           2 222
Total Project Cost          11,111
Total Loan Amount             8,000
(l)Vodokanal contribution: 32% of total TA
10) Sochi. Population/Population Served: 393,000/393,000                          Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program
Rehabilitation and Capacity Enhancement of Bzugu Wastewater Treatment Plant             18,037
Subtotal Base Cost         18,037
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)       21_616
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                      266
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                   3,007
Subtotal           3 273
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents (2)                                                  2,222
Supervision of Construction                                                                667
Subtotal           2 889
Taxes and Duties           6 944
Total Project Cost          34,722
Total Loan Amount            25,0_00
(I)Vodokanal contribution: 32% of tetal TA
(2) Includes Design Costs for Immediate Investment Program
- 57 -



11) Tobolsk. Population/Population Served: 103,000/98,000                              Total Cost
.                       ~~~~~~~~(000 IJS$)
Immediate Investment Program (1)
Equipment for Pipe Repair Works                                                                 400
Subtotal Base Cost             400
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)            472
Manasement Strend thening and Oa erakional Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (2)                                                            66
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                        4,493
Subtotal 4a559
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                             391
Supervision of Construction                                                                     133
Subtotal              524
Taxes and Duties             13 
Total Project Cost              841
Total Loan Amount               51000
() Consultamnts funded by teNetNherlands are working in the field and additional components will be deteanined by
the end of 2000
(2)Vodokanal contribution: 32% of total TA
12) Volkhov. Population/Population Served: 51,000/41,000                               Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program
Construction of Booster Station and Storage Reservoir                                           450
Improvement of Pumping Efficiency                                                               140
Improvement of Water Treatment Plant                                                            120
Subtotal Base Cost              710
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)            841
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                            28
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equpet an   orks                                              198
Subtotal              226
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                              17
Supervision of Construction                                                                      27
Subtotal               44
Taxes and Duties              278
Total Project Cost             1,389
Total Loan Amount               1 000
(I)Vodokanal contribution: 32% oftotal TA
-58 -



13) Vologda. Population/Population Served: 303,000/265,000                        Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program
Rehabilitation of Pumping Station                                                         504
Installation of Water Meters                                                              470
Subtotal Base Cost            974
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)       1156
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                      179
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                   2,762
Subtotal           2 941
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                       240
Supervision of Construction                                                                107
Subtotal             347
Taxes and Duties           1111
Total Project Cost           5.556
Total Loan Amount             4,000
(I)Vodokanal contribution: 32% of total TA
14) Votkinsk Population/Population Served: 102,400/91,000                         Total Cost
(000 US$)
Immediate Investment Program
Rehabilitation of Water Treatment Plant                                                   467
Improvement of Pumping Efficiency                                                         500
Subtotal Base Cost            967
Subtotal (Incl. Contingencies)        1 147
Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
Technical Assistance and Training (1)                                                       62
Investment in Hardware, Software, Equipment, and Works                                     384
Subtotal             446
Engineering Services
Final Designs and Bidding Documents                                                         33
Supervision of Construction                                                                40
Subtotal              73
Taxes and Duties             417
Total Project Cost           2,083
Total Loan Amount             1.500
(I)Vodokanal contribution: 32% of total TA
- 59 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Pro ectComponent                                       Local           Foreign            Total
1. Immediate Investment Program                          24,324   _       35,630           59,012
2. Management Strengthening and
Operational Improvement Program
2.1 Technical Assistance and Training                     1,260            5,040            6,300
2.2 Investment Support                                   21,564           32,347           53,911
3. Project Management and Implementation Support                  _
3.1 Final Designs and Bidding Documents                   2,772            4,158      _    6,930
3.2 Supervision of Construction                           1,493            1,493            2,987
3.3 General Procurement Assistance                          200             800             1,000
3.4 NFHR/Project Implementation Unit                      3,600             400   _         4,000
Project Cost                                             53,214           79,868          134,140
Taxes and Duties (25 % of Project Cost)                13,303           19,967           33,535
Total Project Cost                                       66,517           99,835          167,675
- 60 -



Project Cost by Catery                                   Locak           Foreign            Total
Investments
1. Immediate Investment Program                           22,324           35,630            59,012
Goods                                                      5,841           35,630            42,529
Works                                                     16,483                             16,483
2.2 Management Strengthening and
Operational Improvement Program                           21,564   _       32,347            53,911
Goods                                                      6,506           32,347            38,853
Works                                                     15,058                             15,058
Services
2.1 Technical Assistance and Training                      1,260            5,040             6,300
3.1 Final Designs and Bidding Documents                    2,772            4,158             6,930
3.2 Supervision of Construction                            1,493             1 ,493           2,987
3.3 General Procurement Assistance                           200              800             1,000
3.4 NFHR/Project Implementation Unit                       3,600              400             4,000
Project Cost                                              53,214           79,868           134,140
Taxes and Duties (25% of Project Cost)                   13,303           19,967            33,535
Total Project Cost                                        66,517           99,835           167,675
Front End Fee                                                                                  1,225
Total Financing required                                                                    168,900
- 61 -



Project Financing Plan                                    Total      Vodokanal       Federal Government
000 US$    Loan       Cash       Loan      Cash
1. Immediate Investment Program                          59,012    52,991      6,021
Taxes and Duties    14,753               14,753
2. Management Strengthening and
Operational Improvement Program
2.1 Technical Assistance and Training                  6,300      2000                4,300
Taxes and Duties     1,575                 500                 1,075
2.2 Investment Support                                53,911    48,067      5,845
Taxes and Duties    13,478               13,478
3. Project Management and Implementation Support
3.1 Final Designs and Bidding Documents                6,930     6,930
Taxes and Duties     1,732                1,732
3.2 Supervision of Construction                        2,987     2,987
Taxes and Duties      747                  747
3.3 General Procurement Assistance*                    1,000
Taxes and Duties      250                                       250
3.4 NFHRJProject Implementation Unit                   4,000                          4,000
Taxes and Duties     1,000                                     1,000
Project Cost (Without Taxes and Duties)                 134,140
Total Taxes and Duties (25% of Project Cost)    33,535
Total Project Cost                                      167,675   112,975    43,075      8,300      2,325
Front End Fee                                             1,225     1,141                   84
Total Financing Required                                168,900   114,116    43,075      8,384      2,325
% of Total                                                100%     67.6%      25.5%       5.0%      1.4%
* To be financed by Sweden (SIDA).
- 62 -



Annex 4
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Economic Analysis Summary
In order to evaluate in more detail the operation of the water supply and wastewater networks and treatment
systems, about 54 percent of anticipated rehabilitation investments have been specified at the time of
appraisal. These investments, which are part of the Immediate Investment Program, were selected because
they are demonstrably of the highest priority, are well-defined, clearly justified, and can bring an
identifiable benefit in the short-term. The investments cover a sufficient range of cities and interventions to
provide a reliable guide to economic returns to the program.
The economic assessment has been carried out for typical representative sample of physical rehabilitation
investments included in the Immediate Investment Program. These investments can be classified into four
categories: (i) energy savings and improvement in network operations and reliability, for example, through
installation of higher-efficiency pumps with more adequate specifications; (ii) reduction in water losses and
related improvement in quality of water supply service through rehabilitation and replacement of specific
sections of mains and distribution pipes with demonstrated technical problems and risk of failure; (iii)
water quality improvement through rehabilitation and upgrading of treatment facilities, only for those cases
with clearly identified deficiencies in water quality parameters of treated water that could be solved with
specific cost-effective physical interventions and where the quality problems are bad enough that they had
become serious political and social issues; and (iv) rehabilitation of wastewater treatment plant components
to improve the quality of effluent treatment discharged into water bodies, and to reduce the associated
environmental deterioration and health risks, in specific cases where the deterioration of facilities and their
location was identified as a significant problem affecting the environment and economic activities.
In terms of volume of investments, the first two categories (energy savings/network operations
improvement and rehabilitation of wastewater treatment components) account for about 35 percent each of
the Imnmediate Investment Program, followed by water loss reduction and water quality improvement at
about 15 percent each of the Immediate Investment Program. The interventions under the Management
Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program are expected to have a larger share of water loss
reduction interventions, after better technical information on the network and its deficiencies are collected
during project implementation. Details of the analysis for projects in the Immediate Investment Program
are available in the Technical Assessment and Investment Proposal reports in the project files. A brief
summary of the selected sample of investments is presented in the following sections.
(a) Ener2v Savings and Network Overation Imorovement
Cheboksary Subproject (US$807,000): The objective of this investment is the operational improvement
of the raw water intake by replacing the pumping units, drainage pumps, and valves; installation of air
pressure vessels; rehabilitation of rising mains; and installation of flow meters. These components are in
very poor state and any malfunctioning can result in severe problems to the water supply system.
The investment will result in: (i) reduction of annual energy consumption, estimated at 2.02 million kWh
per year, due to increased pump efficiency; (ii) reduction of power plant requirements by an estimated 0.3
million kWh per year; and (iii) increased system safety and reliability due to the replacement of old pumps
near complete break-down.
-63 -



The economic analysis focuses on the energy savings associated with this subproject. Other benefits, in
terms of higher reliability, imnprovement of system operations, and reduction of risk of water supply failures
are more difficult to estimate given the limited data available. The basic assumptions made to estimate the
energy savings are the following: (i) the shadow price of electricity is about the same price charged to
consumers as estimated by the Bank's Energy Group.; and (ii) the annual energy savings realized are
proportional to the cumulative percentage of the total investmnents with a one-year lag: (second year 40%,
third year 80%, fourth year and after 100%).
Based on these assumption, the ERR is estimated at 16.3 percent and the NPV at about US$274,494.
Details of the estimates are provided below:
Table A4-1: Cheboksary Su project - Economic Evaluation of Enery Saving
Year                    2000      2001     2002    2003      2004    2005
Investment                                322,800   322,800  161,400
Reduction of annual energy requirement         0   808,000 1,616,000 2,020,000 2,020,000 2,020,000
(in million kWh)
Savings (in USS)                               0    50,096  100,192  125,240  125,240  125,240
Reduction of annual energy requirement for     0   120,000  240,000  300,000  300,000  300,000
power plant                                   _I 
Savings (in US$)                               0     7,440   14,880   18,600   18,600   18,600
Total savings      0    43,152   86,304  107,880  107,880   10,880
Net benefit flow  (322,800) (279,648)  (75,096)  107,880  107,880  107,880
NPV   274,494
ERR    16.3%;/__
Sensitivity test: The sensitivity of the ERR to the price of electricity was analyzed. If electricity were to be
shadow priced at 25% below the average price (i.e., US$0.047 per kWh), the ERR would be 10.9%.
(b) Reduction of Water Losses and Improvements of Water Supply Services
Nakhodka Subproject (US$2.036 million): Out of the city's 160,000 inhabitants, an estimated 100,000
suffer from water supply limitations, with about 80,000 getting an average 6 hours or less (in some areas
less than 4 hours) of water supply per day. The low level of services in the southern part of the system is a
result from the lack of overall water system planning and separate ownership. This has resulted in many
small systems with separate inadequate sources in some cases. Furthermore, water quality is affected by
the run-down state of key mains and pipes and the intermittent service which allows infiltration.
The investment, estimated at about US$2.036 million, consists of the following: (i) replacement of selected
pumping equipment, and some meters and gauges; (ii) expansion of the pumping station by 20,000 m3/day
to improve the supply of the southern part of town by using the available capacity of vodokanal treatment
facilities; and (iii) addition of connecting pipelines related to pumping station expansion.
Expected benefits for the population include: (i) 24-hour supply to the entire population; (ii) improvement
in water quality (not accounted); and (iii) the investments would lead to the closure of several (at least
eight) inefficient and high-cost pumping stations, resulting in a savings of about 20 percent in the related
water production costs.
Willingness-to-pay studies for Nakhodka have shown that, while the average payment for water services is
around RUR 10 per capita per month, inhabitants would be willing to pay up to RUR 21 per capita per
month (equivalent to about US$10 per year) for improved water supply and wastewater services. Out of
- 64 -



this amount, about US$8 for water supply would be for a regular 24 hour water supply at improved
quality.
Basic assumptions in the analysis are the following: (i) average water consumption for population in the
city is 250 lpcd (based on Nakhodka vodokanal Data); and (ii) annual savings are proportional to the
cumulative investment disbursement with a one-year lag: (second year 40%, third year 80%, fourth year
and after 100%).
Details of the estimated economic benefits are provided in Table A4-2. The total benefits from the
investment would come from two sources: (i) the projected savings in water production costs, and (ii) the
value to the inhabitants from 24-hour supply at improved quality.
Table A4-2: Nakhodka Component - Estimated Economic Benefits
Year                                        2000         2001        2002        2003
Population (Yuzhny)                            80,000      80,000       80,000      80,000
Water production per year            m3      7,300,000    7,300,000    7,300,000    7,300,000
Savings                             RUR            0    2,219,200    4,438,400    5,548,000
Savings                             US$            0       88,768      177,536     221,920
NPV of savings                      US$    1,474,922
Investment     USS      814,400      814,400     407,200
NPV of Investment                   US$    1,719,356       T !_     _ _   I
The savings in production costs are estimated to have an NPV of about US$1.47 million. On comparing
this to the NPV of the investments, US$1.72 million, the residual cost is about US$0.24 million. This is
the estimated cost of securing the 24-hour supply at improved quality, and translates into a cost per
inhabitant of US$3.06 per year. This cost is much lower than the amount consumers would be willing to
pay, estimated as approximately US$8 for water services per year from available studies.
Sensitivity test: To take into account the possible effects on water consumption from improved demand
management through metering, sensitivity of the economic benefits have been tested for a reduction in per
capita consumption levels from 250 Ipcd to 150 Ipcd. This will reduce the NPV of the savings to about
US$0.82 million, increasing thereby the residual cost attributed to improving the regularity and quality of
water supply. This cost will increase to a level of US$10.29 per inhabitant. This one-time cost can be
compared to the annual differential of US$8 which consumers are willing to pay for improved water supply
services, and therefore remains justifiable.
(c) Water Quality Improvement
Volkhov Subproject (US$450,000): The subproject addresses critically needed improvements in the water
treatment facilities currently serving about 10,000 consumers (or about 20% of the city's population) living
in residential areas near the railway station. The majority of the population in the city of Volkhov (about
35,000) receive water from the treatment plant run by the vodokanal. The population living near the
railway station currently receive water from a 100-year old dilapidated treatment plant. In addition, the
raw water intake of this treatment plant is located downstream of a dam structure at the hydroelectric
power plant, and not far enough from where highly polluted liquid waste is discharged from the aluminum
factory yards with very high concentration of fluoride-ions and heavy metals. The quality of treated water
does not meet Russian or international standards for potable water. Tests conducted by the vodokanal
confirm that the water is not drinkable and can be considered as a threat to public health.
Instead of implementing an expensive rehabilitation of the treatment plant serving the population around the
- 65 -



railway station, this sub-component is designed to take advantage of the excess capacity of the main water
treatment plant of the city. However, even though the vodokanal's left bank transmission line runs parallel
to the railway company's raw water line, the two systems cannot be connected as there is not enough
pressure. The subproject includes the construction of a booster station and storage facilities, associated
with this second pressure zone.
A detailed economic analysis of the health benefits associated with the improvement of the quality of water
distributed to the population near the railway station was not performed. However, the quality of treated
water provided by the nearly 100-year old railway treatment plant does not meet the minimum potable
water quality standards required by local laws, or by the WHO, and is potentially dangerous to public
health. The results of the quality analysis are available in the project files. This subproject was identified
as the most important priority for the vodokanal and is expected to create favorable conditions for project
implementation among the population served by the vodokanal.
(d) Wastewater Treatment Imorovement
Sochi Subproject (US$21.22 million): The city of Sochi is one of most popular resort centers of the
Russian Federation. It is located on the Black Sea with a population of about 393,000 inhabitants. Sochi's
economy is primarily based upon tourism during both the winter and summer seasons. Although the
number of visitors has dropped from 2.5 million in 1986 to about 700,000 in 1996, there are signs of a
recent upturn.
Two wastewater treatment plants (WWTP - Nagavinsky and Bzugu) process the wastewater flow from the
city center. Up to 70% of the wastewater flow from the city center goes to the Nagavinsky WWTP. It is
located in the immediate neighborhood of the residential and resort areas, without special protection zones.
It is heavily overloaded, its facilities are dilapidated, and it has been operating under an "emergency"
regime for many years. This has increased the chances of an overflow accident, which can seriously affect
both recreation and industrial facilities (railroad station). The plant has operational problems such as
unacceptable odors and poorly treated effluent. These create a serious annoyance for the tourists and the
population. The Bzugu WWTP has been operating at 30-40% of its design capacity. Both WWTPs
discharge their effluents into the Black Sea, and the outflow from the Nagavinsky WWTP goes through an
outfall near the popular beaches. The Black Sea is locked by the Bosphorus Straits from the Marmara Sea
and the rest of Mediterranean Sea. Consequently, it does not have strong tides or heavy sea storms, and its
capacity for natural self clean up from pollution is very low.
The city administration understands that the Nagavinsky WWTP cannot comply with permanent treatment
standards. It therefore established "provisional" standards for the effluent for this plant. These standards
are much lower than the general standards for Sochi. The key parameters for both set of norms and actual
discharge parameters are presented in the following table.
Table A43: Quality Parameters of Effluent from Na avinsky WWTP
Permanent Standard    Provisional Standard  Actual Discharge (mg/1)
(mg/l)               (mg/l)
Suspended Solids       25                    25                  17
BOD20                  7.8                  25                   20
Oil and Grease        0.05                  0.5                  0.5
Detergents             0.1                  1.0                  3.0
- 66 -



As shown in Table A4-3, the Nagavinsky WWTP is not able to produce an effluent of quality that would
comply with the strict permanent standards. Furthermore, with the continuing further deterioration of the
plant, soon it will not be able to comply even with the more lenient "provisionar' standards. Being located
in the city center it cannot be expanded and its equipment is very old.
Eventually, the Nagavinsky WWTP would have to be removed from operation, given its location and low
efficiency. However, the cost of building a new WWTP is beyond the financial capacity of the vodokanal.
Another alternative considered was to divert all flow from the Nagavinsky WWTP to the newly built
Dagomys WWTP. However, this option was rejected on economic considerations. The Dagomys WWTP
is located much further and it is necessary to pump the wastewater flow over the mountain chain.
Therefore, as a first stage in the efforts to reduce the impacts of effluents from the Nagavinsky WWTP, the
subproject will supports the rehabilitation and capacity enhancement of the Bzugu WWTP, which will be
able to treat 71,000 m3/day, from its current level of 41,000 m3/day. The newer facilities of the Bzugu
WWTP and the more appropriate location would provide improved effluent quality at a lower cost.
Additionally, the connection main between the Bzugu and Nagavinsky WWTPs has already been
constructed. Even though the proposed subproject would not result in an immediate closure of the
Nagavinsky WWTP, the reduced inflow volumes would result in a more manageable situation, the capacity
to undertake the proper maintenance ability, and overall increase of operational and energy efficiency in
both plants.
The investment at the Bzugu WWTP include: (i) rehabilitation and expansion of the liquid treatment
installations; (ii) installation of new pumps at pumping stations, including related items; and (iii)
construction of new sludge treatment installations.
The expected benefits of the proposed project include: (i) optimization of the flows treated at Nagavinsky
and Bzugu WWTPs; (ii) higher efficiency of operations of both plants with lower operating costs; (iii)
improved effluent quality and reduced pollution on the Black Sea environment and the recreational beaches;
and (iv) reduction of risk of overflow and accidents with consequences on recreational and industrial
facilities surrounding the Nagavinsky plant.
- 67 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
During project preparation, detailed financial assessments of each vodokanal were prepared by
international consultants, with particular emphasis on the recasting of the vodokanals' financial
statements according to International Accounting Standards.  Section E.2 in the main text
summarizes the main problems encountered in these analyses. One of the most important
objectives of the financial assessment was to determine the size of each individual Subsidiary Loan,
based on the financial capacity of the vodokanal and reasonable expectations on the increases in
tariffs and revenue collection, and the commitment demonstrated by the participating vodokanals,
cities and Oblasts to these reforms.
This annex summarizes the key findings of the financial evaluation and presents the results of the
financial projection model developed to assess the financial positions of the vodokanals over the life
of the project, as well as the financial targets they are expected to comply with. The detailed
assessments are found in the Project Files for each vodokanal, along with an evaluation of the
effects of the 1998 financial crisis.
Effects of the 1998 Financial Crisis
After appraisal of the project in 1998, the financial crisis of the country and the fivefold
devaluation of the ruble affected significantly the financial position of all vodokanals, although to
varying degrees. Some vodokanals and municipalities have devised strategies to cope with the
crisis and keep their operations running. Table A5-1 presents a summary of the financial
performance of vodokanals in 1997, 1998 and 1999. All values are shown net of VAT. The main
highlights of the '97 through '99 comparison are:
*   The effect of inflation on O&M costs and the reduced industrial consumption (one of the main
sources of revenue for vodokanals) had a negative impact on the financial situation of
vodokanals. Even though billed revenues are in theory sufficient to cover O&M expenses for
some of the vodokanals, the collection of billed revenues dropped in 1998 and the improvement
in collection in 1999 was not sufficient to match soaring costs; cash collection continued at
very low levels with few exceptions.
*   Many vodokanals were not allowed to increase tariffs to levels that would allow them to
collect enough revenue to cover O&M costs; cross-subsidies between industrial and domestic
consumers remain very high (on average industrial tariffs are about six times larger than
domestic tariffs, as illustrated in Table A5-2); the industrial recession and the large industrial
tariffs have forced industries in some vodokanals to find altemative sources of water; and the
domestic tariffs have not been noticeably increased in 9 of the project vodokanals between
1997 and 1999.
*   Maintenance expenses continued to be very low for many vodokanals (many of the project
vodokanals have maintenance costs below 1% of the estimated value of assets) and many of
them have been forced to further reduce maintenance costs between 1997 and 1999.
- 68 -



Table A51: Effect of 1998 Financial Crisis on Vodokanal's Financial Position
1997       1998        1999                    1997        199S       1999                    1997        1998        1999
Astakhan                                       Nalebik                                        Sochi
Revenues   72,743      90,996      109,227     Revenues   36,429       53,060     61,473      Revenues   166,S90      169,686     227,816
Billed                                         Billed                                         Billed
(Krubles)
Collection   68.434    66,818      89,239      Collection   26,997     36,424     43,744      Collection   171,421    152,367     227,130
(Krubles)                                                                            .                       .
Cash       35,428      36,094      45,496      Cash        9,871       12,479      14,703     Cash        111,131     127,988     131,389
(Krubles)  I                      I                       I_I_I
Total      65,199      68,919      95,837      Total       58,031      56,842      52,008     Total       128,110     111.214     186,053
Expenses                                       Expenses                                       Expenses
(Krubles)
Maintenanc 48          40          20          Maintenance 26          33         35          Maintenance 3           8           7
e/cap (Rb)                                     Jp/cap
Cheboksar                                      Oryol                                          Tobelsk
Revenues   121,981     122,591     127,372     Revenues   68,060       66,597     72,349      Revenues   54,432       32,852      37,345
Billed                                         Billed                                         Billed
Collection   106,823   87,873      120,585     Collection   49,265     60,603     76,687      Collection   35,811     24,762      27,247
Cash       18,617      20,194      22,380      Cash        19,075      15,562     27,691      Cash        8,085       7,392       8,709
Total      60,853      82,208      107,116     Total       69,668      62,959     76,502      Total       49,784      41,080      47,289
Expenses                                            ses                                       Expenses
Maintenanc  20         34          29          Maintenance 45          23          38         Maintenance 28           9          29
e_cap                                         /cap                                            /cap
Gagarin   I_Pechora                                                                           Volkhov
Revenues   9,498       8,100       9,265       Revenues   31,967       30,922     37,461      Revenues   15,208       9,325       20.163
Billed                                         Billed                                         Billed     I
Collection   7,416     7,200       8,504       Collection   31,743     14,653      15,226     Collection   8,753      9,900       15,420
Cash       3,130       3,050       3,793       Cash        1,377       1,213      6,710       Cash       NMA          4,239       10,343
Total      9,737       8,630       10,082      Total       19,696      24,139     30,840      Total       14,193      14,814      17,401
Expenses                                      1Expenses                             .         ixpenses
Maintenanc  66         34          5           Maintenance 24          16          24         Maintenance 6           3           16
e/cap                                          cal                                            /
Kansk                                          Petrozavod                                     Vologda
sk
Revenues   26,168      34,152      44,369      Revenues   57,719       81,513     78,922      Revenues   84,001       87,386      88,223
Billed                                         Billed                                         Billed     I_                                  I
Collection   23,158    22,077      28,330      Collection   66,246     75,975     76,763      Collection   62,320     73,214      94,900
Cash       5,230       2,125       4,582       Cash        12,097      12,479      19,405     Cash        17,360      10,344      23.063
Total       16,952     32,014      33,478      Total       51,213      51,835     70,029      Total       48,702      74,304      88.004
Expenses                                       Expenses                                       Expeses
Maintenarc  8          16          28          Maintenance 21          35          35         Maintenance 10          15          7
e/cap                                         /cap                                            /Cap     _
Nakhodka                                       Pskov                                          Votkinsk
Revenues   73,073      88,217      90,678      Revenues   54,211       62,399     66,476      Revenues   14,265       13.101      15,288
Billed                                         Billed                                         Billed     I
Collection   71,800    45,380      65,009      Collection   45,346     27,502     45,726      Collection   11,854     13,141      14,619
Cash       17,591      3,068       19,183      Cash        11,785      10,813     23,521      Cash        3,327       4,092       4,913
Total      49,967      55,507      79,309      Total       44,296      41,724     57,151      Total       17,511      20,076      18,049
Expenses                                       Expenses                _________Expenses    ____    _______
Maintensec  20         35          37          Maintenance 18          27         7           Maintenance 40          40          48
e/cap       -   -                   -  -                              9/cap                   /cap
-69 -



Table A5-2: Industrial/Domestic Cross-Subsidy
City                                    Industrial tariff I Domestic tariff
1996           1997            1998            1999
Astrakhan                           4.3            4.3             8.6             4.3
Cheboksary                         21.5            8.7             8.7             5.8
Gagarin                            13.8           13.8             14.9            9.0
Kansk                              4.1             4.9             2.5             1.0
Nakhodka                            6.4            16.2            16.2            7.5
Otyol                              51.6           51.0            32.3            22.9
Pechora                             4.9            3.3             1.0             1.0
Petrozavodsk                        5.5            3.5             3.0             3.0
Pskov                               6.2            3.7             2.7             2.3
Sochi                              65.3           27.1             9.0             8.6
Tobolsk                             2.9            2.9             3.7             8.0
Volkhov                             3.4            3.4             3.4             1.2
Vologda                            13.8            7.6             7.6             7.2
Votkinsk                            7.2            6.1             6.1             3.4
Average                            14.5            10.6            8.2             5.9
Median                              6.4            4.9             6.1             4.3
Water and Wastewater Tariff Setting Policies and Procedures
Generally, tariffs for water and wastewater services are calculated by the vodokanals on a quarterly
basis following the "Guidelines for Calculation of Economically Justified Rates and Tariffs for
Housing and Communal Services" approved by the Order of the Russian Federation Committee for
Municipal Economy No. 56 dated November 9, 1993. In compliance with the Guidelines, the
Economic Department of the vodokanal estimates the production cost per m3 of service for the next
quarter taking into account the most recent data on O&M costs. The vodokanal then translates the
cost of m3 of service into tariffs for each of the three key groups of customers - domestic, budget
organizations and industry. The tariffs are calculated so that when multiplied by the respective
consunption volumes of each consumer group (mostly calculated using standard consumnption
norms), the result is equal to the total expected costs of the vodokanal for the given period.
Additionally, a "profitability" margin is added on top of each tariff basis, in the form of a fixed
percentage. Usually, the profitability percentage is different for each consumer group. The lowest
percentage (and in some cases no increase) is applied to domestic consumers. The profitability
percentage for industry is the largest and is as high as 25%.
However, in compliance with the Russian Federation Law Decree No. 552 and Instructions for
Accounting issued by the Ministry of Finance, certain costs are not included in the production cost
such as bad debts, interest on capital investments, bonuses to employees, employee health benefits,
and other payments. These costs can only be paid out of the profits. Furthermore, as the
vodokanals are local natural monopolies, the approval of each change of its tariffs is decided by the
local (municipal and/or Oblast) authorities. Generally, the procedure does not involve open
hearings nor it is transparent to the public, and tends to be highly political.
- 70 -



Financial Conditionsfor Participation of Vodokanals in the Project
In order to address the main issues affecting the financial position of vodokanals and to test the
commitment of the participating cities and Oblasts, a group of financial conditions were discussed
and it was agreed to incorporate them into the project and during project implementation. In order
for a vodokanal to be included in the project, they had to submit evidence confirming that: (i) tariffs
had been raised to a level sufficient to collect enough revenues to at least cover the expected
operating and adequate maintenance costs during the current fiscal year and reach one half of the
increase in collected revenues required for project initiation (which includes project related
expenses); (ii) cash collection for the period January-September 1999 reached at least the same
level of 1998; (iii) and written confirmation of the commitment to comply with the financial
covenants included in the Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement.
These financial conditions include:
*   Ensure that for each of the fiscal years during Sub-project implementation, the vodokanal's
collected operating revenues are sufficient to meet its operational expenses, adequate
maintenance expenses, and other Sub-project related expenses for that fiscal year;
*   Ensure that the overall collection ratio of each Participating Vodokanal, defined as amounts
collected by such Participating Vodokanal during the preceding fiscal year divided by accrued
revenues for the same period, is equal to not less than 60% in year 2000, and is equal to or
higher than the percentage corresponding to the linear increase thereafter, up to the level of
85%, required for year 2004;
3   Ensure that for each of the Participating Vodokanal's fiscal years during Sub-project
implementation, the Participating Vodokanal's cash collection is not less than the sum of the
1998 cash collection level in constant (inflation-adjusted) terms and total Sub-project related
expenses for that fiscal year; if the cash collection ratio of the Participating Vodokanal in 1998
was less than seventy percent (70%), ensure that during Sub-project implementation, the cash
collection ratio for such Participating Vodokanal increases from its 1998 level by no less than
the linear interpolation between the 1998 level and the value of seventy percent (70%) for
2004, defined by the following formula: (70%  -- cash collection in 1998)x(fiscal year -
1998)/6;
v   By or before April 15 each of the vodokanal's fiscal years during Sub-project implementation,
the vodokanal, city and Oblast shall review, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
vodokanal and satisfactory to the Bank, whether the vodokanal would be able to meet the
financial covenants of the project and promptly take all necessary measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of the structure or level of its water and wastewater tariffs) in order to
meet such requirements;
*   If the vodokanal received operational subsidies in the year 1998, ensure that the total
operational subsidies, if any, to be made by the Oblast or City, shall not increase from the 1998
level during the first year of Sub-project implementation, and that such subsidies are reduced
following a linear decrease schedule so as to be eliminated entirely by the end of Sub-project
implementation;
*   If the  vodokanal did not receive operational subsidies in the year 1998, ensure that the
vodokanal receive no such subsidies during Sub-project implementation; and
*   Ensure that the vodokanal is not required by the City or Oblast to provide mandated benefits to
preferred customers beyond those in effect by June 30, 2000.
- 71 -



Financial Position of Vodokanals in 1999 (actual) and Projectionsfor 2000-2005
A financial projection model has been developed to assess the financial positions of the vodokanals over the
life of the project. One of the most important items in the financial assessment was the recasting of the
financial statements of vodokanals according to IAS. The accounting system and techniques used by the
Russian Vodokanals are primarily focused on the taxation aspects. For example, in the financial reports of
Vodokanals, there is general confusion between billed and collected revenues, and between expenses
incurred or expenditures actually paid to creditors. Additionally, in order to obtain a clear picture of the
financial situation of a vodokanal, it is necessary to do a proper distribution of revenues and expenditures
by categories and connecting receivables, revenues and collections on one hand, and payables, expenses and
expenditures on the other hand. These analyses were completed during project preparation with the help of
intemational consultants.
Based on the 1999 actual financial position, a series of financial projections were developed to be
discussed and agreed with the participating vodokanals, cities and Oblasts regarding the maximum
size of the Subsidiary Loan they could afford, taking into account reasonable tariff and collection
increases, while aiming for reduction of cross-subsidization and maintaining the domestic tariffs
within affordable limits for the population. Based on the projected scenarios, the Subsidiary Loan
sizes were determined, and based on those, the physical investments were defined, as described in
Annex 2. The specific details are presented in the Sub-Project Appraisal Documents.
The main assumptions on which the financial projections are based, are the following:
Tariffs, Sales and Collection
o   The volume of water sold does not increase as a result of slow or negative population growth,
coupled with improvement in the vodokanals' commercial management including waste
reduction program and expansion of metering and consumption-based billing;
*   Bill collection is expected to rise by 5 percent a year on average from the current level for all
categories of consumers;
*   The tariff level is calculated by the financial model to provide the vodokanals - given present
rates of collection and above assumptions about their improvement - with the revenue needed
to: (i) cover their operating costs and adequate maintenance costs; (ii) generate contribution to
the costs (after taxes) of the investment program; and (iii) service their debt. The vodokanals,
City and Oblasts authorities have agreed on the vodokanal's level of borrowing under the
project on the basis of the tariff increase schedule they decided was socially and politically
reasonable; and
*   Subsidization of the tariff for residential consumer by the municipality, if any, is assumed to be
eliminated over a period of 5 years.
Investments
*   The vodokanal's investment program is comprised of the Bank-financed project. Vodokanals
contribute ten percent of the total project cost, net of taxes and duties, plus the taxes and duties
estimated at 25 percent of net project cost; and
*   Investments are assumed to take place over a period of five years as follows: 5 percent in 2001,
15 percent in 2002, 25 percent in 2003, 30 percent in 2004 and 25 percent in 2005.
- 72 -



Depreciation
*   The depreciation charges are calculated on the basis of the financial review of the vodokanals'
accounts performned by the financial consultants, to which has been added the additional
depreciation resulting from the investment program. Based on the type of goods and equipment
that will be acquired under the project, additional capital investment is estimated to be
depreciated, on average, over a period of 15 years.
Income Taxes and VAT
*   The income taxes are estimated, according to current Russian legislation, on the basis of
"income before taxes plus losses on receivables" to reflect the fact that the vodokanals are not
currently allowed to make provision for losses on receivables that are less than three years old.
The income tax rate is estimated to be 35 percent.
*   All  figures in the projections exclude VAT to ensure accurate comparison between
Vodokanals, as they use different approaches towards accounting for VAT for tax purposes.
Exchange Rate and Inflation
a   All financial figures, including projected tariffs, are presented in constant 1999 levels. The
vodokanals understand that tariffs would need to be raised additionally to match the increases
in operation and maintenance costs associated with inflation; and
*   The exchange rate used for the financial projections is IUS$=28RUR.
The financial summary of the fifteen vodokanals is presented at the end of this annex. Given the
potential variation in prices of inputs for the adequate operation and maintenance activities of
vodokanals, the risks of inflation and devaluation, and other factors involved, the financial position
of the vodokanals will be monitored every quarter and a detailed financial evaluation will be
undertaken every fiscal year to determine the required tariff increases and other changes in the
commercial and financial strategies of the vodokanal to achieve the project objectives. The Loan
Agreement provides the safeguards to ensure that non-compliant vodokanals are eliminated from
the project.
Main Financial Risks Facing Vodokanals
The financial assessment of vodokanals and the lessons learned from the effects of the 1998
financial crisis on vodokanals indicate that they will face four main financial risks outside their area
of influence, namely:
*   Further depreciation of the ruble would translate into a more expensive Subsidiary Loan in US
Dollar denominated currency which would require even higher increases in tariffs.
*   Industrial consumption, the major source of revenues for most Vodokanals, decreased between
1997 and 1999. Participating Vodokanals reported that in some cases this drop was due to the
reduction in industrial output and in others to the use of altemative sources of water as
industries search for ways to reduce production costs. If the drop continues in coming years,
the domestic consumers would have a greater burden to share in the revenues of the Vodokanal,
and therefore tariff increases would be larger than planned. This risk would be mitigated by
the project condition to reduce the cross-subsidy between industrial and domestic consumers
- 73 -



and by including in the performance and service agreement measures to monitor the industrial
consumers separately: number, consumption, revenues and collection.
*   Inflation: As all the tariff projections have to be increased by the inflation rate, if this rate
continues to increase, tariffs for all consumers will have to increase at the same rate.
*   Resistance from municipalities and Oblasts to raise tariffs at a level required to collect at least
sufficient revenues to cover O&M and sub-project-related expenses.
- 74 -



Vodocanal of                          Astrakhan
Thousands of Rubles
1999    2000      2001      2002      2003      2004       2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(OOOm3) -                      89,546   89,546   89,546    89,546    89,546    89,546    89,546
Water&Wastewater
Water&Wastewater Billed Revenues            109,227  121,637  153,574   174,160   204,143   218,945   210,572
Subsidies                                      600      500      400        300       200       100
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                            89,239   98,397  124,232   147,929   182,066   205,030   204,768
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)         82%      81%      81%       85%       89%       94%        97%
Collected Cash                               45,496   49,198   65,222    81,361   104,688   123,018   122,861
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue
Collected)                                     51%      50%      53%       55%       58%       60%        60%
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                    28,189   28,189   28,189    28,189    28,189    28,189    28,189
Energy                                       12,901   12,901   12,901    12,901    12,901    12,901     12,901
Chemicals and Materials                      29,632   29,632   29,632    29,632    29,632    29,632     29,632
Minimum Adequate Maintenance                  6,402    6,402    6,402     6,402     6,402     6,402      6,402
Other Operating Costs
Social Payments                              11,678   11,678   11,678    11,678    11,678    11,678     11,678
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other           6,363    6,363    6,363     6,363     6,363     6,363      6,363
than profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets                  20,517   20,517   20,517    20,517    20,517    20,517    20,517
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                            1,313     5,250     11,813
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs                  115,682  115,682  115,682   115,682   116,995   120,932    127,495
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses          672      672      672        672       672       672        672
Total Operating Expenses                    116,354  116,354  116,354   116,3S4   117,667   121,604   128,167
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance          95,837   95,837   95,837    95,837    95,837    95,837    95,837
Costs
Profit Tax                                             2,560   13,862    24,230    38,705    47,374    47,374
Debt Service (including fees)                                   7,182     5,812    10,773    17,719    24,806
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                             7,350    22,050    36,750    44,100     36,750
Total:                                       95,837   98,397  124,232   147,929   182,066   205,030   204,768
Capital Expenditures                                           26,250    78,750   131,250   157,500   131,250
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                       0.83     0.83     1.23      1.57       1.99     2.19       2.19
Budget Organizations                           1.96     1.96     1.96      1.96      2.28      2.45       2.45
Industrial                                     3.60     3.60     3.60      3.60      3.60      3.60       3.60
- 75 -



Vodocanal of                          Cheboksary
Thousands of Rubles
1999         2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(OOOm3) -                    110,092    110,092   110,092   110,092   110,092   110,092   110,092
Water&Wastewater
Water&Wastewater Billed Revenues          127,372    135,787   164,277   183,508   211,730   226,522   226,522
Subsidies
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                         120,585    114,009   137,930   159,872   191,480   212,744   212,744
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)       95%       84%       84%       87%       90%       94%       94%
Collected Cash                             22,380     37,243   54,482    74,074   101,804   127,646   127,646
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue        19%       33%       40%       46%       53%       60%       60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                  13,642     13,642   13,642    13,642    13,642    13,642    13,642
Energy                                     20,800     20,800   20,800    20,800    20,800    20,800    20,800
Chemicals and Materials                    14,509     14,509   14,509    14,509    14,509    14,509    14,509
Minimum Adequate Maintenance               11,723     11,723    11,723    11,723    11,723    11,723    11,723
Other Operating Costs                      34,902     34,902   34,902    34,902    34,902    34,902    34,902
Social Payments                             5,252     5,252    5,252      5,252     5,252     5,252     5,252
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other         6,288      6,288    6,288     6,288     6,288     6,288     6,288
than profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets                15,701     15,701    15,701    15,701    15,701    15,701    15,701
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                            1,215     4,861    10,938
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs                122,817    122,817  122,817   122,817   124,032   127,678   133,755
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses
Total Operating Expenses                  122,817    122,817  122,817   122,817   124,032   127,678   133,755
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance       107,116    107,116   107,116   107,116   107,116   107,116   107,116
Costs
Profit Tax                                             6,893    17,358    26,958    40,361    48,388    48,388
Debt Service (including fees)                                   6,650     5,381     9,975    16,406    22,969
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                             6,806    20,417    34,028    40,833    34,028
Total:                                    107,116    114,009   137,930   159,872   191,480   212,744   212,500
Capital Expenditures                                           24,306    72,917   121,528   145,833   121,528
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                     0.50       0.50     0.82      1.10      1.49      1.70      1.70
Budget Organizations                         2.90       2.90     2.90      2.90      2.90      2.90      2.90
Industrial                                   2.90       2.90     2.90      2.90      2.90      2.90      2.90
- 76 -



Vodocanal of                              Gagarin
Thousands of Rubles
1999
(actual)    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(OOOm3) -
Water&Wastewater                              4,544   4,544    4,544    4,544    4,544    4,544    4,544
Water&Wastewater Billed Revenues              9,265  14,162   16,550   17,964   20,114   21,139   20,001
Subsidies
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                             8,504  11,350   13,263   15,019   17,547   19,249   19,249
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)         92%     80%      80%      84%      87%      91%     96%
Collected Cash                                3,793   3,708    5,239    6,959    9,329   11,549   11,549
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue
Collected)                                     45%     33%      40%      46%      53%      60%     60%
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                     2,387   2,387    2,387    2,387    2,387    2,387    2,387
Energy                                        3,231   3,231    3,231    3,231    3,231    3,231    3,231
Chemicals and Materials                         645     645      645      645     645      645      645
Minimum Adequate Maintenance                    144     144      144      144      144      144     144
Other Operating Costs                         1,483   1,483    1,483    1,483    1,483    1,483    1,483
Social Payments                                 918     918      918     918      918      918      918
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other than
profit tax)                                     829     829      829      829      829      829     829
Depreciation of 1999 Assets                     928     928      928      928     928       928     928
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired
under the Project                                                                  97       389     875
Total Tax-Deductible Costs                    10,565  10,565   10,565   10,565   10,662   10,954   11,440
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses           445     445      445      445     445       445     445
Total Operating Expenses                      11,010  11,010   11,010   11,010   11,107   11,399   11,885
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance Costs    10,082  10,082   10,082   10,082   10,082   10,082   10,082
Profit Tax                                             1,268    2,105    2,873    3,945    4,587    4,587
Debt Service (including fees)                                    532      431     798    1,313    1,838
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                              544    1,633    2,722    3,267    2,722
Total:                                        10,082  11,350   13,263   15,019   17,547   19,249   19,229
Capital Expenditures                                           1,944    5,833    9,722   11,667    9,722
Projected Tariffs (Rlm3)
Domestic                                       1.06    1.44     2.10     2.54     3.17     3.49     3.49
Budget Organizations                           9.86    9.86     9.86     9.86     9.86     9.86    9.86
Industrial                                     9.56    9.56     9.56     9.56     9.56     9.56     9.56
- 77 -



Vodocanal of                              Kansk
Thousands of Rubles
1999         2000    2001      2002    2003      2004      2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(00m3) -                      18,523   18,523   18,523   18,523   18,523    18,523    18,523
Water&Wastewater
Water&Wastewater Billed Revenues             44,369   61,237   83,634   99,217  121,335   132,755  123,188
Subsidies
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                            28,330   36,627   50,023   62,310   80,011    91,918   91,918
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)         64%      60%     60%      63%      66%       69%       75%
Collected Cash                                4,582    9,279   17,008   26,586   41,072    55,151    55,151
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue          16%      25%     34%      43%      51%       60%       60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                    12,574   12,574   12,574   12,574   12,574    12,574   12,574
Energy                                        6,230    6,230    6,230    6,230    6,230    6,230    6,230
Chemicals and Materials                       1,099    1,099    1,099    1,099    1,099     1,099    1,099
Minimum Adequate Maintenance                  2,436    2,436    2,436    2,436    2,436     2,436    2,436
Other Operating Costs                         4,359    4,359    4,359    4,359    4,359    4,359    4,359
Social Payments                               4,793    4,793    4,793    4,793    4,793    4,793    4,793
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other than      1,376    1,376    1,376    1,376    1,376     1,376    1,376
profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets                   3,920    3,920    3,920    3,920    3,920    3,920    3,920
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                           681      2,722    6,125
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs                   36,787   36,787   36,787   36,787   37,468    39,509   42,912
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses          611      611      611      611      611       611       611
Total Operating Expenses                     37,398   37,398   37,398   37,398   38,079    40,120   43,523
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance Costs    33,478   33,478   33,478   33,478   33,478    33,478   33,478
Profit Tax                                             3,149    9,009   14,385   21,891    26,386   26,386
Debt Service (including fees)                                   3,724    3,014    5,586    9,188    12,863
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                             3,811   11,433   19,056    22,867    19,056
Total:                                       33,478   36,627   50,023   62,310   80,011    91,918   91,782
Capital Expenditures                                           13,611   40,833   68,056    81,667   68,056
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                       3.54     3.54     4.52     5.36     6.55      7.17     7.17
Budget Organizations                           3.54     3.54     4.52     5.36     6.55      7.17     7.17
Industrial                                     3.53     3.53     4.52     5.36     6.55      7.17     7.17
- 78 -



Vodocanal of                             Nakhodka
Thousands of Rubles
1999     2000      2001      2002      2003     2004      2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(OOOm3) -                     29,905    29,905    29,905    29,905    29,905    29,905    29,905
Water&Wastewater
Water&WastewaterBilledRevenues              90,678   108,446   118,113   120,953   126,800   129,315   129,315
Subsidies
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                          65,009    85,876    93,531   100,552   110,667   117,471   117,471
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)       72%       79%       79%       83%       87%      91%       91%
Collected Cash                              19,183    20,610    30,865    42,232    56,440    70,483    70,483
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue        300/o     24%       33%       42%       51%      60%       60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                   18,810    18,810    18,810    18,810    18,810    18,810    18,810
Energy                                      28,903    28,903    28,903    28,903    28,903    28,903    28,903
Chemicals and Materials                       107       107       107       107      107       107       107
Minimum Adequate Maintenance                 5,835     5,835    5,835     5,835     5,835    5,835     5,835
Other Operating Costs                       5,303     5,303     5,303     5,303     5,303    5,303     5,303
Social Payments                             7,242     7,242     7,242     7,242     7,242    7,242     7,242
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other than    13,109    13,109    13,109    13,109    13,109    13,109    13,109
profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets                 9,273     9,273     9,273     9,273     9,273    9,273     9,273
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                             389      1,556    3,500
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs                  88,582    88,582    88,582    88,582    88,971    90,138    92,082
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses
Total Operating Expenses                    88,582    88,582    88,582    88,582    88,971    90,138    92,082
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance Costs  79,309    79,309    79,309    79,309    79,309    79,309    79,309
Profit Tax                                             6,567    9,916    12,988    17,277    19,845    19,845
Debt Service (including fees)                                   2,128     1,722     3,192    5,250     7,350
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                             2,178     6,533    10,889    13,067    10,889
Total:                                      79,309    85,876    93,531   100,552   110,667   117,471   117,393
Capital Expenditures                                            7,778    23,333    38,889    46,667    38,889
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                      1.30      2.15     2.58      2.71      2.97      3.07     3.07
Budget Organizations                          4.35      4.35     4.35      4.35      4.35     4.35      4.35
Industrial                                    9.73      9.73     9.73      9.73      9.73      9.73     9.73
- 79 -



Vodocanal of                               Oryol
Thousands of Rubles
1999            2000    2001      2002    2003    2004    2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(00m3) -                        69,801  69,801    69,801   69,801   69,801   69,801   69,801
Water&Wastewater
Water&Wastewater Billed Revenues               72,349  88,994   101,499  108,552  123,854  134,485  132,379
Subsidies                                       5,112   4,260     3,408    2,556    1,704     852
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                              81,799  81,713    93,195  103,728  118,899  129,106  128,989
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)          112%     92%       92%      96%      96%      96%     97%
Collected Cash                                 27,691  27,783    37,744   48,752   63,611   77,464   77,394
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue            34%     34%       41%      47%      54%      60%      60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                      17,728  17,728    17,728   17,728   17,728   17,728   17,728
Energy                                         29,585  29,585    29,585   29,585   29,585   29,585   29,585
Chemicals and Materials                         1,525   1,525     1,525    1,525    1,525    1,525    1,525
Minimum Adequate Maintenance                   10,898  10,898    10,898   10,898   10,898   10,898   10,898
Other Operating Costs                           2,358   2,358     2,358    2,358    2,358    2,358    2,358
Social Payments                                 6,136   6,136     6,136    6,136    6,136    6,136    6,136
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other             8,272   8,272     8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272    8,272
than profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets                    10,750  10,750    10,750   10,750   10,750   10,750   10,750
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                              583    2,333    5,250
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs                     87,252  87,252    87,252   87,252   87,835   89,585   92,502
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses
Total Operating Expenses                       87,252  87,252    87,252   87,252   87,835   89,585   92,502
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance            76,502  76,502    76,502   76,502   76,502   76,502   76,502
Costs
Profit Tax                                              5,211    10,235   14,843   21,276   25,129   25,129
Debt Service (including fees)                                     3,192    2,583    4,788    7,875   11,025
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                               3,267    9,800   16,333   19,600   16,333
Total:                                         76,502  81,713    93,195  103,728  118,899  129,106  128,989
Capital Expenditures                                             11,667   35,000   58,333   70,000   58,333
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                         0.38    0.38      0.62     0.78     1.04     1.22     1.22
Budget Organizations                             1.45    1.45       1.45     1.56    1.77     1.93     1.93
Industrial                                       8.61    8.61      8.61     8.61     8.61     8.61     8.61
- 80 -



Vodocanal of                              Pechora
Thousands of Rubles
1999      2000   2001   2002   2003    2004    2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(OOCm3) - Water&Wastewater     16,591  16,591  16,591  16,591   16,591   16,591   16,591
Water&WastewaterBilledRevenues              37,461  59,212 76,804  88,515  105,383  113,874  113,874
Subsidies
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                           15,226 32,206 41,774  50,551   63,194  71,700   71,700
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)        41%    54%    54%    57%       60%      63%     63%
Collected Cash                               6,710  7,944  13,994 21,400   32,334  43,020   42,962
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue         44%    25%    34%    42%       51%      60%      60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                    9,923  9,923   9,923   9,923    9,923    9,923    9,923
Energy                                       5,342  5,342   5,342   5,342    5,342    5,342    5,342
Chemicals and Materials'                         I      I       I      I        I        I        I
MinimumAdequateMaintenance                   1,459  1,459   1,459   1,459    1,459    1,459    1,459
Other Operating Costs                        3,280  3,280   3,280   3,280    3,280    3,280    3,280
Social Payments                              3,563  3,563   3,563   3,563    3,563    3,563    3,563
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other than     7,272  7,272   7,272   7,272    7,272    7,272    7,272
profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets                  5,514  5,514  5,514   5,514    5,514    5,514    5,514
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                      486    1,944   4,375
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs                  36,354 36,354  36,354  36,354   36,840  38,298   40,729
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses
Total Operating Expenses                    36,354 36,354  36,354  36,354   36,840   38,298  40,729
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance Costs   30,840 30,840 30,840  30,840  30,840   30,840  30,840
Profit Tax                                           1,366  5,553   9,392   14,754   17,964   17,964
Debt Service (including fees)                               2,660  2,153    3,990    6,563    9,188
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                         2,722   8,167   13,611   16,333   13,611
Total:                                      30,840 32,206 41,774  50,551   63,194   71,700  71,603
Capital Expenditures                                        9,722  29,167   48,611   58,333   48,611
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                      3.81    3.81    4.63    5.34    6.35    6.86     6.86
Budget Organizations                          3.81    3.81    4.63    5.34    6.35    6.86     6.86
Industrial                                    3.82   3.82    4.63    5.34    6.35     6.86    6.86
(1) PVK includes majority of expenses of this category in Other Operating Costs
- 81 -



Vodocanal of                            Petrozavodsk
Thousands of Rubles
1999          2000   2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(OOOm3) - Water&Wastewater  69,013       69,013  69,013  69,013   69,013   69,013   69,013
Water&Wastewater Billed Revenues        78,922        81,363  102,246  119,053  143,205  159,943  159,943
Subsidies
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                       76,763        74,558 93,694   111,248  136,534  153,545  153,545
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)  97%           92%    92%      93%      95%     96%      96%
Collected Cash                          19,405        21,870 34,667  49,691   71,453   92,127   92,127
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue   25%           29%    37%      45%      52%     60%      60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                               19,632        19,632  19,632   19,632   19,632   19,632   19,632
Energy                                  16,728        16,728  16,728   16,728   16,728   16,728   16,728
Chemicals and Materials                 6,962         6,962  6,962    6,962    6,962   6,962    6,962
Minimum Adequate Maintenance            9,436         9,436  9,436    9,436   9,436   9,436   9,436
Other Operating Costs                   4,695         4,695  4,695   4,695    4,695   4,695   4,695
Social Payments                         7,362         7,362  7,362    7,362    7,362    7,362    7,362
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other than    5,214     5,214  5,214    5,214   5,214   5,214   5,214
profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets             10,229         10,229  10,229   10,229   10,229   10,229   10,229
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                       972     3,889   8,750
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs              80,258        80,258 80,258   80,258   81,230   84,147   89,008
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses
Total Operating Expenses                80,258        80,258 80,258   80,258   81,230   84,147  89,008
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance Costs  70,029     70,029 70,029   70,029   70,029   70,029  70,029
Profit Tax                                            4,529   12,901   20,581   31,303   37,725   37,725
Debt Service (including fees)                                 5,320   4,305    7,980    13,125   18,375
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                           5,444    16,333   27,222   32,667  27,222
Total:                                  70,029        74,558  93,694   111,248  136,534  153,545  153,351
Capital Expenditures                                          19,444  58,333   97,222   116,667 97,222
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                0.64          0.64    1.19     1.61    2.08    2.32    2.32
Budget Organizations                    1.41          1.41    1.48     1.73    2.08    2.32     2.32
Industrial                              1.88          1.88    1.88    1.88    2.08     2.32     2.32
- 82 -



Vodocanal of                              Pskov
Thousands of Rubles
1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(OOOm3) -                   48,550 48,550  48,550  48,550  48,550  48,550  48,550
Water&Wastewater
Water&WastewaterBilled Revenues          66,476 98,011  122,541  138,134  160,955  172,161  172,161
Subsidies
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                        45,726 61,171   76,480  90,523  110,752  124,361  124,361
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)     69%    62%      62%     66%      690%o    72%     72%
Collected Cash                           23,521  19,983  30,210  41,942   58,883  74,617   74,617
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue      51%    33%      40%     46%      53%     60%      60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                13,261  13,261   13,261   13,261   13,261   13,261   13,261
Energy                                   17,740  17,740   17,740   17,740   17,740   17,740   17,740
ChemicalsandMaterials                     8,513   8,513    8,513    8,513    8,513    8,513    8,513
Minimum Adequate Maintenance              1,259  1,259    1,259    1,259    1,259    1,259    1,259
OtherOperatingCosts                       7,313   7,313   7,313   7,313    7,313    7,313    7,313
Social Payments                           4,495  4,495   4,495   4,495    4,495    4,495   4,495
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other than  1,659  1,659    1,659    1,659    1,659    1,659    1,659
profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets              10,738  10,738   10,738   10,738   10,738  10,738   10,738
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                     778   3,111    7,000
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs               64,978 64,978  64,978  64,978   65,756  68,089  71,978
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses     2,911   2,911    2,911    2,911    2,911    2,911    2,911
Total Operating Expenses                 67,889 67,889  67,889  67,889  68,667  71,000  74,889
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance      57,151  57,151  57,151  57,151   57,151  57,151  57,151
Costs
Profit Tax                                        4,020   10,718   16,862   25,440  30,577  30,577
Debt Service (including fees)                             4,256    3,444    6,384   10,500   14,700
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                       4,356   13,067   21,778  26,133   21,778
Total:                                   57,151  61,171   76,480  90,523  110,752  124,361  124,206
Capital Expenditures                                     15,556  46,667   77,778  93,333   77,778
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                   1.14   1.78    2.49    2.85      3.32     3.55    3.55
Budget Organizations                       2.69   2.69    2.69    2.85    3.32    3.55    3.55
Industrial                                 2.58   2.58     2.58    2.85     3.32    3.55     3.55
- 83 -



Vodocanal of                            Sochi
Thousands of Rubles
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(OOOm3) -                130,139  130,139 130,139 130,139  130,139  130,139 130,139
Water&Wastewater
Water&Wastewater Billed Revenues      227,816 231,276 282,144 322,134 387,983 432,282 423,505
Subsidies
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                     227,130 217,522 265,364 309,248 372,464 414,991  414,505
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)  100%     94%     94%      96%     96%     96%     98%
Collected Cash                        131,389  152,265  192,389 231,936 288,660 331,993 331,604
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue    58%     70%     73%      75%     78%     80%      80%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                              35,842  35,842  35,842  35,842  35,842  35,842  35,842
Energy                                 59,190  59,190  59,190  59,190  59,190  59,190  59,190
Chemicals and Materials                 7,768   7,768   7,768   7,768   7,768   7,768   7,768
Minimum Adequate Maintenance            2,763   2,763   2,763   2,763   2,763   2,763   2,763
Other Operating Costs                   6,545   6,545   6,545   6,545   6,545   6,545   6,545
Social Payments                        13,778  13,778  13,778  13,778  13,778  13,778  13,778
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other    29,669  29,669  29,669  29,669  29,669  29,669  29,669
than profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets            26,436  26,436  26,436  26,436  26,436  26,436  26,436
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                 2,431   9,722  21,875
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs            181,991  181,991  181,991  181,991  184,422 191,713 203,866
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses  30,498  30,498  30,498  30,498  30,498  30,498  30,498
Total Operating Expenses              212,489 212,489 212,489 212,489 214,920 222,211 234,364
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance   186,053  186,053  186,053  186,053  186,053 186,053  186,053
Costs
Profit Tax                             15,799  31,469  52,400  71,599  98,405  114,459  114,459
Debt Service (including fees)                           13,300  10,763   19,950  32,813  45,938
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                     13,611  40,833  68,056  81,667  68,056
Total:                                201,852 217,522 265,364 309,248 372,464 414,991 414,505
Capital Expenditures                                   48,611  145,833 243,056 291,667 243,056
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                 0.78    0.78    0.78    1.00    1.68    2.14    2.14
Budget Organizations                     1.27    1.78    2.17    2.48    2.98    3.32    3.32
- 84 -



Vodocanal of                              Tobolsk
Thousands of Rubles
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(OOOm3) -                     17,167  17,167  17,167  17,167  17,167  17,167  17,167
Water&Wastewater
Water&WastewaterBilledRevenues             37,345  61,346  72,796  80,392  -41,637  97,495  92,221
Subsidies                                  14,486  12,072   9,657   7,243   4,829   2,414
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                          27,247  51,268  60,836  69,613  82,256  90,761  90.664
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)       73%     70%      74%    79%      85%     91%     98%
Collected Cash                              8,709  18,798  25,855  33,646  44,555  54,457  54,399
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue        32%     37%     43%     48%      54%     60%     60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                   8,794   8,794   8,794   8,794   8,794   8,794   8,794
Energy                                      6,502   6,502   6,502   6,502   6,502   6,502   6,502
Chemicals and Materials                      1,724   1,724   1,724   1,724   1,724   1,724   1,724
Minimum Adequate Maintenance                2,878   2,878   2,878   2,878   2,878   2,878   2,878
Other Operating Costs                      20,039  20,039  20,039  20,039  20,039  20,039  20,039
Social Payments                             3,338   3,338   3,338   3,338   3,338   3,338   3,338
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other than     1,388   1,388   1,388   1,388   1,388   1,388   1,388
profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets                  8,054   8,054   8,054   8,054   8,054   8,054   8,054
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                      486   1,944   4,375
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs                 52,717  52,717  52,717  52,717  53,203  54,661  57,092
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses        2,626   2,626   2,626   2,626   2,626   2,626   2,626
Total Operating Expenses                   55,343  55,343  55,343  55,343  55,829  57,287  59,718
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance Costs  47,289  47,289  47,289  47,289  47,289  47,289  47,289
Profit Tax                                           3,979   8,165  12,005  17,366  20,577  20,577
Debt Service (including fees)                                2,660   2,153   3,990   6,563   9,188
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                          2,722   8,167  13,611  16,333  13,611
Total:                                     47,289  51,268  60,836  69,613  82,256  90,761  90,664
Capital Expenditures                                         9,722  29,167  48,611  58,333  48,611
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                      1.19    1.57    2.53    3.29    4.27    4.86    4.86
Budget Organizations                          8.93    8.93    8.93    8.93    8.93    8.93    8.93
Industrial                                   9.57    9.57    9.57    9.57    9.57    9.57    9.57
- 85 -



Vodocanal of                           Vologda
Thousands of Rubles
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(OOOm3) -                 51,795  51,795   51,795   51,795   51,795  51,795  51,795
Water&Wastewater
Water&Wastewater Billed Revenues        88,223  108,810  118,272  122,957  130,747  134,128  134,128
Subsidies
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                       94,900  88,019   95,674  102,695  112,810  119,614  119,614
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)   108%     81%      81%     84%      86%     89%      93%
Collected Cash                          23,063   24,645   34,443  45,186   58,661   71,768   71,722
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue     24%     28%      36%     44%      52%     60%      60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                               19,477   19,477   19,477  19,477   19,477  19,477  19,477
Energy                                  24,358  24,358   24,358  24,358   24,358  24,358  24,358
Chemicals and Materials                 19,741   19,741   19,741   19,741   19,741   19,741   19,741
Minimum Adequate Maintenance             1,870   1,870    1,870    1,870    1,870   1,870    1,870
Other Operating Costs                   11,021   11,021   11,021   11,021   11,021   11,021   11,021
Social Payments                          7,495   7,495    7,495    7,495    7,495    7,495    7,495
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other      4,042   4,042    4,042   4,042   4,042   4,042   4,042
than profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets             21,977  21,977   21,977  21,977   21,977  21,977  21,977
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets                                             389    1,556   3,500
Aquired under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs             109,981  109,981  109,981  109,981  110,370 111,537  113,481
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses
Total Operating Expenses               109,981  109,981  109,981  109,981  110,370 111,537  113,481
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance     88,004  88,004   88,004  88,004   88,004  88,004   88,004
Costs
Profit Tax                                          15   3,364   6,436   10,725   13,293   13,293
Debt Service (including fees)                             2,128    1,722   3,192   5,250   7,350
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                       2,178    6,533   10,889  13,067   10,889
Total:                                  88,004  88,019  95,674  102,695  112,810  119,614  119,536
Capital Expenditures                                      7,778  23,333   38,889  46,667  38,889
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                  0.59    0.86     1.14    1.33     1.61     1.75    1.75
Budget Organizations                      4.63    4.63     4.63     4.63    4.63    4.63    4.63
Industrial                                4.27    4.27     4.27    4.27    4.27    4.27    4.27
- 86 -



Vodocanal of                              Volkhov
Thousands of Rubles
1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(000m3) -                      9,542   9,542   9,542   9,542   9,542   9,542   9,542
Water&Wastewater
Water&Wastewater Billed Revenues           20,163  18,865  20,868  22,603  25,237  27,009  27,009
Subsidies                                   9,833   8,194   6,555   4,917   3,278   1,639
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                           15,420  18,030  19,944  21,699  24,228  25,929  25,929
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)       76%     67%     73%     79%      85%     91%    96%
Collected Cash                              10,343   7,933   9,573  11,284  13,568  15,557  15,557
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue        67%    44%      48%      52%     56%     60%     60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                    3,254   3,254   3,254   3,254   3,254   3,254   3,254
Energy                                       3,648   3,648   3,648   3,648   3,648   3,648   3,648
Chemicals and Materials                     2,647   2,647   2,647   2,647   2,647   2,647   2,647
Minimum Adequate Maintenance                  642     642     642     642     642      642     642
Other Operating Costs                       4,086   4,086   4,086   4,086   4,086   4,086   4,086
Social Payments                             1,229   1,229   1,229   1,229   1,229   1,229   1,229
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other than     1,895   1,895   1,895   1,895   1,895   1,895   1,895
profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets                  3,339   3,339   3,339   3,339   3,339   3,339   3,339
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired                                       97      389     875
under the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs                 20,740  20,740  20,740  20,740  20,838  21,129  21,615
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses
Total Operating Expenses                   20,740  20,740  20,740  20,740  20,838  21,129  21,615
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance Costs   17,401  17,401  17,401  17,401  17,401  17,401  17,401
Profit Tax                                            629   1,466   2,234   3,307   3,949   3,949
Debt Service (including fees)                                 532    431       798   1,313   1,838
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                           544   1,633   2,722   3,267   2,722
Total:                                      17,401  18,030  19,944  21,699  24,228  25,929  25,910
Capital Expenditures                                         1,944   5,833   9,722  11,667   9,722
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                      1.66    1.66    1.66    1.66    1.69    2.19    2.43
Budget Organizations                          1.74    1.98    2.19    2.37    2.64    2.83    2.83
Industrial                                    2.07    2.07    2.19    2.37    2.64    2.83    2.83
- 87 -



Vodocanal of                                Votkinsk
Thousands of Rubles
1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
(actual)
Income Statement Items
Volume Billed(000m3) - Water&Wastewater       18,293  18,293  18,293  18,293  18,293  18,293  18,293
Water&Wastewater Billed Revenues              15,288  19,451  22,531  24,691  28,557  31,104  31,104
Subsidies                                      6,582  5,485   4,388  3,291   2,194   1,097
Non-Tariff Sources of Revenue
Revenue Collection
Collected Revenue                             14,619  18,130 21,001  23,634 27,427 29,978  29,978
Collection Ratio (% of Revenue Billed)          97%    73%    78%    84%    89%    93%    96%
Collected Cash                                 4,913  6,769   9,030  11,502  14,902  17,987  17,987
Minimum Cash Collection (% of Revenue           34%    37%    43%    49%    54%    60%    60%
Collected)
Costs (profit tax deductible)
Personnel                                      3,918  3,918   3,918  3,918   3,918   3,918   3,918
Energy                                         4,009  4,009  4,009  4,009  4,009   4,009  4,009
Chemicals and Materials                        2,290  2,290  2,290  2,290  2,290   2,290  2,290
Minimum Adequate Maintenance                   4,284  4,284   4,284  4,284  4,284  4,284  4,284
OtherOperatingCosts                            1,126   1,126   1,126  1,126   1,126   1,126   1,126
Social Payments                                1,491   1,491   1,491   1,491   1,491   1,491   1,491
Taxes and Mandatory Payments (other than         931    931    931    931    931    931    931
profit tax)
Depreciation of 1999 Assets                    4,382  4,382   4,382  4,382  4,382   4,382  4,382
Depreciation of Post 1999 Assets Aquired under                                 146    583   1,313
the Project
Total Tax-Deductible Costs                    22,431  22,431  22,431  22,431  22,577 23,014  23,744
Non-Tax Deductible Operating Expenses
Total Operating Expenses                      22,431  22,431  22,431  22,431  22,577  23,014  23,744
Condition on Total Minimum Collected
Revenue
Operations and Adequate Maintenance Costs     18,049  18,049  18,049  18,049  18,049  18,049  18,049
Profit Tax                                               81   1,337  2,489  4,097   5,060  5,060
Debt Service (including fees)                                   798    646   1,197   1,969  2,756
Project Cofinancing Including Taxes                             817  2,450  4,083   4,900  4,083
Total:                                        18,049  18,130 21,001  23,634 27,427 29,978  29,949
Capital Expenditures                                          2,917  8,750  14,583  17,500  14,583
Projected Tariffs (R/m3)
Domestic                                        0.64   0.64    0.73   0.95    1.26    1.49   1.51
Budget Organizations                            1.94   1.94    1.94   1.94    1.94    1.94   1.94
Industrial                                      2.18   2.18    2.18   2.18    2.18    2.18   2.18
- 88 -



Annex 5A: Project Financial Management Assessment
Part A: National Foundation for Housing Reform
General
1.    The National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR) is an autonomous, non-commercial
organization founded by OAO Institute of Founding and Communal Utilities Sector, ZAO Research and
Development Center " ZHilish'e", and ZAO Center for Assistance to Founding Reform. In accordance
with its Charter, NFHR's primary objectives are to develop the organizational infrastructure for enabling
housing reform in the Russian Federation and its territories; to promote reforms in the housing and
communal complex; and to promote sustainable development of populated areas in the Russian Federation.
The NFHR is the implementing agency for the Housing Project financed by the Bank, and for two Japan
PHRD grants applied to the preparation of the Bank-supported Municipal Water and Wastewater and
District Heating Projects. It is proposed that the NFHR will act as the implementation agent on behalf of
the Russian Federation for the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project as well.
Governance Structure
2.    NFHR's Council is its supreme goveming body. The primary function of the Council is to
ensure NFHR's compliance in meeting the aims and objectives for which NFHR was established. The
Council is headed by Chairman of the State Committee for Construction and Housing and Communal
Complex.
3.    The Council's main responsibilities are the following:
*     Amending the Charter of the Foundation
*     Decisions on NFHR's reorganization and declaration of its liquidation, if required
*     Approving NFHR's annual budget, including sources of financing
*     Approving selection and appointment of the auditors
:     Appointing and dismissing the NFHR Director
4.    The Council is NFHR's main decision-making body which meets on a regular basis (required at
least once a year). To improve NFHR's governance structure, it was agreed during the Financial
Management Assessment (FMA) carried out by the Bank Financial Management Specialist (FMS) that
the composition of the Council would be changed to increase the number of representatives from the
key Government ministries and agencies involved, and to reduce the number of members drawn from
the Foundation's staff. The new composition of the Council was submitted to the Bank for review in
March 2000 and was approved by the Bank.
5.    As required under the applicable Russian laws, a Board of Trustees has been established for
NFHR. However, according to information provided by the Central Project Implementation Unit
(CPIU) within NFHR, this body appears to be nominal only, without any operational functions.
Moreover, the members of the Board currently represent only Government ministries and bodies (e.g.
the Ministries of Finance and State Property, Gosstroy, and others).
6.      Science and Technology Councils (STCs) have been set up within the NFHR framework for
individual projects. The STCs are established for the purpose of defining the scientific and
- 89 -



technological strategy to be followed in preparation and implementation of projects assigned to NFHR,
carried out by the Government of the Russian Federation, state and municipal bodies, and international
and other organizations. The STC rules and procedures are defuned by the NFHR Council.
7.    The Director of the NFHR has overall responsibility for the day-to-day administration and
supervision of NFHR's activities. The Director is elected and dismissed by the Council. The Director is
accountable for his/her work to the Council, Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Council. The
main functions of the Director are:
*     Ensuring achievement of the aimns and objectives as specified in the NFHR Charter;
*     Managing the administrative apparatus of the Foundation, hiring and terminating staff,
developing job descriptions and instructions, issuing directives and orders pertaining to the
work of all NFHR staff;
*     Concluding agreements, signing financial and other documents of NFHR, issuing powers of
attorney, and opening accounts at banks and other credit institutions.
Regulations and Procedures
8.    NFHR's activities are regulated by national laws and regulations. For implementation of the
Housing Project, Guidelines for disbursement, accounting and auditing procedures have been adopted
by the Foundation. These Guidelines were developed for the use of the NFHR and the General
Consultant for the Housing Project. For the proposed Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
(MWWP), an Operational Manual is being prepared by NFHR (see para.22). In order to reflect the
multi-project nature of the NFHR's activities, an operational manual for NFHR's financial department
needs to be prepared satisfactory to the Bank by Board presentation.
Organizational Structure and Staffing
9.    All main operational activities of the NFHR in the implementation of the Housing Project are
supported by the General Consultant and relevant staff of the Foundation; the team includes a Director,
chief accountant, office manager, economist, engineer, translator and driver. The Municipal District
Heating Project team consists of the following staff: a Director, procurement specialist, project
assistant and part-time accountant. The proposed MWWP has the following staff: a Director, financial
analyst, office manager, engineer-procurement specialist and part-time accountant.
10.   To implement the MWWP, NFHR will need to hire additional personnel. The Bank FMS
recommends that NFHR's Accounting Department be responsible for maintaining both entity (NFHR)
and project accounting records, and that sufficient staff resources be allocated in the Department for
this purpose. Additionally, it may be advisable to adopt a cost-sharing approach in regard to financing
the salaries of the accounting staff concerned since the Department provides services to more than one
project. For example, since the Chief Accountant will need to work on implementation of all projects,
his salary could be jointly financed under the projects.
Accounting Systems and Reporting requirements
11.   Under the current financial management arrangements, the entity (NFHR) accounting and
reporting in accordance with Russian legislation is handled by the Accounting Departrnent, and project
-90 -



accounting and disbursement are handled by the General Consultant. In accordance with the Bank's
requirements for new projects, accounting and disbursement should be integrated into one financial
management system. Furthermore, NFHR should have the internal capacity to maintain accounting and
financial reporting systems adequate for providing the Bank with accurate and timely information
regarding projects resources, expenditures and the financial position of the NFHR.
12.   Entity (NFHR) accounting in accordance with applicable Russian legislation is performed
utilizing the Inotech accounting software package. Project accounting is carried out using the Platinum
software by the General Consultant. At present, there is a lack of interface between the project and
entity financial statements. This also can be addressed by integration of the two systems to strengthen
the internal control system and eliminate the duplication of duties. Methodology for integration of
Russian accounting, project accounting and IAS accounting must be developed by qualified
consultants, and the software upgraded to include three separate Charts of Accounts with appropriate
links. The precise details and extent of the integration will be reviewed as part of the proposed
consultancy contract to be signed between NFHR and consultants to be engaged by it to provide the
necessary technical assistance.
Internal Control procedures
13.   The main internal control procedures are defined in applicable Russian legislation. NFHR
prepared Operating Manual Volume I for its core operations (financial management, procurement,
administration etc.) which describes all necessary procedures of internal control related to Foundation's
functions. The Operational Manual for the MWWP Volume 3 is addressing specifically the procedures
to be used by NHFR and the Participating Vodokanals (PVs) for the implementation of the MWWP.
The Operating Manual for NFHR financial department describes all internal controls applicable to 3
projects implemented by NFHR.
Budgeting and Planning
14.   For timely project monitoring and control, NFHR's financial management system should
provide for proper budgeting and planning functions. NFHR's annual budget is prepared by its
management for approval by the Council. This budget includes all operating expenditures financed
from all NFHR sources of financing (at present one loan and two grants). It is proposed that the
MWWP will finance 100% of the incremental operating costs of the CPIU in the amount of
approximately US$4 million. This amount should be properly budgeted through all five years of
project implementation and reflected as a part of the overall NFHR budget.
Audit
15.   In accordance with the Loan Agreement for the Housing Project, annual audited project
financial statements were submitted to the Bank without delays during the four years of the project's
implementation. Auditors have not to date raised any accountability issues regarding NFHR's
operations.
16.   Starting from the audit of its 1999 financial statements, the audit of NFHR's entity financial
statements is to be prepared in accordance with IAS, as required by the Bank. NFHR's financial
statements should reflect all its operational expenditures, allocated to the projects in accordance with
the budget approved by the Bank. NFHR does not at present have the internal capacity to restate its
financial statements (balance sheet, income statement and cash flow statement) prepared under Russian
-91 -



regulations into IAS-compliant reports, so this task will need to be performed by the auditors. As soon
as the integration of NFHR's financial management system is finalized, entity financial statements
should be prepared internally in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) within
financial department of NFHR.
Part B: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project (MWWP)
General
17.   The Bank loan in amount of US$122.5 million will be provided to the Russian Federation to
finance the MWWP. The objective of the project is to arrest the decline of water and wastewater
services in fifteen medium-size cities located in different regions of Russia. More specifically the
project aims to improve the financial position of the concerned water and wastewater enterprises
(Participating Vodokanals or PVs) by the progressive introduction of full-cost covering tariffs and strict
enforcement of collections from all consumers. The project will also provide support on development
and implementation of a new commercial system in vodokanals, introduction of full-cost recovering
tariffs, and for other efficiency improvements.
Governance Structure
18.    Overall management and supervision of the MWWP  will be the responsibility of the State
Committee for Housing and Construction Policy and Communal Complex (Gosstroy). Day-to-day
implementation and administration of the project will be executed on behalf of Gosstroi by NFHR.
Within NFHR, the Council will be responsible for overseeing implementation of MWWP.   For
onlending the proceeds of the Bank loan, the Ministry of Finance will sign Subsidiary Loan and
Guarantee Agreements with 15 cities and PVs. Each PV's sub-project will be governed by a Subsidiary
Loan and Guarantee Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with MOF, Gosstroi, NFHR, the PVs, Oblast
and municipal governments as signatories. The PVs will be the borrowing entities. Oblast and
municipal governments concerned will provide loan guarantees to the MOF.
19.    To provide quality control over the MWWP's implementation, it would be useful if a Scientific
and Technical Council is established for the MWWP as for other projects.
Organizational Structure of Sub-Projects and Staffing
20.    During sub-project implementation, each PV will maintain a Local Project Implementation Unit
(LPIU), under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to lead and supervise the implementation of
its particular sub-project and to provide the primary liaison point for the CPIU in the NFHR. LPIU
incremental operating costs will be financed from the PVs' own revenues and not from sub-loan funds.
To comply with financial management requirements, each LPIU should have adequate staff to function
properly.
21.    The CPIU will be staffed with a core group of specialists, including a Director, two
engineer/procurements specialists, two water and wastewater management specialists, and a financial
analyst.   The CPIU will need to hire an experienced accountant to be responsible for project
accounting and PV reporting. A junior accountant may be required for additional support. Preferably
the project accountant should have good knowledge of IAS and work closely with the financial analyst
in the CPIU.
- 92 -



Regulations and Procedures (Operational Manual)
22.   The Operational Manual was prepared for the project which defined the respective roles and
responsibilities of the NFHR and LPIUs in the implementation of the MWWP. The Bank's Financial
Management Assessment will serve as a basis for addressing financial management issues of the
project. However, the project Operating Manual does not properly reflect the operations of common
department of NFHR such as financial department. It was agreed that procedures for the financial
department reflecting the multi-project nature of functions will be further defined in NFHR's
operational manual of financial department.
Project Accounting and Project Management Reports (PMRs)
23.   With the NFHR's assistance, LPIUs will be required to build the capacity required to maintain
records on related project expenditures and counterpart funds to enable the Bank, auditor, and NFHR
to verify project expenditures and financing. Through negotiations, NFHR agreed with the PVs'
managements on the reporting and local accounting requirements. LPIUs should provide the CPIU with
quarterly reports which will be the basis for the preparation of the Project Management Reports
(PMRs) which are to be submitted quarterly by the CPIU to the Bank. The LPIUs will need to record
all expenditures incurred for the purposes of sub-projects, including local counterpart funds, and taxes
and levies for inclusion into the project financial statements.
24.   NFHR prepared and submitted to the Bank draft PMRs prior negotiations. The NFHR is
required to produce PMRs starting from the first quarter after the Bank loan effectiveness. NFHR will
install computerized integrated accounting software to enable the CPIU to automatically prepare
PMRs. The installation should be completed no later than 6 months after project effectiveness.
26.   Assets financed under the Project and transferred to the PVs will need to be attested by a
signed document acknowledging receipt and acceptance of the assets, with the appropriate accounting
for them on the PVs' balance sheets. Fixed Asset Registers will be maintained by the NFHR and the
PVs showing appropriate details in regard to each asset (e.g. identification, number, cost, exact
location, etc.). This information will be based on the supporting documentation provided by the PVs
upon receipt of the equipment. The list of supporting documents required for attestation and recording
of fixed assets financed under the sub-projects should be agreed between the NFHR and the PVs by
negotiations.
Disbursement Arrangements
27.   The NFHR will be responsible for ensuring compliance with the Bank's disbursement
procedures. The NFHR will open Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The
NFHR will initiate payments from the Special Account which will be opened in Moscow and from the
Loan account, either on behalf of itself or the PVs. The PVs will submit requests for payments, duly
authorized and supported by relevant documents to the CPIU. Guidelines for disbursement procedures
will be provided in the Operational Manual that is being prepared.
28.   In accordance with terms and conditions of its sub-loan agreement, each PV will open a Local
Project Account and deposit an amount not less than projected three months' expenditures from the
local counterpart funds. This Local Project Account should be regularly replenished from the PV's own
sources to ensure timely availability of local counterpart funds for all project expenditures (including
- 93 -



taxes and duties) to be financed from them.
29.    The NFHR will maintain an appropriate filing system where all supporting documentation
from the PVs will be retained, and thus enable the Bank and the auditors to verify project expenditures.
Audit of the Project Financial Statements
30    In accordance with the Bank's requirements, project financial statements should be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Additionally, since NFHR is implementing
other projects financed by the Bank and other donors, NFHR's entity financial statements must
prepared in accordance with IAS, and also be audited annually. The following financial statements
should be regularly prepared by NFHR.
NFHR Entity Financial Statements
1. Foundation's Balance Sheet
2. Foundation's Income Statement
3. Foundation's Cash Flow statement
Project Financial Statements
(Project Management Reports. Financial reports to be submitted to the Bank quarterly and audited
annually)
4. Project Sources and Uses of Funds
5. Uses of Funds by Project Activity
6. Project Balance Sheet (not required for the cash model)
7. Project Cash Withdrawals
8. Special Account Statement
9. SOE Withdrawal Schedule
31.   The NFHR has an auditor appointed for audit of the Foundation and Housing project. It was
agreed that Terms of Reference for the auditor will be amended to include the audit of the new project
(separate opinions are required on project financial statements, SOE and Special Account).
32.   Although the PVs will provide the CPIU with all supporting documentation (including
information on local counterpart funds) and will submit financial reports quarterly, the project auditors
will be required, as part of the audit, to visit several PVs and to express an opinion on the project
financial statements. Adequate funds should be allocated in the project financing to enable this work to
be carried out satisfactorily.
Participating Vodokanals' Auditing Requirements
33.    A key objective of the MWWP is to help bring about substantial improvement in the financial
situation of the PVs. The progressive introduction of full-cost recovering tariffs and strict enforcement
of collections from all consumers are key steps in reaching this objective. Reliable financial statements
are required for the PVs both for intemal management and extemal reporting purposes.
34.   Currently, the PVs do not have the capacity to prepare financial statements in accordance with
IAS. Therefore, a special program is envisaged under the project for strengthening the financial
management capacity of the PVs and enabling their transitioning to lAS-based accounting. The Bank's
- 94 -



FMS has agreed with the project entities that, for the first two years of the project's implementation, the
15 PVs will have their annual financial statements prepared in accordance with RAS, and audited by
local auditors. In an effort to provide training and to help prepare accounting information that can be
used for management purposes, consultants acceptable to the Bank, with competence in both IAS and
International Standards on Auditing (ISA) will be retained to help prepare IAS-format statements from
the RAS accounts. This work is part of the overall Action Plan for strengthening the financial
management capacity of the PVs to be carried out under the MSOIP. The details and scope of this
work should be agreed within 18 months from the Bank loan effectiveness. Funds for technical
assistance and training, as well as for required new computer hardware and software, will be allocated
in each of the sub-loans. Starting from the third year of project implementation, the PVs should be able
to prepare financial statements in accordance with IAS, and correspondingly, to have the audits
conducted in accordance with ISA.
CONCLUSION
The Bank FMS has discussed and substantially agreed with the project entities the attached Action Plan
for strengthening the financial management capacity of the project entities.  Subject to satisfactory
implementation of the Action Plan, the project is certified by the Bank FMS as meeting the minimum
financial management requirements of the Bank.
Action Plan for Strengthening Financial Management Capacity of NFHR and the Participating
Vodokanals
Action                                       Completed by/         Responsible Party
Status
Change the composition of the NFHR Council to  Negotiations /      NFHR
have at least 2/3 of its members as representatives   completed
of the key Government ministries and agencies
involved in enabling NFHR to carry out its
mandate
Project Management Reporting (PMR) formats to    Negotiations /    NFHR and the Bank
be agreed with the Bank                      completed
NFHIR and the Participating Vodokanals to agree    Negotiations /  NFHR and the Participating
on subproject accounting and reporting formats  completed          Vodokanals
required by the NFHR for submission of PMRs to
the Bank
NFHR and the Participating Vodokanals to agree    Negotiations /   NFHR and the Participating
on modes and formats for maintaining Fixed Asset   completed       Vodokanals
Registers and supporting evidential documents
NFHR to prepare a plan for training of       Board Presentation/    NFHR
Participating Vodokanals staff in project financial   completed
management
Approval of Operational Manual, satisfactory to  Board Presentation/    NFHR
the Bank, by NFHR's Council (both project and  completed
entity)
- 95 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods (including incidental services) and works under the Bank-financed components will
be in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits; January 1995, most recently revised in January 1999. Procurement of consulting services would
follow the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers;
January 1997, most recently revised in January 1999. The main project components, their estimated costs,
Bank financing and main procurement methods are summarized in Table A. The consultants selection
arrangements are further detailed in Table Al. Prior review thresholds, the Bank's review process and
information about the procurement capacity of the implementing agency are presented in Tables B and B 1.
Overall procurement arrangements indicating packaging and estimated amounts for major procurement
actions in respect of main Project components are presented in Table B2. For the Immediate Investment
Program (comprising Part A of the Project), a detailed procurement plan is presented in Table B3.
The project is designed to arrest the decline in water and wastewater services in fifteen medium-sized cities
located in all parts of Russia. To this end, an immediate investment program (IIP) has been identified
representing goods and works procurement for a total amount of USD 73.8 million. There is a further
investment program (MSIOP) representing goods and works contracts estimated at USD 67.4 million
designed to achieve institutional strengthening, and operational improvements, thereby assuring improved
management, financial and operating capability among the fifteen cities. The MSIOP is also supported by
USD 7.9 million in technical assistance and training for the implementation of the program. In addition,
several consultants contracts estimated at USD 12.4 million will be procured to provide (i) technical
assistance and training (ii) to help prepare final designs and bidding documents (iii) to assist in supervising
construction and (iv) to provide general management and procurement assistance. A procurement plan has
been prepared for the investments identified under the IIP and for major consultants contract but not yet for
the MSIOP. The detailed Project description as well as additional information on procurement
arrangements are presented in Annex 2. Bank financing in the amount of USD 122.5 million is envisaged.
The implementing agency, the National Foundation for Housing Reform [NFHR] is already involved in the
implementation of the Housing Project (initial loan amount USD 400 million (USD 30 million subsequently
canceled) of which nearly USD 167 million were disbursed as of November 1, 2000). NFHR is considered
for assuming implementation responsibility for two new projects; (i) the Municipal Heating Project and (ii)
the Municipal Water and Wastewater Project (MWWP); the latter covered by this assessment.
The NFHR will appoint a core staff for the management of the Project, including procurement. Since the
main beneficiaries of the loan are all located in the regions, it is important to recognize that the NFHR will
be responsible for supporting the water utilities in preparing bidding documents for the Bank's prior review
and assuring compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and the provisions of the Loan Agreement
on procurement. The utilities have been and will continue to be supported by mostly grant funded
intemational consultants. During the preparation of the technical specifications, designs and drawings as
well as bidding documents, the water utilities have to some extent been exposed to intemational technical
standards and bidding practices but the utilities will not be allowed to carry out any procurement
independently; the NFHR will be responsible for preparation and the conduct of all ICB bidding while the
utilities will assume responsibility for the definition and quantification of their requirements and the
suitable specification of the same as guided by their respective consultants. They will be involved in
- 96 -



evaluation of proposals and bids to ensure ownership of their respective sub-projects.
The NFHR has a conventional set-up with (i) NFHR Director, (ii) Technical Section, (iii) Procurement
Section and (iv) Financial/Accounting Section; in all max. 16 staff. There will be two procurement
specialists in the regular NFHR staffing (funded by the Bank loan). The NFHR and its Procurement
Section will be assisted and supported by qualified procurement advisors during a major part of the
implementation period. Main objectives of the procurement advisors' assignment will be (i) the training of
the NFHR procurement staff and (ii) the development of NFHR procurement capacity in all aspects of
goods, works and consultants procurement to assure continued functioning after the termination of the
consultants assignment.
About 31 contracts comprising goods and works procurement under ICB (exception: one small ISH
contract) add up to about USD 74 million under the IIP program. Several QCBS contracts in support of the
IIP as well as the MSOIP have also been identified so far, all involving large contracts with selection under
international competition in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. The procurement plan will be further
developed at a later stage to incorporate continued detailed planning for the MSOIP component.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ 000 equivalent)
Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method                     Total Cost
_  ICB    NCB         Other    N.B.F     (Incl. price and physical
Works  _                              contingencies,)
wLorks                                          I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. Civil Works IIP                      5,932      4,317                                  10,249
(3,632)    (2,643)                                (6,275)
2.2  Civil Works MSOIP                  8,078      3,698                                  11,775
= .=_    (4,946) _(2,264)                         (7,210)
Goods Suooly
1. Equipment and Materials TIP          5,319                                             5.319
| =.  (4,255)                                    (4,255)
2.2  Equipment and Materials MSOIP      3,190                   800                       3,990
(2,552)                (640)                      (3,192)
Goods Suo)1v and Installation 
1. S&IlIP                                        _  58,197                               58,197
(42,461)                                          (42,461)
2.2. S&l MSOIP                          51,624                            .               51,624
(37,665)                                          (37,665)
Consultant Se.vices
2.1 Technical Assistance and Training                          7,875                      7,875
(6,300)                    (6,300)
3.1 Final Designs and Bidding Documents        _               8,663                      8,663
(6,930)                    (6,930)
3.2 Supervision of Construction                                3,734                      3,734
(2,987)                    (2,987)
3.3 General Procurement Assistance                                      1.250              1,250
3.4. Central Project Implementation Unit       _               5,000     .                5,000
(included audit)                                              (4000)                      (4,000)
Total                                  133 ,1 39    8,015     25,271    1,250             167,149
(96,151)    (4,907)    (20,217)                  (121,275)
- 97 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms          20.27      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.25     21.52
(16.22)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (16.22)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
Total  20.27     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.25     21.52
_  (16.22)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (16.22)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 98 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review '
E            c~~~~cnr~teu                                                                                     Cotrc')I4c t  .
1. Works                                             >2,000                                     ICB                                      Yes
<2,000; aggr. 8,600                                NCB                                       Yes
2. Goods                                              >100                                      ICB                                      Yes
Supply                                        <100; aggr. 600                                   ISH                             First 2 contracts
<50; aggr. 200                                 NSH                               First 2 contracts
Supply &t Install                                       >0                                      ICB                                      Yes
3. Services                                           <100                                    QCBS                                       Yes
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                                161.5 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Table Bi: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirements
5.n iefstateneent2 .  P he eary lityfe of ecteigme    tan.
th preparationaof bidding docuj ents andaspecifications,caluation of bindiawarding cmacts  . r apProvaloftehe    fRVodokanals have engagedf(or wil
engage in near figure) consultants (local and foreign) foT the preparti4on of requiTed documentation. The NFHR will provide assistance especially in adoption of
the requirekents ofpie World Bank. Tie NFHR will have two locally bired Sr. Procuement Specialists. A qualified Procurement Advisor will be hired before
Effective1rss to assist the NFHR and to esure compliancc with the Bank proct.ement rules. Capacity assessinent ofthe NFHR has been carried out and the
15.m B ndations ofthn action plan have been incorpngSted in the project scope. Capacity assessment aepo mp has been attached as Table B4. The Tisk rating is
6. Country Pronuremnent     _lan  wil be updatednnually.  P                     rocurement_infomatio will be re cordetbyn
Assessment Rr pol n    is     About 70 p     ofrths first year bidditng dl cuments were completed by nefotiathonsi The rest will bc completed by the Board presentation.
plannedvto beicompleted Consultants have beentenaged and aretworkin   thi e  fielddThe consuttants wiD prepare the procure mentdocumentsforMSOIPduing
6in January 2001.     the early stage ofh  proectwmplementation.
S. Estimated date of Project  9. Date of General Procuremcnt 10. Indicate ifthere is    I11. Domestic Preference for    12. Domestic PTeference for
Launch Workshop: 03/15/2001   Notice publication: 03/16v2000   pTocureinent subject to   GoDds: Yes                    workts, if applicable: No
mandatory SPN in Development
Business: Yes
13. Retrowtive financing: No    14. Advaneed Procurement: No
15. Brief description of the Procurement Monitoring Systerm and Infomation Systemn: NFHR will maintain oomplete procurenwnt files, which wiU be reviewed by tbe
Bank's supervision missions. The Procurernent Plan will be updated annually, Procurernent information will b-e rerorded by NFHR and submitted to the Bank as part of the
quarterly and annual progress reports. This infomnation wilt include: revised cost estimnates for the different corntracts, revised timing of procwemeniw actions, irncluding
advertisirig bidding, contract awvard, status of contracts, and completion time for individual contracs; and compliance on specific methods of pxrocirment,
116. NamecofProcwrmentStaffMemberontheProjectTeamn: KarlSkansing,SrProcSpecialist                  |Division: ECC1          |EXt. 562-2073l
17. Briefdescription ofthe role expected ofthe FieldOffice in Procurement: The Field Office will provide procurement services duing the project implementation.
99 -



Table B2: Procelrement arrangements for main Project components.
Component                Type    Contract No. or Est. #  Estimated    Procurement  Invitation to Bid Submission of   Contract  Contract
of Contracts       Cost       Methods                          Bids        Signing     Completion
_ _ _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _     ____                            USSOQOO   _  _  _ _  _
Civil Works
1.  Civil Works IIP              Works       6 Contracts             10,249 ICB/NCB         See details in
______                      __________   ~~~~~~~~Table-B3   _  _  _  _     _  _ _  _   _  _  _ _
2.2 Civil Works MSOIP            Works    TSeveral                   11,725 ICB/NCB         Table_B3
Goods
I.  Equipment and Materials IIP    Goods    4 Contracts               5,319 ICBIISH         See details in
Table B3
2 2  Equipment and Materials     Goods       Several                  3,990 ICB/ISH
MSOIP
Supply and Installation_
1.   Goods and Installation IIP  Goods      12 Contracts             58.197 ICB             See details in
_________          ~~Table B3
12 2  Goods and Installation MSOIP  Goods   Several                  51,624 ICB
C'onsultant Servies                        I
2.1   Technical Assistance and                                      (7,875)
Training 
Corporate Govemance and Strategic   Cons serv  One                    2,625 QCBS            Dcc  00         Mar. '00     May '00       Sept, '04
Planning/Accounting Systems
Management Development           Cons serv    ne                      2,625 QCBS            Dec.'00         Mar. '00     May '00       Oct '04
System Rehabilitation            Cons serv  One                       2,625 QCBS            Dec. '00        Mar. '00     May '00       Oct. '04
3.1  Final Designs and Bidditig   Cons ser   Several                  8,663 QCBS            June'01         July'01      Nov.'01       June'03
Documents
3.2  Supervision of Construction  Cons serv  Several                  3,734 QCBS            June'01         Aug. '01     Dec.'0l       Dec. '05
3.3  General Procurement         Cons serv  { Several                 1,250 NBF             Dec.'00         Mar.'01      May'01        May'04
Assistance
Project Management and
Implementation Support__
3.4  NFHRIProject Implementation  Services   In accordance with       5,000  In accordance
Unit                                        agreed plan                     with agreed plan
IIP = Immediate Investment Program (=Part A); for more details see Table B3: Procurement Plan for Immediate Investment Program. MSOIP = Management
Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program (= Part B). ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding; ISH = Intemational Shopping; NSH = National Shopping;
QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection; IC = Individual Consultants. NBF = Not Bank-financed
I In accordance with annual budget and schedule satisfactory to the Bank. lncludes audit services to be procured under LCS procedure identified in the Loan Agreements.
However, the TOR for these services may be combined with audits to be performed under other projects and costs shared among the loans based on extent of services
included in each.
Table B3: Procurement Plan for Part A: Immediate Investment Program
_Total     Procurement    Issuance of  Submission of  Signing of  Completion of             | (US$000)
Cost (USS      Method        Invitation to     Bids        Contract      Package
_ ________________________ _        000)                           Bid                                                          I
Packages                                                                                                    Supply/    Goods    Works
__________    ___________   __________    ___________    Install
I| _    Astrakhan Central Vodokanal 
WW  Rehabilitation of Gravity Collector   740           NCB            Jan. '00      Mar, '01       Jul.'01      12t. '02    _                       740
Subtetal    740
2        heboksary Vodokanal 
WS  Supply of Equipment for Water         3,146          ICB           Jan. '00      Mar, '00       Jul.'01      Nov. '02                 3,146
, Intake (PSI and PS2)                                                               _
| WS I Supply of Pumps and Related         341            ICB           Jan. '00      Mar. '01      Jun. '01      Aug.'02                  341
Equipment                                     __ ___
| WS |SupplyofFlowMeters                  1,056           ICB           Jan. '00      Mar.'01       Jun.'01       Aug.'02              |   1,056
Subtotal   4,543
3       Gararin Vodokanal                             __                                               ..
W |WS  Supply ofLaboratory Equipment for      37             1s            Jan.'00       Mar.'o0       Mar.'01       April'02                  37
Water Treatment Plant                                                       _____
WS  Rehabilitation ofDistribution Pumps   251            ICB           Jan, '00      Feb. '01      Jun. '01      Jun. '02       251   |                  . _
Subtotal    288
4       t(ansk Vodokanal                              _                _                                                  .
WS  Rehabilitation ofWater Treatment      1,350          JCB           Jan.'00       Mar.'01      Apr.'01       Nov.'02       1,350
Plant                                        _                 _             _                           _                                            I
WW  Reconstruction ofSewage               6,138          ICB           Jan.'00       Mar.'01        Jul.'01      Mar.'03       6,138
Interceptors and Pumping Stations             _                _             _ _.
Subtotal   7 488   1                1                            I                                     I                    I
- 100-



5      Nakhodka Vodkanal                                                                                                     
WS  Rehabilitation rnd Extension of      3,050          ICB            Jan. '00     Mar. '01      Sept. '01     May '03      3,050
Water PumpDing Station                                                                     ________                                           __
WS  Installation of Water Meters          527           NCB            Jan. '00     Mar.01       Aug.'01       Au'02                               527
Subtotal   3.577                .                                 _ _        _                 _   _            _
6  _    rvol Vodokau_!
WS  Extension of Krornskoi Wellfield     1,367          ICB           Jan. '00      Mar.'01       Jun. '01      Jun.'03      1,367    ..
WS  Replacement of Transmission Main     1,022          NCB           Jan. '00      Mar. '01      Jun.'01       Oct. '02                           1.022
and Oka River Crossings                                  ._._._                                           ._ .  _
Subtotal   2389
7    _  Peehora Vodokanal                                                                                        __..          _
WS Rehabilitation of Water Treatment     4,172          ICB           Apr. '01      Mar, '01      Dec.'02       Sept.'03     4,172
Plant         .____                                                                                                              .
WS  Construction of Transmission Main     665          NCB            Jan.' 00      Mar. '01      May'01        May '02     .                       665
Subtotal   4 836
S a     Petrezavodsk Vodokanal                                                            _    .                                              .._  .
WS  Rehabilitation of Water Treatment    8,624          ICB            Jul. '02     Sept. '02     Mar. '03      Oct. '05     8,624
Plant
_  Wv  Rehabilitation of Wastewater          3,469          ICB            Jan. '00     Mar. '01      Aug.'01       Dec. '03      3,469
Treatment Plant Aeration
Subtotal   12,093                                             .
9       Pskov Vodokanal __                                                                         __        _           _      _       ._._
'AS  Rehabilitation of Water Treatment   5,932          ICB           Jan.'00       Mar. '01      Jul. '01      April'03                           5,932
Plant
_Subtotal   5.932                                        .                                       _
1 0      Sohi Vudokanal                                                                         _  __        _       _
V W  Rehabilitation and Capacity         27,020         ICB            Apr. '02      Jul. '02     Sept. '02     Dec. '04     27,020
Enhancement of Bzugu Wastewater
Treatment Plant
Subtotal   27_020
_   _   Tobolsk VodokiWaa
WS  Supply of Equipment for Pipe Repair   590           ICB           Jan. '00      Mar.'01       May'01         Jul. '02                590
Works
Subtotal    590
12  _   Volkhov Vodokanal
WS  Constrwtion of a Booster Station and  663          NCB            Jan. '00      Mar. '01      Jul. '01      Oct. '02                            663
Transmission Main
WS Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations     206           ICB           Jan. '00      Mar. '01       Jul. '01     Oct. '02      206
WS Rehabilitation of Water Treatment      372     I      CB           Jan. 00       Mar.. 01       Jul. 01      Oct.'02       372
Plant
Subtotal   1241
13  _ Voloeca Vodokanal
_   WS Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations    745           ]CB            Jan. '00      Mar. '01      Jul. '01      Feb.'03       745
WS  Installation of Water Meters          700          NCB            Jan. '00      Mar. '00      Jun. '01      Jul. '02                            700
Subtotal   1 445                                            _
14  =   Votkinsk Vodokanal                                                                                                                              =
WS Rehabilitation of Water Treatment      692           ICB           Jan. '00      Mar.'01        Jul. '01     Feb. '03      692
__       Plant                                                    .                                    ...
WS  Rehabilitation of PuwpingStations     741           ICB           Jan,'00       Mar.'01        Jul.'01      Feb. '03      741
_   _   --               ~~~Subtotal    1582  ________                         ______    _____
Total UP (Inclading Taxes, Duties,    73.765                                                            Subtotals       58.197     5.319      10,249
P price and Physical Contingencies)                _     . . .                               ..                        ___
Nte,: Cont-cta abece S 5,000,000 are rubjeet to ple-q.alifi.atie.
WS = Water Supply; WW = Wastewater
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 101 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
, Penitu,   Category         Amount i       n               Financing Per_Pats
Works                                        19.00                  90% of expenditures
Goods                                        72.00          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditares (ex-factory cost) and
77% of local expenditures for other items
.                                AD~~~~~~~~~~~rocured locally
Consultants' services, including
training:
(a) for Parts A and B.2 of the Project       10.50                         90%
(b) for Part B. 1 of the Project             5.30                          100%
Incremental Operating Costs                  4.00                          100%
Unallocated                                  10.48
Total Project Costs                         121.28
Front-end fee          1.22
Total                                       122.50
Table D. Bank Loan Disbursement Schedule (000 US$)
Russia Water  Allocation of Loan Proceedings 
FY       Quarter  By Quarter  Cumulative   Percentage
2001 IV             1.225       1.225       1.0%
2002 1              6.125       7.350       6.0%
_______ I        r      7.350      14.700      12.0%
III            8.575      23.275       19.0%
IV             9.800      33.075       27.0%
2003 I              8.575      41 .650     34.0%
11             7.350      49.000      40.0%
III            6.125      55.125      45.0%
IV             6.125      61.250       50.0%
2004 I              4.900      66.150      54.0%
11             4.900      71.050      58.0%
III            6.125      77.175      63.0%
IV             7.350      84.525       69.0%
2005 I              7.350      91.875      75.0%
11             6.125      98.000      80.0%
III            6.125     104.125       85.0%
IV             6.125     110.250       90.0%
2006 I              4.900     115.150      94.0%
11             4.900     120.050       98.0%
III            2.450     122.500       100.0%
- 102 -



Special account:
The Borrower will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) at a commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank. The bank selected for the purpose should be capable of providing efficient payment and clearing
facilities both locally and internationally. The SA will be maintained by the NFHR. The authorized
allocation for this account will be US$4 million. However, the deposit would be limited to US$2 million
until the aggregate withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
comnnitments have reached US$4 million. The Special Account shall be replenished at regular intervals but
at least quarterly.
In addition, Local Project Accounts, one for each participating Vodokanal, for depositing the vodokanals'
contribution towards the financing of its subproject shall be established. The Local Project Accounts
would be kept either in the local branch of the bank that holds the SA, or in another acceptable local bank
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, including protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Each Vodokanal shall deposit and maintain in such Local Project Account, during
the life of the Sub-project, an amount sufficient to cover Sub-project related expenditures estimated to be
required during the following three months. The amounts deposited into the Local Project Account shall be
utilized exclusively to finance the respective costs of carrying out the Sub-project and to meet the
Participating Vodokanals' repayment obligations.
Documentation: Disbursements from the loan proceeds for the following types of contracts will require
full documentation: (1) civil works contracts valued at US$ 2,000,000 or more; (ii) goods contracts valued
at US$ 100,000 or more; (iii) consulting contracts with firms and training contracts valued at US$100,000
or more; (iv) services provided by individual consultants and training under contracts valued at US$50,000
or more; and (v) incremental operating costs under contracts valued at US$50,000 or more. The Bank may
require all other disbursements to be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOE).  Related
documentation in support of SOE will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the
implementing unit for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the
last disbursement is made. This documentation will be available for review by the auditors and the Bank
staff. If ineligible expenditures, including those not justified by the evidence furnished, or amounts in
excess of agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the SA, the Bank will have the right to
withhold further deposits to the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Borrower has: (a) refunded
the amount involved, or (b) submitted evidence (to the Bank's satisfaction) of other eligible expenditures
that the Bank can use to offset the ineligible amounts. The Project will be required to maintain all books
and records for post-review by the Bank's supervision missions and for the auditors.
- 103 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
S                                           Plannd AStu~ i  ]it ^  i
717.8                        697.4
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      23                            23.9
First Bank mission (identification)             09/16/96                      09/16/96
Appraisal mission departure                      11/30/97                     11/30/97
Negotiations                                    03/06/2000                    09/05/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   05/30/2000
Prepared by:
State Committee for Construction and Housing Policy of the Russian Federation (Gosstroi), participating
local governments and vodokanals, and Bank staff
Preparation assistance:
Dutch Trust Fund, Finnish Trust Fund, French Ministry of Equipment, Transport and Tourism, Italian
Trust Fund, Swedish Agency for Intemational Development, Japan PHRD Fund, US Agency for
International Development (USAID), and US Trade and Development Agency (USTDA).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Sp.claf      d:      :
Walter Stottmann                  Sector Manager
Kari Homanen                      Task Team Leader/ Water and Sanitation Engineer
Ede Jorge Ijasz-Vasquez           Environmental and Water Engineer
Olli Lento                        Water and Sanitation Engineer
Augusta Dianderas                 Water and Sanitation Specialist
Sumter Lee Travers                Water and Sanitation Economist
Takao Ikegami                     Water & Sanitation Engineer/Procurement Specialist
Karl Skansing                     Procurement Specialist
Alexandre Roukovichnikov          Procurement Specialist
Gennady Pilch                     Legal Counsel
Vladimir Tsirkunov                Environmental Specialist
Ayse Kudat                        Social Scientist
Bulent Ozbilgin                   Social Scientist
Loup Brefort                      Financial Analyst
Richard James                     Consultant
Clifford S. Isaak                 Financial Management Specialist
Lydia Petrashova                  Disbursement Analyst
Andrew Mackie                     Senior Financial Management Specialist
Maria Teresa R. Lim               Program Assistant
Alexander Danilenko               Consultant
Klas B. Ringskog                  Peer Reviewer
Vincent J. Gouarne                Peer Reviewer
- 104 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
A. Project lmplementation Plan
A. Feasibility Studies
1.    PADCO Report, "Feasibility Assessment, Astrakhan Integrated Municipal Water Company
vodocanal", August 1997
2.    Report Water Management Project for Gagarin, Astrakhan and Tobolsk. DHV Consultants BV
Witteveen + Bos BV Aquanet BV in collaboration with: Accant Larive WL I Delft Hydraulics
Stichting Wateropleidingen - SWO SEBA, April, 1999
3.    Russian vodocanal Institutional and Financial Assessment: "Astrahan Municipal Enterprise
Astrahan vodocanal", by PADCO, Inc. and Institute of Housing and Communal Economy,
Industrial Financial Group RODON, January 19, 1999
4.     Lotti & Associates. "Facility Assessment Report, Cheboksary", September 1998
5.    Lotti & Associates Report "Strategic Investment & Investment Report", September 1998
6.     PADCO  Feasibility Assessment Report:  Cheboksary Municipal Production Enterprise
vodocanal," Republic of Chuvashia November 1997
7.    PADCO Feasibility Assessment Report:    Gagarin Municipal Enterprise "Gorvodocanal,"
Smolensk Oblast August 1997
8.    Kansk vodocanal CH2MHILL Reports: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project Technical
Assessment of Water and Wastewater Facilities and Identification and Preparation of Immediate
Investment Program "Facility Assessment Report (Task I)", March 1998; Strategic Investment
(Task 11); and Investment Report (Task III)", April 1998
9.     PADCO Feasibility Assessment, Municipal Enterprise "vodocanal Nakhodka, Primorskii Krai",
August 1997
10.    Pacific Consultants International Tokyo, Japan in association with Research Triangle Institute
North Carolina, U.S.A. , July 1999
11.    CH2M  HILL INTERNATIONAL SERVICES, INC.  Report, "Nalchik vodocanal Facilities
Assessment" March 9, 1998
12.   PADCO  Feasibility Assessment: Nalchik Municipal Enterprise "vodocanal," Republic of
Kabardino-Balkaria, August 1997
13.    SWECO Report, "Development of Water Services in Oryol", December 1997
14.   PADCO Feasibility Assessment: Orel Municipal Production Enterprise "Orel vodocanal," Orel
- 105 -



Oblast August 1997
15.   PADCO Russian Water Loan Feasibility Assessment: Pechora Structural Sub-Unit "vodocanal,"
Republic of Comi, August 1997
16.    Soil and Water & Plancenter Report, Pechora "Technical Assessment of Water and Wastewater
Facilities, and Identification and Preparation of Immediate Investment Program", November 1997
17.    Soil and Water - Plancenter Report, Pechora "Technical Assessment of Water and Wastewater
Facilities, and Identification and Preparation of Immediate Investment Program", April 1998
18.   PADCO Feasibility Assessment: Petrozavodsk Municipal Enterprise "Petrozavodskvodocanal,"
Karelia Republic November 1997
19.   PADCO Feasibility Assessment: Pskov Partnership with Limited Liability "vodocanal,"
20.    Pskov Oblast", August 1997
21.    SWECO Report, "Development of Water Services in Pskov", December 1997
22.   PADCO Report, "Feasibility Assessment, Sochi Municipal vodocanal" Sochi Krasnodarskii Krai,
August 1997
23.    SWECO Report, "Development of Water Services in Sochi", December 1997
24.    Sochi vodocanal CH2MHILL Reports Municipal Water and Wastewater Project Technical
Assessment of Water and Wastewater Facilities and Identification and Preparation of Immediate
Investment Program "Facility Assessment Report (Task I)", March 1998; Strategic Investment
(Task II); and Investment Report (Task III)", May 1998
25.   E.Idelovich.  Review  and Evaluation of Proposed Rehabilitation and Expansion of Sochi
Wastewater Treatment Plant, Final Report, May 1999
26.    PADCO Report, "Feasibility Assessment: Tobolsk Closed Joint Stock Company "vodocanal,"
Tuymen Oblast", August 1997
27.   PADCO Report,         Institutional and Financial Assessment: Tver Municipal Enterprise "Tver
vodocanal", Tverskaya Oblast, August 1997
28.   BCEOM - THU, "Municipal Water Supply and sewerage project for the cities of Tver, Volkhov &
Vologda", February 1999
29.   PADCO Report, "Feasibility Assessment, Volkhov Municipal Enterprise vodocanal," Leningrad
Oblast, August 1997
30.    PADCO Report, vodocanal Institutional and Financial Assessment: Vologda Municipal Enterprise
"Vologda vodocanal", Vologodskaya Oblast Prepared by PADCO, Inc. and Institute of Housing
and Communal Economy, Industrial Financial Group RODON January, 1999
31.   PADCO Report, Volhov Municipal Enterprise "Volhov vodocanal", Leningradskaya Oblast
- 106 -



Prepared by PADCO, Inc. and Institute of Housing and Communal Economy, Industrial Financial
Group RODON, January 19, 1999
32.   PADCO Assessment:  Votkinsk Municipal Communal Enterprise "Water and Wastewater
Communal Enterprise," Republic of Udmurtia", August 1997
33.    CH2MHill Report, "Votkinsk vodocanal Reports Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Technical Assessment of Water and Wastewater Facilities and Identification and Preparation of
Immediate Investment Program "Facility Assessment Report (Task 1)", March 1998; Strategic
Investment (Task II); and Investment Report (Task III)", March 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Social Assessment: Municipality of Gagarin
2.     Social Assessment: Municipalities of Gagarin and Oryol
3.     Financial reappraisal of sub-loan amounts: Report to GOR
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 107 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                        IBRD      IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P008811        1994 Russian Federat            AGRIC REF IMPL                                     240.00       0.00      115.20      14.42     129.62       1.83
P035764        1996 Russian Federat            BRIDGE REHAB                                       350.00       0.00      158.00      85.42     213.67       0.00
P044200        1997 Russian Federat            BUREAU OF ECON POL                                  22.60       0.00        0.00       9.28       0.24       0.00
P042622        1996 Russian Federat            CAP MRKT DEV                                        89.00       0.00        0.00      74.38      64.65      41.13
P045622        1996 Russian Federat            COAL IAP                                            25.00       0.00        0.00      11.33      11.33       4.08
P050486        1998 Russian Federat            COAL SECAL II                                      800.00       0.00        0.00     150.00     150.00     150.00
P035761        1996 Russian Federat            COMMUNITY SOC INF                                  200.00       0.00       43.50     116.29      95.79       8.29
P008825        1997 Russian Federat            EDUC INNOV                                          71.00       0.00        3.00      60.06       9.00       0.00
P008803        1995 Russian Federat            EGY EFF                                             70.00       0.00        0.00      54.80      91.30      52.30
P050891        1997 Russian Federat            ELEC SECTR REF                                      40.00       0.00        0.00      40.00      40.00       6.00
P040409        1995 Russian Federat            EMG OIL SPILL MITIGATION                            99.00       0.00        0.00      16.42      16.42       0.00
P036973        1996 Russian Federat            ENT HOUSING DIVST                                  300.00       0.00       23.21     246.71     118.93      93.93
P008839        1994 Russian Federat            ENTERPRISE SUPPORT                                 200.00       0.00        0.00     160.10     160.10       0.00
P008821        1995 Russian Federat            ENV MGMT                                           110.00       0.00        0.00      60.53      45.22       0.00
P008828        1994 Russian Federat            FIN INSTS                                          200.00       0.00       59.50      67.54     127.04     127.04
P008814        1997 Russian Federat            HEALTH REFORM PILOT                                 66.00       0.00        0.00      52.39      30.20       0.00
P008827        1995 Russian Federat            HOUSING                                            400.00       0.00       30.00     203.25     233.25       0.00
P034579        1994 Russian Federal            LAND REF IMPL SUPPORT                               80.00       0.00        0.00      51.27      51.27       0.71
P008831        1996 Russian Federat            LEGAL REFORM                                        58.00       0.00        0.00      37.15      37.15       0.00
P038571        1996 Russian Federat            MED EQUIP                                          270.00       0.00       37.70      36.20      73.91       0.00
P008823        1995 Russian Federat            PORTFOLIO DEVT                                      40.00       0.00        1.81      16.97      18.78       0.39
P058587        2000 Russian Federat            REG FISC TA                                         30.00       0.00        0.00      29.20       1.00       0.00
P046496        1998 Russian Federat            SOC PROT IMPL                                       28.60       0.00        0.00      18.71      13.56       0.00
P042720        1997 Russian Federat            ST PETERSBURG REHAB                                 31.00       0.00        0.00      14.32      14.32       0.00
P008537        1996 Russian Federat            STANDARDS DEV                                       24.00       0.00        0.00       6.31       6.31       0.00
P050487        1999 Russian Federat            STATE STATS SYST                                    30.00       0.00        0.00      29.70       3.70       0.00
P053830        2000 Russian Federat            SUST FORESTRY PILOT                                 60.00       0.00        0.00      60.00       0.00       0.00
P038572        1995 Russian Federat            TAXADMIN                                            16.80       0.00        0.00       4.80       4.80       1.70
P008806        1995 Russian Federat            URBAN TRANSPORT                                    329.00       0.00       55.00      28.10      83.10       0.00
Total:     4280.00        0.00       526.92     1755.65    1844.66    487.40
-108-



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
15-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995               A.O. Volga                   26.46   11.00    0.00   34.38   26.46   11.00    0.00   34.38
1996/98            Alpha Cement                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99            Aminex                        0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
1999               Bitech-Silur                 17.50    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1998               Borsteklo                     0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Campina                       8.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.44    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               DCC                           0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
1995               Depsona Z.A.O.                0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998               DreVo                         0.00    0.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.89    0.00    0.00
2000               Dukat                         16.50    0.00    0.00   33.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               First NIS Fund                0.00    7.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.73    0.00    0.00
1994               Framlington Fund              0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00
2000              IkeaMOS                        15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Mosenergo                    20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               PBCM                         25.00    0.00    0.00    15.00   25.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
1997               PLM Eastern Hold              0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
2000               Pan American                  0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Pioneer First                 0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Polar Lights                  4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               RTDC                          0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1998               Ramstore                     30.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   30.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Russ Leasing Co               0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0,60    0.00    0.00
1995               Russ Tech Fnd                 0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1994               Russia Registry               0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1995               SCF                           0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.53    0.00    0.00
1998               Toribank                      0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.24    0.00    0.00
1996               UNEXIM Bank                   6.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               ZAO Pakenso                   6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       176.33    97.67    0.00    82.38   132.33    97.66   0.00   49.31
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998              Depository Clear                500.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2000              Dukat Silver                      0.00      0.00   4900.00     0.00
1998              Elcoteq                           0.00      0.00    100.00     0.00
1998              Garanti Moscow                 5000.00      0.00   3000.00     0.00
2001              Julietta                      10000.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1998              Pakenso                           0.00      0.00   1500.00     0.00
2000              Pan American                      0.00      0.00   3500.00     0.00
1999              Russ Leasing Co                3000.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2000              SCF - RI                          0.00    273.10      0.00     0.00
2000              SEAF Balkan Fund                  0.00      0.00   5000.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    18500.00    273.10  18000.00      0.00
- 109 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
RUSSIAN FEDERATION: Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
Eurpoe &    Lwowr-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 RuIsan   Celtral   Middle.
Fodertinl       Asia  lncom         Development dlamond'
Population, mid-year (mirnofsIn)                     146.2       475      2094                   Life expetancy
GNP per cacita (Atlas mehod  JSSIa                  2.2050     2,t50     1,200
GNP (Atas method. USS b/ions) Is                     32.        1,022     2,513
Aversae annual wowth. 19f3-9911,1
Poputation t%)                                         -0.3       0.1       1.1
Labor force ( %                                        0.0        0,6       1.2     GNP            .'                Gross
per         ', .I              primary
Most recent estimate (loatst year avaltable. 998)capita                                            '..            enrollment
Pover f% of poplst  b*na//lAowovert lneifto             30          -
Urban vooultaion (t% of tote Doptlt/on)                 73        67         43
Lfe expectancy at birt (Vrs")                           a6         69        s9
Infant mortality tpf 1XOk bIN ths)                      16,        22        33
Child msntrition t(% o ch/doren under 5)                 3          8        15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source fX of owotida )         g. ..               86
llt y(% otoopu/.ti/on A" 15+. 3)                                             is -:sa 1:  3eeatt 16
Gross primaenrollment (% otf s o6ton)                  1090       100       114              Russ,anFedeation
1,0e 0                                               109        1O1       114              Lower-middla-income group
Female                                               108        99        1ie
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
197  S   tsT9 1989  1t9t*S98  11199
Economic ratios.
GOP fUSS boons)                                      913.3      277,8     114.8
Gross domestinewastment/GoP                    .,    33.c        15,7      15SS                     Trade
Exports of goods and servicesGOP                      21.9       31 4      457T
Gross domestc savings/GOP                             347        20.4      32.9
Gross natioa savingsGOP                                          16,0      26.7
Current account talanceGlOP              ;0e3 11.2 
lterest p    a/GOP p.                                                         ; 1.4   i'  omestc  i n            Investment
Totat debt/GOP                                           .       87lJ      06.8
Total debt evlceexports                                          10.3      11.8
Present vatue of debttGDP                                 .      59.4
Pteent value of debt/exports                    .        .      18760
Indebtedness
197948S  r9  1989    i99       1i9S   1999403
(avatape annua/ grwh)
GOP                                  2.8      .2       -4.9       3.2       4.3               Russian Federation
GNP per capita                         .      .8.6     8 .6       0.7       4.8               Lower-middle-income group
Exorts of ooods andtservices                  1.       -2.3      -3.0       2.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)                                                                          19
Aoriculture                                    ..    16.8         5.4       6.6
Industrv                                              50.2       36.4      37.7      o
Manufacturinc                                 ..                 .. ..  .. 1t
Services                                              33.0       58.2      55.7    20          /
Private consumotion                                   45.1       65.8      54.5    .30
General oovernment consumption                        20.1       13.8      12.6              -    GDI        t  GDP
Imports of goods and services                         21 0       26.6      28.3
1979-89  1989-99      t 998     1999      Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                            -7.0     -13.2       2.4    2C-
Industry                                               -9.5      -5.2       8.1
Manufacturine                                                                      o .  .' ..
Services                                              -2.3       -2.5      -0.1
Private consumption                                     1.4      -2.6       -53     20.2
General government consumption                         -0.7       0.1       4.3
Gross domestic investment                             -20.5     -26.0       5.6    40          -Exports    0*Imports
Imports of eoods and services                          -3.9     -14.8     -29.9
Gross national product                                 -6.8      -6.8       0.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv tin bold) compared with its income-oroup averaoe. If data are missino, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-110 -



Russian Federation
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999     Inflation (%)
DomestUcpriceso
(% chan.e)                                                                         1,000
Consumer prices                                 ..               27.7     85.7      750 t
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..       ..       14.4     63.3      soo5 
Government finance                                                                  250t
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                 ..      ..       30.2     33.5               94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                         ..       ..       -2.8       1.6          -     GDP deflator    v CPI
Overall surplusideficil                        ..       ..       -8.3     -3.6
TRADE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..       ..   74,888          75,306  100,000
Crude oil                                     ..       ..   10,276    14,089      750
Naturalcgas                                   ..       ..   13,502    11,362      7,
Manufactures                                  .        ..     9,000    8.609*_ _ 
Total imports (cif)                            ..       ..   60,438   41,261        50s00       *
Food                                          ..       ..   10,800      8,137     25.00      -i" "
Fuel and enerqy                               ..       ..    1.654       451
Capital goods                                 ..       ..   15,856    10,167          0
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      ..        83        83             93  94  95  98  s7  98  99
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      ..        87        88               * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..        95        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    19S9       1998      1999      Currant account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   ..      ..   87,259    84,346      12--
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..   74,013   52,288
Resource balance                                ..      ..   13,246   32,058
Net income                                      ..      ..  -11,900   -11,900
Net current transfers                          ..       ..      -409       534        - .                             I
Current account balance                        ..       ..       937   20,692
Financing items (net)                          ..       ..  -11,701   -16.865       o__, __
Changes in net reserves                        ..       ..   10,764    -3,827           93   94   95   96   97  9go 99
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ mittIons)                         12,223    12,456
Conversion rate (locallUS$)                                       9.7     24.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      199S      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..       ..  186,114   176,898
IBRD                                         ..       ..    6,424      6,809
IDA                                          ,.       ..         0         0              G: 5,35r   A 6,809
Total debt service paid                        ..       ..    9.100      9,834                                    D: 57
IBRD                                         ..       ..       383       520
IDA                                           ..      ..         0         0
Comoosition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..       ..        85                  F: 80,733( 
Official creditors                           ..       ..       822      -707                             E : 68,696
Private creditors                            ..       ..    9,657       -200
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..    2,764        746
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..       296       368
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..       ..    1,500        430      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..       ..    1,228        538      B-IDA    0 DOther multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..       ..        66       150      C- MF                      G . Short4trm
Netflows                                      ..      ..    1,162        388
Interest payments                            ..       ..       317       370
Net transfers                                ..       ..       845        18
Development Economics and Country Team.                                                                              8/31100
- 111 -






MAP SECTION






> S - g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o J '  '  :,  ,00    j  4, 1  X    ''\.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
F   ,3   <.  ;  2<   -   4  i   t   >   .'    X    1:t,'   -Mt';~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~ elsX69se    jL
O   oAd0l T<Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
oe <
u  i ,-     4S Z* >   osfn -     ' V C
v<  ,         d- D.-.''>_--



