Report No. PID4950
Project Name                     Russian Federation-Municipal Water (@)
and Wastewater Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Sewerage; Urban Water Supply
Project ID                       RUPE8832
Borrower(s)                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Implementing Agency
Address MUNICIPAL WATER AND WASTEWATER
ENTERPRISES
State Committee for Housing and Construction
Policy (Gosstroi) and
National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR)
National Foundation for Housing Reform
Room 210 - 6, Tverskoy Boulevard, Moscow,
103009 Russia
Contact Person: Valeria Sergeeva - Manager
Tel: 7-095-290 4245
Fax: 7-095-202-9201
Email: ruswater@online.ru
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                December 12, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         December 1997
Projected Board Date             December 21, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
The Water Sector Study prepared jointly by the Russian government and the
Bank in 1996 provided guidance for the policy content of the project. The
study depicts a continuing deterioration in the capacity of most of the
country's vodokanals to provide reliable and safe water and wastewater
services. The financial base of vodokanals has eroded alarmingly. Most of
them suffer from large financial deficits. Maintenance has been inadequate
and investments in system rehabilitation and new construction have come to
halt. The population is dissatisfied with the quality of services and
worried about safety of the supply, as inadequate water treatment is held
responsible for an increasing number of water-related diseases. If the
country's water and wastewater infrastructure is allowed to continue to
deteriorate, public health concerns will rise and the quality of life of a
large segment of the population will further decline.The sector study
points out that the past system of central command and control and the
government's subsidy policies is responsible for the disincentives and
distortions which prohibit efficient sector management and development.
These manifest themselves in: Poor state of repair of facilities: The
water and wastewater networks and treatment plants are in a state of
severe disrepair due to poor planning, inadequate design, low quality of
materials and equipment used, and, above all, lack of appropriate periodic
maintenance and repairs due to shortage of financial
resources.Inefficient operations: Potable water and wastewater treatment



plants have been inappropriately designed and are poorly maintained and
operated. As a consequence, these plants perform badly in terms of
quality of output and efficiency. Other components of the water and
sewage systems are similarly inefficient. For example, water networks
suffer from excessive leakage - loss rates of 50% and more are not
uncommon - and hydraulically improper design; sewer pipes take on
excessive leakage and infiltration. Lack of incentives for water
conservation: Low efficiency of water use is the norm. The negligible
level of water charges for raw and bulk water and the low prices for water
services provide very weak signals to water users about the value of the
resource. Under this incentive regime, water users react as they do in
any other economy, by refusing to invest money in optimizing their water
supply systems (internal plumbing, industrial systems) or managing
demand. Households, industry and public agencies, not accustomed to water
conservation and not faced with appropriate water tariffs waste
significant amounts of water, driving up operating costs
unnecessarily.Lack of financial viability: All vodokanals in the project
are facing reduced government transfers due to fiscal constraints. At the
same time, they are authorized to charge low and distorted tariffs which,
combined with poor collections, cannot make up for the traditional budget
subsidies of the past. Additionally, the vodokanals face a tax structure
which penalizes efficient use of financial resources. The final result is
a disastrous financial situation that prevents them from doing any
maintenance and paying on time vodokanal staff or accumulating large debts
to their suppliers, most notably electricity providers. Additionally, the
utilities and municipalities have made little or no investments in
rehabilitation, repair and/or expansion of facilities for years. This
trend brings the water and sanitation systems towards lower and lower
service levels that will bring parts, and eventually the totality of the
system, to a halt.Institutional and regulatory weakness: The water
utilities are overstaffed, technically oriented entities with insufficient
concern for efficiency and little autonomy and no control over crucial
aspects of their business. Lack of adequate information: The financial
and technical information available to the utility management is
insufficient and does not provide the information base needed to manage
the operations or plan the development of the water and sanitation systems
efficiently.The sector study proposes the initiation of a comprehensive
program of sector reforms made up of four main elements: (i)
transformation of present vodokanals into independent "corporatized"
utilities regulated by local government; (ii) gradually turning vodokanals
into financially self sufficient institutions through tariff reform and
better collection; (iii) reformation of past investment policies by
introducing least cost strategies giving preference to plant and network
rehabilitation and efficiency enhancements; and (iv) bringing in the
consumers as a participating party in vodokanal decision making. These
reform principles have been formally endorsed by the government of the
Russian Federation as part of its overall program of reform of the
communal services sector. Gosstroi, the parent organization of the sector,
has made its demand for reform clear throughout the preparation of the
project.
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to arrest the decline of water and
wastewater services of fourteen medium-size cities (less than 500,000
inhabitants) located in different regions of Russia that have demonstrated
- 2 -



their commitment to the project objectives and the institutional reforms
necessary to achieve them. More specifically, at the city level, the
project seeks to: (a) support the most critical and immediate investments
needed to improve the operation of the water and wastewater systems while
achieving improvement of system operations, reduction of operational
costs, improvement of service quality; and (b) implement a specific set of
institutional and commercial reforms aimed at improving physical system
operations and financial performance of vodokanals. Through project
implementation, the Russian Federation will extract lessons from the
implementation of the fourteen sub-projects over a wide range of local
conditions and the project will support the preparation of replicable
methodologies, guidelines, and case studies to guide the government's
program of municipal services reform aimed at helping municipal local
governments and their water and wastewater enterprises (vodokanals) to
become better managed, more efficiently operated and financially
sustainable utilities that are capable of providing water and wastewater
services of a higher quality to their customers in a cost-effective
manner.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Federal government authorities have repeatedly indicated that the
involvement of the Bank is essential for the design and implementation of
the country's first significant municipal water and wastewater project.
The Government of the Russian Federation wishes the project to serve as a
model to be used to disseminate and promote sector reform to other
municipalities of the Russian Federation. The Bank is playing an important
catalytic role in attracting significant donor support for water and
wastewater sector reform and rehabilitation. The Bank has been able to
help mobilize technical and financial support from seven bilateral donors
(Sweden, Finland, the US, France, Italy, the Netherlands and Japan) in the
preparation phase. Table 5.1 presents the sources of support for the
various technical, institutional, financial, and engineering studies
completed during project preparation for the 14 vodokanals. Additional
studies were completed with the support of donor countries for other
cities that chose not to continue with project preparation.Table 5.1:
Donor Support for Project PreparationCityInstitutional, financial,
willingness-to-pay and affordability analysisTechnical analysis and
definition of immediate investments Preparation of Bidding Documents for
Immediate Investment ProgramAstrakhanPHRD
(Japan)NetherlandsNetherlandsCheboksariUSAIDItalyFinlandGagarinUSAIDNetherl
andsNetherlandsKanskUSAIDUSTDASelfNakhodkaJapanJapanSelfOryolUSAIDSwedenSwe
denPechoraUSAIDFinlandFinlandPetrozavodskUSAIDFinlandFinlandPskovUSAIDSwede
nSwedenSochiUSAIDUSTDASelfTobolskUSAIDNetherlandsNetherlandsVolkhovPHRD
(Japan)FranceSwedenVologdaPHRD
(Japan)FranceSwedenVotkinskUSAIDUSTDAFinlandFinland, Sweden and United
Kingdom have agreed to support also the project implementation phase.
They are anticipated to participate in: (i) the financing of the
preparation of designs and bidding documents for the MSOIP in selected
cities; (ii) procurement support; and (iii) technical assistance program.
4. Description
1. Immediate Investment Program (IIP)
In each city, a set of high priority immediate investments have been
-3 -



identified, justified, costed and designed by consultants during project
preparation. The IIP for the vodokanals has an implementation period
generally of no more than two years; and a total cost below the
sub-project loan size to allow sufficient resources for the implementation
of the Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program.
2. Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program (MSOIP)
The objective of this component is to implement a specific and
well-defined set of technical and commercial reforms aimed at improving
physical system operations and management and financial performance of
Vodokanals. The MSOIP is divided into two closely related sub components
2.1 Technical Assistance/training
This sub-component will finance the consulting services to support: (i)
the development and implementation of a new governance and commercial
system, accounting and financial management system , tariffs setting
system and metering strategy; and (ii) the identification of investments
to improve the quality and efficiency of water and wastewater services.
Finland, Sweden and United Kingdom are expected to participate in the
financing of this component.
2.2 Investment Support
This sub-component will finance investments (goods, works and training)
in order to: (i) improve the management of vodokanals; and (ii) improve
the operational efficiency of the existing systems through implementation
of the interventions defined under sub-component 2.1. The investments in
this category would include various items generally used with water and
wastewater systems like pipes, valves, pumps, mechanical and electrical
parts, and controls, bulk and block meters, maintenance equipment, leak
and pressure management equipment, and other equipment.
3. Project Management and
Implementation Support
3.1 Final Designs and Bidding Documents
Consultants will assist each of the participating vodokanals in the
elaboration of final designs and bidding documents of all investments in
the MSOIP. Finland and Sweden are expected to participate in the
financing of this component.
3.2 Supervision of Construction
Consultants will assist vodokanals in the supervision of construction to
ensure that the quality of equipment and civil works under both the IIP
and the MSOIP meet adequate standards of quality and that bills provided
by suppliers and contractors are correct.
3.3 General Procurement Assistance
Qualified advisors will assist the National Foundation for Housing Reform
(NFHR) and vodokanals in procurement actions to ensure compliance with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines. The
- 4 -



advisors will also be responsible for training the staff in the NFHR and
in various vodokanals in handling procurement. Sweden will finance this
component.
3.4 Project Implementation Arrangements: The NFHR will be responsible
for managing and supervising the project. The NFHR will be the main link
with the Bank and fully responsible for ensuring that the project is
implemented efficiently in accordance with the provisions of the Loan
Agreement.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       168.9
6. Implementation
Implementation period: 2001-2005Executing agencies: Water and wastewater
enterprises (vodokanals) of Astrakhan, Cheboksary, Gagarin, Kansk,
Nakhodka, Oryol, Pechora, Petrozavodsk, Pskov, Sochi, Tobolsk, Volkhov,
Vologda, and Votkinsk.An inter-ministerial committee was created by the
Government, including representatives of the Ministry of Finance (MOF),
the Ministry of Economy, the State Committee for Environmental Protection,
and the State Committee for Housing and Construction Policy (Gosstroi),
responsible for the overall direction and strategic oversight of the
Project. The MOF will be responsible for the financial aspects of the
Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements, and for monitoring, jointly with
Gosstroi, the financial position of the vodokanals. Overall management
and supervision of the project will be the responsibility of the Gosstroi
of the Russian Federation. Day-to-day implementation and administration of
the project will be executed on behalf of Gosstroi by the National
Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR). The Foundation is a Russian
non-profit organization that is supervised by a Council comprising
representatives of the key ministries responsible for managing Bank
projects in the communal services sector. The Council is chaired by
Gosstroi which is spearheading the government's program of reform in this
sector. The Foundation already supervises the Bank-financed Housing Loan
(RU-3850) project. During project preparation, a Project Review Unit
(PRU) was created attached to Gosstroi. The Charter of the NFHR has been
modified to incorporate the PRU as one of the implementing units to be
established for the management and supervision of World Bank projects.
The NFHR will be responsible for all aspects of Project administration,
management and coordination, including Project-related financial
management, accounting, procurement, disbursement, engagement of outside
auditors and preparation of appropriate auditing reports and their
dissemination, and preparation of progress reports and annual reports with
respect to the Project.Each vodokanal sub-project will be governed by a
Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with MOF,
Gosstroi, the NFHR and the participating vodokanals and Oblast and
municipal governments as signatories. The vodokanals will be the borrowing
entities. Oblast and municipal governments will provide loan guarantees to
the MOF. During project implementation, each participating vodokanal will
maintain a Local Project Implementation Unit (LPIU), with qualifications
and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to lead and
supervise the implementation of its sub-project and to provide the primary
liaison point for the NFHR. LPIUs will be staffed with existing vodokanal
- 5-



specialists. The specific roles and responsibilities of the NFHR and
LPIUs in regards to procurement, accounting, financial reporting, and
auditing are presented below.Project Financial Management ArrangementsA
Financial Management Assessment (FMA) has been carried out for the project
and is attached in Annex 5A. Necessary improvements for strengthening the
financial management capacity of the project entities to meet the Bank's
requirements have been identified and discussed with them as part of the
FMA. All actions required by negotiations and Board presentation have
been successfully completed (Annex 5A). Subsequently the project financial
management system is certified by Bank FMS as meeting minimum financial
management requirements of the Bank.Financial Management and Accounting:
Project accounts and financial management reporting to the Bank, both at
the project and the entity level, will be the responsibility of the NFHR.
The NFHR will establish project financial management systems, including
internal controls, accounting , and reporting, acceptable to the Bank.
Such systems would: (i) reliably record and report all assets and
liabilities, and financial transactions of the project; and (ii) provide
sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring project
activities. Project Management Reports (PMRs) would be submitted by the
NFHR to the Bank quarterly and annually as indicated in Section B.6 of the
FMA (Annex 5A). Formats of the PMRs and the timing of submission of the
first PMR were confirmed at negotiations. The project accounts will be
maintained by the NFHR on the basis of sub-project accounts and other
information supplied by the LPIUs. Detailed accounts will be kept for
each project component, including for individual sub-projects, in
accordance with a Chart of Accounts acceptable to the Bank. The LPIUs will
maintain the sub-project accounts and records (including a fixed assets
register for project-related investments in a manner acceptable to the
Bank) related to their individual sub-projects, and submit the information
to the NFHR for review and incorporation into the consolidated accounts.
Appropriate staffing for financial management functions (including
training and technical assistance as required) at the NFHR as well as at
the LPIUs has been discussed under the FMA. Operational Manual for the
project describing the financial management procedures and practices to
be followed by the NFHR and the LPIUs has been completed and adopted by
the NFHR.Auditing: The project financial statements, the Special Account
and Statements of Expenditure (SOE) will be audited at the end of each
fiscal year during project implementation, in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. Since the NHFR has already been submitting audit reports to the
Bank as required under the Housing Project, it is expected that the
auditor employed for this purpose will also undertake the auditing of the
proposed project. The audit will cover both the project and the entity
(NHFR) financial statements. The audit will include in particular: (i) an
assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to
monitor expenditures and other financial transactions, and ensure safe
custody of the project-financed assets; (ii) a determination of whether
adequate documentation has been retained for all relevant transactions;
(iii) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible
for financing; and (iv) identification of any ineligible expenditures.
Copies of the audit report will be submitted to the Bank within six months
of the close of the Borrower's fiscal year. The audit report will include
both the compiled account of expenditures incurred during the fiscal year,
and the SOE used for withdrawal from the Special Account. Special
attention would be paid to confirm the transparency and accountability of
- 6 -



the use of funds from the sub borrower beneficiary vodokanals and
deposited in the sub-project accounts for each vodokanal. Terms of
reference for the audit and selection of the auditor will be reviewed by
the Bank every year.One of the main project objectives is to improve the
financial situation of the participating vodokanals. The introduction of
cost-recovering tariffs and determined enforcement of revenue collection
from all consumers are key steps in reaching this objective. Confirmation
and knowledge of the financial position of the participating vodokanals is
also a crucial factor influencing the success of the project. Currently,
the vodokanals do not have the capacity to prepare financial statements in
accordance with international accounting standards (IAS). To address this
deficiency, an important provision under the project is the adoption by
the vodokanals of a special program for strengthening their financial
management capacity and for transitioning to the adoption of IAS-based
accounting. Consequently, it was agreed with the project entities under
the FMA that, for the first two years of project implementation, the 14
participating vodokanals would have their financial statements prepared in
accordance with Russian Accounting Standards (RAS), and audited by local
auditors. To provide the necessary training to the vodokanals' staff and
to the local auditors, and to prepare accounting information that can be
used for management, and monitoring and reporting purposes, consultants
qualified and experienced in IAS and international standards of auditing
(ISA), will be employed by the vodokanals to help prepare IAS based
accounts on the basis of the RAS accounts. This work will be part of the
overall Action Plan for strengthening the financial management capacity of
the vodokanals that would be carried out under the MSOIP. The detailed
terms of reference for this part of the work under the MSOIP will be
defined and agreed within 18 months from loan effectiveness. Adequate
funds would be allocated for this purpose under the MSOIP contract. It is
expected that, starting from the third year of project implementation, the
participating vodokanals would be able to prepare financial statements in
accordance with IAS, and correspondingly, to have the audits conducted
according to ISA. Project Procurement ArrangementsThe procurement of civil
works, goods and services of the Bank-financed components will be in
accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Each participating
vodokanal will be responsible for the preparation of bidding documents,
designs and specifications, evaluation of bids and awarding contracts.
Each vodokanal will set up a Local Project Implementation Unit (LPIU)
which will be responsible for procurement and other project activities.
The staff will consist of vodokanal own staff. Staff will receive (or has
already received) procurement training in seminars organized by their
design consultants in collaboration with the Bank's Field Office in
Moscow. Qualified procurement advisors will be hired to assist the NFHR
and participating vodokanals and to ensure compliance with the Bank
procurement rules. NFHR will assist and oversee the procurement
operations of LPIUs. All procurement documents need to cleared by the
NFHR before they are sent for the Bank's no-objection.Monitoring and
EvaluationThe Action Plan under the FMA includes a timetable for the NFHR
to progressively meet in full the Bank's PMR requirements. Reporting
arrangements for the transition period have been discussed under the FMA
and were confirmed at negotiations. Initially, the financial statements
to be submitted would include the following: For the project, (i) project
sources and uses of funds; (ii) uses of funds by project activity; (iii)
project balance sheet; (iv) project cash withdrawals; and (v) Special
Account statement; and for the entity (NHFR), (i) balance sheet; (ii)
- 7 -



income statement; and (ii) cash flow statement. The financial statements
will be submitted quarterly within one month of the end of the relevant
quarter; audit reports by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will
be submitted annually. The NFHR will also submit other reports in regard
to progress of project implementation as follows: (i) procurement
(semi-annually); and (ii) project output monitoring indicators
(annually). The NFHR, with input from the LPIUs, would prepare a detailed
mid-term report to serve as the basis for a Project Mid-Term Review. The
NFHR and the LPIUs would also prepare and submit an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) within six months of the Closing Date of the Bank
loan. Included in the ICR would be an assessment of the execution of the
project, its costs and benefits derived or to be derived, the performance
of the Borrower, the vodokanals, the Bank and other agencies involved in
the Project regarding their respective obligations and accomplishments,
and lesson learned. An Early Implementation Assessment will be undertaken
in the first year of implementation.
7. Sustainability
Prospects for sustainability are enhanced by the strict entry
conditionalities, to be followed by rigorous project supervision by the
Bank. Entry conditionalities include credible up-front actions in regard
to improving financial performance. A key requirement for sustainability
will be the willingness and ability of the vodokanals to raise the
resources needed to fund their operations adequately. This includes a
much higher level of maintenance expenditure than has been the case over
the past years, and increased generation of internal funds required for
the local counterpart contributions and repayment of the loan.
Achievement of these goals will require the vodokanals to substantially
increase their overall efficiency, including the introduction of cost
recovering tariffs and substantial improvements in the rate of revenue
collection. The participating vodokanals, with the support of their city
and oblast governments, have taken required up-front actions, including
significant increases in average tariffs and in the share of cash
collection in total collections, and have already committed themselves to
further substantial improvements in undertakings that they have signed
with the Ministry of Finance. The management of vodokanals and the
municipal governments are conscious of the urgency of improving
operational, commercial and financial performance and recognize the
importance of making full use of the services of internationally reputed
consultants with specific experience on operations and management of water
utilities that will be financed under the project. The core team of
experts established in the NFHR will continue to spearhead the reform
agenda beyond the life-time of the proposed project. The Bank will
closely follow progress in institutional strengthening under its
supervision activities and proactively seek prompt remedial action if and
when warranted. For the Bank, flexibility and a willingness to adjust the
project for unforeseen circumstances, but equally, a readiness to use its
remedies in case of nonperformance by the project entities, will be
required.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
While water and sanitation projects are being prepared or undew way in
most of the transition countries (e.g. Armenia, Kazakhstan, Poland,
Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Ukraine and the Baltic countries), the
Bank involvement in the sector is still at the beginning . However, the
- 8 -



Bank's experience in the sector worldwide and the limited experience of
the Bank's activity in transition countries do provide valuable guidance
for this project. One of the main lessons is that poor quality of entry
often results in unrealistic expectations and overoptimistic projections
with the result that many projects fall short of meeting the institutional
and financial development targets of these projects. The project design
takes into account such experiences and relies on up front actions. It
requires realistic commitment by addressing "disabling" sector policies up
front, and takes into account the social and political dimension of the
reform agenda. The seriousness with which participating local government
authorities and vodokanal were prepared to adhere to reform and
strengthening objectives was tested throughout project preparation. As a
result, only municipal governments and vodokanal which agreed to the
project's reform principles and complied with initial "self-selection"
conditions to demonstrate their commitment were included in the
project.The proposed project takes into consideration past Bank's
experiences, particularly in the context of transition countries, where
the need for reform and the unfamiliarity of clients with the Bank and its
procedures are more pronounced than in the countries where the Bank has
operated for many years. Learning from past experience, the following has
been taken into account with respect to quality of project entry and
commitment: (i) secure the commitment of the beneficiary vodokanal and the
local and regional government to the project's financial reform objectives
up front, i.e. basic decisions on adequate tariffs to be in place prior to
inclusion of a vodokanal in negotiations and for the sub-project to become
effective; (ii) project cost and loan amount was agreed on the basis of a
realistic assessment of the vodokanal's financial capacity, particularly
after the 1998 financial crisis, and given the level of tariffs that
municipal authorities considered to be socially acceptable for their
constituents; (iii) clear understanding and full agreement of the
municipal authorities and vodokanal managers on the Immediate Investment
Program; (iv) provision of technical assistance to the vodokanals to
identify, design and implement mandatory programs of institutional
strengthening and facilities rehabilitation and efficiency improvements;
loan set asides for the Management Strengthening and Operational
Improvement Program can only be used for undertakings recommended by the
consultant, and approved by the vodokanal and the Bank; (v) building of a
strong project implementation capacity early on through the creation of a
project implementation unit at NFHR staffed with a core group of
experienced Russian specialists that have been fully involved, from the
early stages, in all aspects of the preparation of the project; (vi)
completion of bidding packages for the first year of investments and
hiring of consultants for preparation of bidding packages for the entire
Immediate Investment Program by Board presentation; and (vi) procurement
for first-year investments, preparation of draft bidding documents for the
majority of the Immediate Investment Program, as well as the hiring of the
key consultants is expected to be completed at the time of project
effectiveness. The bidding documents for about 45t of the total
investments are expected to be ready by effectiveness.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project has been classified as Category B,
which requires a limited environmental review to identify potential
- 9-



negative environmental impacts and propose mitigation and monitoring
measures where needed. A review of potential environmental impacts from
the proposed investments has been carried out during the project
preparation process for each of the participating cities by the Vodokanals
with the assistance of foreign consultants. This will be complemented by
sub- project specific Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) that will be
prepared, reviewed and approved by Russian authorities and the Bank prior
to any construction activities being undertaken in the concerned
municipality.The project is not anticipated to have significant negative
environmental effects and will not result in any involuntary resettlement
or land acquisition since it focuses on rehabilitation of existing network
and facilities. All work will be executed either within the premises of
existing facilities or within the right of way of public streets.. The
project will not finance construction of new facilities for water
production, water treatment, or wastewater treatment. Investments financed
by the project will not affect any known archeological or historical site
or any critical natural habitats, nor will it entail resettlement or
affect indigenous peoples. None of the structures to be rehabilitated
include dams.Nevertheless, the project may cause some environmental
impacts that require mitigation measures related to: (i) inappropriate
disposal of excavated materials, construction debris, and small quantities
of hazardous wastes and materials related to construction activities; (ii)
damage caused by contractors during construction activities; and (iii)
nuisance during construction (noise, dust, and traffic disruption). The
contract documents include provisions for mitigation measures and/or
avoidance. Participating vodokanals, under the guidance of Gosstroi and
the Bank, are preparing public meetings to discuss project objectives and
construction activities and their likely impacts on the environment and
public at large.OP 7.50, "International Waterways" applies to twelve
sub-project , which are located on international waterways as defined by
paragraphs (a) or (b) of the policy. These include the cities of
Astrakhan, Cheboksary, Gagarin, Oryol, Petrozavodsk, Pskov, Sochi,
Tobolsk, Volkhov, Vologda, and Votkinsk. These sub-project involve
rehabilitation of existing schemes and/or construction, which in the
team's judgment (i) will not adversely change the quality or quantity of
water flows to the other riparians; and (ii) will not be adversely
affected by the other riparians' water use. Given the nature of the
planned interventions to be supported by the sub-project and the fact
that they will not adversely impact downstream riparian countries, the
exception to the external notification requirements of OP 7.50, as set
forth in paragraph 7(a) of the policy has been determined by LEGOP and
ECSSD to apply in the case of the project. To the extent that future
sub-project sub-mitted by additional vodokanals or identified under MSOIP
may impact the environment within Russia and/or other riparian countries,
they will have to comply with the applicable policies and procedures of
the Russian Federation and Bank. The project is expected to result in
environmental and health benefits because: (i) rehabilitation and improved
operation and maintenance of the water treatment plants will assure
improved drinking water quality, reduction in the use of chemicals and
better handling of water treatment residuals; (ii) rehabilitation of parts
of the water supply network will reduce water losses and decrease the
volume of water intake; (iii) rehabilitation and improved operation and
maintenance of the wastewater treatment plants will reduce the risk of
sewage spills, and assure improved quality of wastewater released after
treatment and better handling of solid and liquid wastes; (iv) pumping
- 10 -



station rehabilitation will increase energy efficiency of the vodokanals'
operations; (v) improvement in operations will contribute to better
day-to-day environmental management (treatment plant waste management,
handling of chemicals, improvement in operation and maintenance of the
sewerage network, including better emergency response; more efficient use
of information from the existing water quality monitoring networks; better
compliance with environmental regulations); and (vi) water conservation
through demand management will reduce the need for construction of new
capacity for years to come. Environmental issues will also be addressed in
the Corporate Development Plans to be prepared under the project for each
vodokanal. Potential environmental issues related to investments included
in the fourteen cities that will initially be supported by the project are
analyzed in the reports available in the Project Files; these will be
complemented by sub-project specific EMPs.The project was reviewed and
approved by the State Committee for the Ecology of the Russian Federation
during appraisal. All components of sub-project with potentially
significant negative environmental impacts, and particularly those with a
construction budget over US$0.5M, will be reviewed by relevant
environmental authorities (either the Department of State Ecological
Expertise or its delegate at the municipal level) to ensure compliance
with the Russian Law on Environmental Expertise. They will also be
reviewed by the Bank for compliance with environmental and disclosure
procedures. Review and approval of projects that require this process,
particularly those components that require an EIA (OVOS) under local
regulations, will take place prior to initiating construction. This
procedure will also be followed for all components of investments in the
fourteen initial cities, as well as those in later phases of the
project.During project supported construction, supervision of
implementation of the environmental management plan for each sub-project
will be one of the functions of the construction supervision consultants.
The project implementation unit at the Central Level (NFHR) will have the
support of an advisor to ensure compliance of the bidding documents for
proposed sub-project with Russian and Bank environmental guidelines.
During project implementation, adequate resources will be made available
for an environmental specialist to be part of the Bank team during
supervision missions, Mid-Term Review and Implementation Completion
Report. Contractors will be responsible, under the clauses of the bidding
documents, for keeping work sites pollution-free, returning sites to their
original conditions, and minimizing dust, noise and other work-related
nuisances. They will also be responsible for notification of the discovery
of any previously unknown archeological and/or historical sites that may
be found during excavation activities.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Kari Homanen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458 9063
Fax:   (202) 614 0902
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
- 11-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 15, 2000.
- 12 -



