Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4593 RU
Loan Agreement
(Municipal Water and Wastewater Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 8, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4593 RU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 8, 2002, between the RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
Page  2
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to 
the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single 
Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General 
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Gosstroi" means the Borrower’s State Committee for Construction and Housing and 
Communal Complex, or any successor or successors thereto;
(b)
"Local Project Account" means the account referred to in paragraph 3 (j) of Part C of 
Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(c)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance, or any successor or successors 
thereto;
(d)
"NFHR" means the National Foundation of Housing Reform, a legal entity organized 
and established in the form of a noncommercial foundation, pursuant to the Borrower’s law ‘On 
Non-Commercial Organizations’, dated January 12, 1996, and operating on the basis of its charter dated 
August 17, 1999, registered by Moscow City Government on September 13, 1999 (Registration No. 
79312 –iu-1), and having a Board of Supervisors whose members include representatives of the MOF, 
Ministry of Economic Development and Trade and Gosstroi;
(e)
"Operational Manual" means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the NFHR 
on November 9, 2000, setting forth procedures and rules related to Project implementation, as the same 
may be amended from time to time;
(f)
"Participating City" means any city or municipality of the Borrower which may from 
time to time have been selected by the Borrower pursuant to Part B of Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and 
"Participating City" means each and any such city;
(g)
"Participating Subject of the Borrower" means any administrative  subdivision of the 
Borrower which is a subject of the Russian Federation, to which any Participating City is legally subject 
under the laws of the Borrower, which may from time to time have been selected by the Borrower 
pursuant to Part B of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(h)
"Participating Vodokanal" means the water and wastewater service entity existing within 
the Participating Cities or Participating Subject of the Borrower;
(i)
"PMR" means the project management report referred to in Section 4.01 (d) (ii) of this 
Agreement, and prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Committee" means the inter-ministerial committee to be established by the 
Borrower, whose members will include representatives of the MOF, Ministry of Economic Development 
and Trade, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Natural Resources and Gosstroi, and referred to in 
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, or any successor or successors thereto;
(k)
"Project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and 
the NFHR, referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Implementation Agreement;
(l) 
"Project Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators developed by the Borrower, and 
satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of Project objectives, referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and set 
forth in the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(n)
"Subsidiary Loans" means loans made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to the Participating Vodokanals for the Sub-projects, and referred to in Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means each and any such loan;
(o)
"Sub-projects" means specific projects designed to rehabilitate and improve the 
operating efficiency of existing municipal water and/or wastewater systems, to improve the quality of 
water and wastewater services to the consumers and to strengthen the institutional, financial, and 
technical capacity of the Participating Vodokanals, and which are to be carried out by the Participating 
Vodokanals utilizing the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loans; and "Sub-project" means each and any such 
sub-project; and
(p)
"Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower, Participating Subjects of the Borrower and Participating Cities, and Participating 
Vodokanals pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements; and "Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement" means each and any such 
agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the "Project implementation entity" 
shall be deemed as a reference to the NFHR.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred twenty-two million five hundred 
thousand Dollars ($122,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Bank 
shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a Participating Vodokanal 
under a Subsidiary Loan to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for Parts B and C of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) 
of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of the said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn 
from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus 
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(
i
)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including 
the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, 
but excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(
i
i
)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
Page  5
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(
i
v
)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by 
it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for 
each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of the 
interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers 
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other 
than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 
15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, commercial, engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project, and shall, 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement
.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, for purposes of the 
Project:
(a)
relend, out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) 
and (3)(a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to the Participating 
Vodokanals the amount of financing (the Subsidiary Loans) required by the Participating Vodokanals in 
respect of their respective Sub-projects, under loan agreements (the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee 
Page  6
Agreements) to be entered into among the Borrower, represented by the MOF and Gosstroi, and each 
such Participating Vodokanal, with the guarantee of a Participating City and Participating Subject of the 
Borrower, in accordance with the procedures, eligibility criteria, and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including, without limitation, the procedures, eligibility criteria, and terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and
(b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Project, and, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in order to facilitate the 
efficient carrying out of the Project, enter into a project implementation agreement (the Project 
Implementation Agreement) with the NFHR, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Bank, which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a)
scope of responsibilities and description of activities to be carried out by the NFHR 
during the execution of the Project, consistent with paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
obligation of the NFHR during the execution of the Project to provide resources and 
appoint qualified staff and engage consultants, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and 
Bank;
(c)
basis of payments to the NFHR; and
(d)
reporting, accounting and auditing requirements.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the procurement of goods, works, and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank not 
later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said 
plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
Page  7
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial position and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheet, statements of 
sources and uses of funds, and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts, and report of such 
audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and  
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause the NFHR to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until 12 months following 
Project completion; and 
 (iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors on the project management reports 
(the PMRs) submitted during such fiscal year, and as to whether the statements 
of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support 
the related withdrawals; and  
Page  8
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and  
accounts, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request. 
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the NFHR to prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a PMR for such period, which:
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified:
(a)
the Project Implementation Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the NFHR to carry out the 
Project; and
(b)
the NFHR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Implementation Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following additional 
events are specified, namely the events specified in Section 5.01 (a) or (b) of this Agreement shall occur 
and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank 
to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the effectiveness of 
this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
Page  9
NFHR; 
(b)
the Borrower, Participating Cities and Participating Subjects of the Borrower, and 
Participating Vodokanals have executed Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements in respect of six 
Sub-projects, and all conditions to the effectiveness of such Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
have been fulfilled; and 
(c)
technical assistance and procurement consultants for the implementation of Part B.1 of 
the Project have been engaged by the NFHR, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of Section 
12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the 
Bank, namely, that the Project Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and NFHR, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NFHR in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of Finance of the Borrower 
responsible for international economic affairs is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ilyinka Street, 9
103009 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction 
 and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  10
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1 202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of 
Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By
/s/  Yuri Ushakov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/  Johannes F. Linn
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items 
so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
the Loan Allocated
% of 
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars
To be Financed
(1)
Works
19,000,000
90%
(2)
Goods
 72,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local 
expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
and 77% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services,
including training:
Page  11
(a) for Parts A and
B.2 of the Project
10,500,000
90%
(b) for Part B.1 of the
   5,300,000
100%
Project
(4)
Incremental
   4,000,000
100%
Operating Costs
(5)
Fee
   1,225,000
Amount due
pursuant to Section
2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
 10,475,000
TOTAL
122,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that 
of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable incremental expenses incurred 
by the NFHR: (i) under Part C of the Project on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including the cost of: (A) transportation and travel; (B) training and attendance of study 
tours, workshops, conferences and seminars; (C) communication; (D) office goods and supplies; (E) 
maintenance of office equipment and facilities; (F) rent and utilities; (G) transportation and travel; (H) 
NFHR consultants’ services and auditing services; and (I) NFHR staff salaries, including qualified social 
charges; and (ii) on account of dissemination of the national program developed under Part B.1 of the 
Project, including cost of study tours, workshops, conferences and seminars, and related travel 
expenditures, and boarding, lodging and per diem allowances of Project beneficiaries, provided, 
however, that the expenditures under items (i) and (ii) hereunder shall be set forth in approved annual 
budgets of the NFHR, adopted pursuant to the Project Implementation Agreement and the Operating 
Manual.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding $125,000 may be made in respect of Category (4) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
June 1, 2000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts not exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent; (ii) 
Page  12
goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) services provided by consulting firms and 
training under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iv) services provided by individual 
consultants and training under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (v) incremental operating 
costs under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve water and wastewater services in the 
Participating Cities through investments aimed primarily at rehabilitating and improving the efficiency of 
existing water and wastewater systems; and (b) strengthen the management, financial position, and 
commercial practices and operations of Participating Vodokanals.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Immediate Investment Program
The carrying out of Sub-projects for the rehabilitation of the existing municipal water and/or 
wastewater systems of the Participating Vodokanals in order to improve the quality of water and 
wastewater services, through the financing of goods, works, supply and install contracts, and services.
Part B
: Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
1.
Development and dissemination of a national program to improve the operation of the municipal 
water and/or wastewater systems, and strengthen the institutional, financial, and technical capacity of the 
water and wastewater service entities, including development and implementation of modern 
commercial, accounting and financial management systems, tariff policies and procedures, consumption 
metering strategies, and programs to reduce operational costs and improve the quality and efficiency of 
service, through the financing of services.
2.
The carrying out of Sub-projects to improve the operation and strengthen the institutional, 
financial, and technical capacity of the Participating Vodokanals, through the implementation of the 
program referred to in Part B.1 above, and preparation of engineering, design and bidding documents, 
through the financing of goods, works, supply and install contracts, and services, including external 
auditing services of Sub-projects.
Part C
: Project Management and Implementation Support
Assistance in the management and implementation of the Project, including procurement related 
activities, design and implementation of a system of financial management and accounting, preparation 
of the accounts and financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, audit of the 
accounts and financial statements referred to above, and institutional strengthening of the NFHR to 
manage and implement the Project, through the financing of incremental operating costs, including 
external auditing services.
* * *
Page  13
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars
)
*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 2006
through June 15, 2017
5,105,000
On December 15, 2017
5,085,000
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 
(d) of the 
General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Page  14
Goods and works, including those under supply and install contracts, shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 
1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods and works, including those under supply and install contracts, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for civil works and supply and installation contracts estimated to cost $5,000,000 
equivalent or more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of 
the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply 
to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or 
more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 
2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $8,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines
.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Page  15
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract procured under the International Competitive Bidding procedures 
under Part B hereof and National Competitive Bidding procedures under Part C.1 hereof, the first two 
contracts procured under the International Shopping procedures under Part C.2 hereof, and the first two 
contracts procured under the National Shopping Procedures under Part C.3 hereof, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth 
in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I and IV of 
the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the 
Bank in January 1997, and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultants Guidelines), 
and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultants Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditors and other services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
Page  16
and 3.6 of the Consultants Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services related to activities under Parts B and C of the Project that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultants Guidelines, may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants 
Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines. Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the procedures set forth 
in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
.
(a) The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with the indicators (the Project Monitoring Indicators) set forth in the Annex to this 
Schedule 5, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
For each year of Project implementation, the Borrower shall, through the NFHR, 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, on or about April 30, 
a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 1, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the preceding year, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
Page  17
date.  
(c)
For each year of Project implementation, the Borrower shall review with the Bank, by 
May 30 or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph 1, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Bank views on the matter.
2. Project 
Committee
.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of the Project, 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, an inter-ministerial coordinating committee (the 
Project Committee), which shall be responsible for the overall direction and strategic oversight of the 
Project.
3.
MOF
.
The MOF shall be responsible for the financial aspects of the Subsidiary Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements.
4.
Gosstroi
.
Gosstroi shall, with the assistance of the NHFR, be responsible for monitoring the 
carrying out of the Project and achievement of Project objectives, and the financial position of the 
Participating Vodokanals.
5.
NFHR
.
The NFHR shall be responsible for day-to-day Project administration, management and 
coordination, including Project-related financial management, accounting, procurement, disbursement, 
engagement of outside auditors and preparation of appropriate auditing reports and their dissemination, 
and preparation of progress reports and annual reports with respect to the Project. 
6.
Participating Subjects of the Borrower and Participating Cities
.
The Borrower shall ensure that 
the Participating Subjects of the Borrower and Participating Cities shall be responsible for setting 
appropriate tariff policies related to the Participating Vodokanals, and otherwise ensuring that the 
Participating Vodokanals’ financial positions are satisfactory, and for providing financial and other 
guarantees related to the Sub-projects.
Annex
to
SCHEDULE 5
Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
1.
The Participating Vodokanals collect for each fiscal year during Project implementation 
sufficient revenues to cover their operating costs, adequate maintenance expenditures and project related 
expenses, or, if such collection does not take place, the relevant Participating Vodokanals, or other 
parties to the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement take adequate and effective measures to correct 
and remedy such a situation.
2.
The Participating Vodokanals achieve for each fiscal year during Project implementation, cash 
collection targets established in their financial improvement programs.
3.
At the completion of the Project, drinking water quality has improved significantly in the 
Participating Vodokanals whose Sub-projects aim to improve drinking water quality, taking into account 
Page  18
prevailing Russian Federation regulatory and environmental standards.
4.
At the completion of the Project, energy efficiency of the Participating Vodokanals has 
improved, taking into account (a) base line figures to be obtained in the beginning of the Sub-projects 
implementation, and (b) the relative level of investment intended to improve energy efficiency of the 
Participating Vodokanals.
5.
During each fiscal year under the Project, starting with year three, the Participating Vodokanals’ 
operational costs will decrease, in comparable (inflation-adjusted) prices and under comparable 
conditions.
6.
At the completion of the Project, the Participating Vodokanals have implemented 
consumption-based billing systems in accordance with the action plan referred to in paragraph 3 (u) of 
Part C of Schedule 7 to this Agreement
.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a 
request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  19
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to 
make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of 
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan 
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Page  20
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the 
funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Procedures, Eligibility Criteria
 and Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans
Part A
: Procedures
1.
No expenditures for goods, works and services required for a Sub-project shall be eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the Sub-project and related Subsidiary Loan shall have 
been approved by the Bank, and a Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement has been executed among 
the Borrower, Participating Subject of the Borrower, Participating City and Participating Vodokanal in 
accordance with the terms of this Schedule 7.
2.
When presenting a Subsidiary Loan to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank, in form satisfactory to the Bank: (a) the draft Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement; (b) 
description of the Participating Vodokanal to which the Subsidiary Loan is proposed to be made, 
including its legal status and ownership; (c) a feasibility and appraisal report of legal and regulatory, 
technical, financial, operational, procurement, and environmental aspects of the Sub-project under Part A 
of the Project, and general identification of the investments under Part B of the Project, including an 
assessment of the potential impact, if any, of the proposed Sub-project, on other riparian countries; and 
(d) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
3.
Following the approval of the Subsidiary Loan by the Bank, the Borrower,  Participating Subject 
of the Borrower, Participating City, and Participating Vodokanal shall execute the draft Subsidiary Loan 
and Guarantee Agreement referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Part A of this Schedule 7, and giving the 
Borrower rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, and containing, inter alia, 
the terms and conditions set forth in Part C of this Schedule 7.
4.
Applications and request made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 shall be presented to the 
Page  21
Bank on or before June 30, 2003.
Part B:
Eligibility Criteria
1.
The Participating Subjects of the Borrower and Participating Cities, and the Participating 
Vodokanals shall be selected based on the receipt by the Borrower of: 
(a)
a letter of commitment satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank and executed by an 
authorized official of the proposed Participating Subject of the Borrower and Participating City, and the 
Participating Vodokanal, which letter shall:
(i)
confirm that tariffs necessary to pay for the Participating Vodokanal’s operating 
expenses, debt service and counterpart contributions to the proposed Sub-project 
will be approved by the relevant authorities;
(ii)
confirm that the Participating City and Participating Vodokanal plan to 
undertake legal and institutional reforms necessary to ensure that the 
Participating Vodokanal is a legally and operationally autonomous entity; 
(iii)
confirm that the Participating City and Participating Subject of the Borrower are 
prepared to meet their respective financial obligations to the Participating 
Vodokanal, including paying in full for water and wastewater services provided 
by the Participating Vodokanal to all organizations and entities owned, 
controlled, or financed by the Participating Subject of the Borrower and 
Participating City, and for residential tariff subsidies due to the Participating 
Vodokanal;
(iv)
assure that all the information necessary to prepare, implement, and monitor the 
Sub-project will be made available to the Borrower, NFHR and the Bank;
(v)
agree to assist the Participating Vodokanal to achieve the overall objectives of 
the Sub-project; 
(vi)
agree to allow the Borrower and NFHR, or their agents or representatives to 
monitor the implementation of the Sub-project, and the fulfillment by the 
Participating Subject of the Borrower and Participating City of the terms and 
conditions of the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement; and
(vii)
confirm that the Participating City and Participating Subject of the Borrower 
agree to the proposed Sub-loan amount and other standard terms and conditions 
of the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement;
(b)
feasibility and appraisal report covering institutional, financial, technical, operational, 
procurement and environmental aspects of the proposed Sub-project; and
(c) 
copy of a decree or order establishing water and wastewater tariffs at the level needed to 
allow the Participating Vodokanal to collect operating revenues sufficient to meet its operational 
expenses and adequate maintenance expenses, taking into account the percentage of billed revenues that 
were collected by the Participating Vodokanal during the previous fiscal year. 
Page  22
2.
Sub-projects shall be selected based on the following criteria:
(a)
Sub-projects shall seek to rehabilitate and improve the operating efficiency of existing 
municipal water and/or wastewater systems, to improve the quality of water and wastewater services to 
the consumers, and to strengthen the institutional, financial and technical capacity of the Participating 
Vodokanals;
(b)
Sub-projects shall include high priority investments that are judged to be technically 
feasible and economically, financially and commercially viable; 
(c)
Sub-projects shall include the implementation of financial, accounting and commercial 
systems to strengthen the financial positions and commercial practices of the Participating Vodokanals; 
and
(d)
To the extent Sub-projects may have an impact on other riparian countries, Sub-projects 
shall comply with the policies and procedures in this regard acceptable to the Bank. 
Part C
: Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements
1.
Each Subsidiary Loan shall be made under a Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement entered 
into by the Borrower, represented by the MOF and Gosstroi,  Participating City and Participating Subject 
of the Borrower, and Participating Vodokanal, and shall include, when appropriate, a repayment 
guarantee by the Participating Subject of the Borrower.
2.
Each Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement shall provide that the Subsidiary Loan shall: 
(a)
be denominated and be repayable (principal and interest) in U.S. Dollars equivalent;
(b)
be repayable in fifteen (15) years, including a five (5) year grace period; 
(c)
carry an interest rate on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time equal to the interest rate specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, plus a 
spread of up to two and one-half percent (2.5%), a commitment charge on the amount of the Subsidiary 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time equal to the percentage of the commitment charge paid by the 
Borrower to the Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and a fee equal to the fee specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement; and
(d)
be equal to no less than $1,000,000 and no more than $30,000,000; and
(e)
contribute no more than ninety (90) percent of the total cost of the Sub-project, net of 
any taxes, duties and levies.
3.
Each Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement shall require, inter
alia
,
that the Participating 
City, Participating Subject of the Borrower, and Participating Vodokanal, as applicable: 
(a)
furnish evidence acceptable to the Borrower that the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee 
Agreement has been executed, and is valid and legally binding upon, the Participating Subject of the 
Borrower, Participating City, and Participating Vodokanal, as applicable;
(b)
carry out and operate the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency under the 
Page  23
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, 
and in accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental, commercial and managerial standards;
(c)
implement, within a specifically described timeframe, financial, accounting and 
commercial systems to allow the Participating Vodokanal to maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and financial positions of the 
Participating Vodokanal, and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Sub-project;
(d)
have the records, accounts and financial statements related to the Sub-project for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and furnish to the Borrower not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year certified copies of the financial statements for such 
year so audited and the report of such audit by the auditors of such scope and such detail as the Borrower 
and the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(e)
procure the goods, works, and services to be financed by the Subsidiary Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and to use such goods, works and 
services exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(f)
allow the Borrower, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall 
so request, and/or the NFHR, to inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included 
in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents, including the financial 
records of the Participating Vodokanal related to the Sub-project;
(g)
take out and maintain, or, when applicable, ensure that third parties receiving goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan maintain, with responsible insurers such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including 
insurance covering hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out 
of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be 
made to replace or repair such goods;
(h)
assume the foreign exchange risk between the Dollar and the currency of the Borrower;
(i)
contribute, as co-financing, from amounts generated internally funds for the Sub-project 
equal to not less than ten (10) percent of the total cost of the Sub-project, net of any taxes, duties, or 
levies;
(j)
open, by the date on which the Participating Vodokanal shall enter into the Subsidiary 
Loan and Guarantee Agreement, and thereafter maintain, a separate account (the Local Project Account) 
in a commercial bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, including 
protection against set-off, seizure, or attachment, and deposit and maintain in such Local Project 
Account, during the life of the Sub-project, an amount sufficient to pay for Sub-project related 
expenditures estimated to be required during the following three (3) months;
(k)
utilize the amounts deposited into the said Local Project Account exclusively to finance 
the respective costs of carrying out the Sub-project and to meet the Participating Vodokanal’s repayment 
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement;
(l)
establish and maintain, with adequate membership, staff and other resources, a local 
Page  24
project implementation unit with the responsibilities for the day-to-day coordination and execution of the 
Sub-project;
(m)
(i)
ensure that the overall collection ratio of each Participating Vodokanal, defined 
as amounts collected by such Participating Vodokanal during the preceding 
fiscal year divided by accrued revenues for the same period, is equal to not less 
than 60% in year 2000, and is equal to or higher than the percentage 
corresponding to the linear increase thereafter, up to the level of 85%, required 
for year 2004; 
(ii) 
ensure that for each of the Participating Vodokanal’s fiscal year during 
Sub-project implementation, the Participating Vodokanal’s collected operating 
revenues are sufficient to meet the Participating Vodokanal’s operational 
expenses, adequate maintenance expenses, and other Sub-project related 
expenses for that fiscal year;
(iii)
ensure that for each of the Participating Vodokanal’s fiscal years during 
Sub-project implementation, the Participating Vodokanal’s cash collection is not 
less than the sum of the 1998 cash collection level in constant 
(inflation-adjusted) terms and total Sub-project related expenses for that fiscal 
year;
(iv)
if the cash collection ratio of the Participating Vodokanal in 1998 was less than 
seventy percent (70%), ensure that during Sub-project implementation, the cash 
collection ratio for such Participating Vodokanal increases from its 1998 level by 
no less than the linear interpolation between the 1998 level and the value of 
seventy percent (70%) for 2004, defined by the following formula: (70% -- cash 
collection in 1998)x(fiscal year – 1998)/6;
(v)
by or before April 15 each of the Participating Vodokanal’s fiscal years during 
Sub-project implementation, the concerned Participating City and Participating 
Subject of the Borrower, and the Participating Vodokanal shall review, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Participating Vodokanal and satisfactory to the 
Bank, whether the Participating Vodokanal would be able to meet the 
requirements set forth in subparagraphs (m) (i) and (ii) above in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the NFHR and the 
Bank a copy of such review upon its completion;
(vi)
if any such review shows that the Participating Vodokanal would not meet the 
requirements set forth in subparagraphs (m) (i) and (ii) for the Participating 
Vodokanal’s fiscal years covered by such review, the concerned Participating 
City and Participating Subject of the Borrower shall promptly take, and ensure 
that the Participating Vodokanal shall promptly take, all necessary measures 
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or level of its water 
and wastewater charges) in order to meet such requirements; and
(vii) 
for the purposes of this subparagraph (m):
(A)
the term "collected operating revenues" means the sum of collected 
revenues from all sources related to operations, consumer deposits, and 
Page  25
operational subsidies received by the Participating Vodokanal;
(B)
the term "operational subsidies" means all subsidies received by the 
Participating Vodokanal in lieu of charges to consumers for services 
provided by the Participating Vodokanal;
(C)
the term "operational expenses" means all expenses, as determined under 
the accrual method of accounting,  related to adequate operation of the 
Participating Vodokanal, including expenditures for personnel, energy, 
chemicals and materials, social payments, taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation;
(D)
the term "adequate maintenance expenses" means the larger of: (i) the 
1998 value, in constant (inflation-adjusted) terms, of maintenance 
expenses incurred by the Participating Vodokanal; or (ii) one percent 
(1%) of the estimated value of fixed assets calculated according to the 
following formula: 0.39 Dollar equivalent per person served by the 
Participating Vodokanal’s water network plus 0.51 Dollar equivalent per 
person served by the Participating Vodokanal’s wastewater network;
(E)
the term "other Sub-project related expenses" means the sum of: (i) the 
Participating Vodokanal contribution to the Sub-project, as specified in 
the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement; and (ii) payments 
required to be made for the repayment of principal, interest and other 
fees related to the Sub-loan and other debt service requirements;
(F)
the term "cash collection" means the collected operating revenues as 
defined in subparagraph (m) (vii) (A) above, received in cash by the 
Participating Vodokanal;
(G)
the term "cash collection ration" means the ratio between the cash 
collection as defined in sub-paragraph (m) (vii) (F) above and the 
collected operating revenues, as defined in subparagraph (m) (vii) (A) 
above, received in either cash or barter, off-sets and other non-cash 
transactions;
(H)
the term "collection ration" means the ratio between the collected 
operating revenues, as defined in sub-paragraph (m) (vii) (A) above and 
revenues on accrual basis for the same period; and
(I)
whenever for the purposes of this paragraph (m) it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to 
the Bank.
(n)
if the Participating Vodokanal received operational subsidies in the year 2000, ensure 
that the total operational subsidies, if any, to be made by the Participating Subject of the Borrower or 
Page  26
Participating City, shall not increase from the 2000 level during the first year of Sub-project 
implementation, and that such subsidies are reduced following a linear decrease schedule so as to be 
eliminated entirely by the end of Sub-project implementation;
(o)
if the Participating Vodokanal did not receive operational subsidies in the year 2000, 
ensure that the Participating Vodokanal receive no such subsidies during Sub-project implementation;
(p) 
ensure that the Participating Vodokanal is not required by the Participating City or 
Participating Subject of the Borrower to provide mandated benefits to preferred customers beyond those 
in effect in June 30, 2000; 
(q)
ensure that the setting and collection of water and wastewater charges during Sub-project 
implementation is done in an effective manner, which shall mean, among other things, that: 
(i)
the Participating Vodokanal’s collected operating revenues are sufficient to meet 
its operational expenses, adequate maintenance expenses and other Sub-project 
related expenses; 
(ii)
water and wastewater charges payable to the Participating Vodokanal by 
municipal or oblast owned or controlled entities (budgetary organizations) and 
overdue by more than thirty (30) days, shall be paid by the Participating City and 
Participating Subject of the Borrower through direct budgetary transfers to the 
Participating Vodokanal, and with respect to amounts payable and overdue by 
more than thirty (30) days from federally owned or controlled entities, 
reasonable efforts and actions will be made by the Participating City and 
Participating Subject of the Borrower to ensure that arrears will be paid; 
(iii)
water and wastewater charges payable by residential, budgetary and industrial 
consumers shall be collected in a timely and efficient manner and, when 
payments are not made on time, water and wastewater services can be and are 
legally terminated in accordance with established policies and procedures; and 
(iv)
water and wastewater charges payable by residential consumers in each fiscal 
year shall be set at a level sufficient to allow 100% cost recovery from such 
consumers in year 2003;  
(r)
(i)
ensure that the Participating Vodokanal does not incur any debt unless a 
reasonable forecast of the Participating Vodokanal’s revenues and expenditures shows that the estimated 
net revenues of the Participating Vodokanal for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred 
shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated debt service requirements of the Participating Vodokanal in such 
year on all debt of the Participating Vodokanal, including the debt to be incurred;
(ii)
for the purposes of this paragraph (r):
(A)
the term "
debt"
 means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(B)
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (aa) under a loan contract or 
Page  27
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of 
its terms of payment on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and 
(bb) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into;
(C)
the term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(aa)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and 
net non-operating income; and
(bb)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt;
(D)
the term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(aa)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and
(bb)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (aa) above;
(E)
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt;
(F)
the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the 
Borrower not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Bank and the Borrower accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has notified the Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no 
event has occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of the Borrower;
(iii)
whenever for the purposes of this paragraph (r), it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank;
(s)
prepare and promptly furnish to the Borrower all such information as the Borrower or the 
Bank shall reasonably request relating to the administration, operations and financial position of the 
Participating Vodokanal, and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project;
Page  28
(t)
maintain the Participating Vodokanal in a legal form satisfactory to the Bank;
(u)
within eighteen (18) months from the time of signing the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee 
Agreement, the concerned Participating City and Participating Subject of the Borrower, and the 
Participating Vodokanal shall complete and agree upon an action plan, satisfactory to the Borrower, 
NFHR, and the Bank, to improve the operation and management of the Participating Vodokanal, which 
shall include a description of specific measures, investments, target dates and costs for: (i) the technical 
assistance and training for the development of appropriate computerized financial and commercial 
systems, introduction of a metering policies and plans, introduction of appropriate tariff policies, levels 
and structures, operational performance assessment, and other activities under Part B of the Project; and 
(ii) investments in hardware, software, macro and micro metering, pipes and other goods and works 
required for the implementation of the Sub-project activities related to Part B of the Project;
(v)
require that the Participating Vodokanal does not submit for approval any new 
procurement packages unless and until it is in full compliance with its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan and Guarantee Agreement, and give the Borrower the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Participating City, Participating Subject of the Borrower, or Participating Vodokanal to the use of the 
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan upon failure by such party to perform its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement; and 
(w)
at the conclusion of the Sub-project, submit to the Borrower, in a manner and by date 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, a Sub-project completion report.
4.
Each Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement shall be subject to the following conditions of 
effectiveness:
(a)
a corresponding local project implementation unit shall have been established;
(b)
a Local Project Account shall have been opened and an amount equivalent to Sub-project 
related expenditures projected to be required during the following three (3) months and due from the 
Participating Vodokanal, Participating City and Participating Subject of the Borrower, shall have been 
deposited into the Local Project Account; and
(c)
a legal opinion satisfactory to the Borrower shall have been issued certifying that the 
Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement has been duly executed, delivered and authorized or ratified 
by all necessary governmental and corporate action of the Borrower, and the concerned Participating City 
and Participating Subject of the Borrower, and Participating Vodokanal, and that such agreement is 
legally valid and binding on the parties thereto in accordance with their terms.
5.
Each Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement shall provide that no withdrawals shall be made 
by the Participating Vodokanal in respect of payments made for expenditures related to activities under 
Part B of the Project unless the Participating Vodokanal has submitted an action plan satisfactory to the 
Borrower, NFHR, and the Bank, in accordance with paragraph 3 (u) of Part C of this Schedule 7.
6.
Each Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreement shall include a Sub-project description, 
Sub-loan amortization schedule and procurement schedule.
Page  29
