                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000935




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                               (LOAN NO. IBRD-45930)

                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT US$122.5 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                               RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                      FOR A

                MUNICIPAL WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT

                                   June 24, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Russian Federation Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective January 29, 2009)
                    Currency Unit = RUR
                   RUR 1.00 = USD 0.03
                  USD 1.00 = RUR 33.05

                      FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1 to December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
DFID         UK Department for International Development
EMMP         Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FMS          Financial Management System
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
HCS          Housing and Communal Services
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IIP          Immediate Investment Program
IRR          Internal Rate of Return
LA           Loan Agreement
Lpcd         Liters per capita per day
LPIU         Local Project Implementation Unit
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MSOIP        Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement
             Program
NA           Not Applicable
NFHR         National Foundation for Housing Reform
PDO          Project Development Objective
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
RCS          Russian Communal Systems
RF           Russian Federation
ROSSTROI     State Committee for Housing and Construction Policy
RUR          Russian Ruble
SIDA         Swedish International Development Agency
TA           Technical Assistance
Vodokanal    Water and Wastewater Municipal Unitary Enterprise
WTP          Water Treatment Plant
WW           Wastewater
WWTP         Wastewater Treatment Plant
               Vice President:        Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
             Country Director:        Klaus Rohland, ECCU1
               Sector Director:       Peter Thomson, ECSSD
              Sector Manager:         Wael Zakout, ECSSD
            Task Team Leader:         Kanthan Shankar, ECSSD

                                       RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                MUNICIPAL WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT

                                                  CONTENTS

Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring (if any)
I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................................ 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................................... 11
4. Rationale for Rating of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................ 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance................................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned..................................................................................................................... 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................ 20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ....................................................................................... 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component............................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.......................... 30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................ 34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................................ 36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................. 37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................... 41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.................................................................................... 42
Annex 10: Examples of Achievement of Project Development Objectives .............................. 43
MAP No. IBRD 30622R............................................................................................................ 46

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Municipal Water &
Country:                Russian Federation      Project Name:
                                                                       Wastewater Project
Project ID:             P008832                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-45930
ICR Date:               06/25/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       RUSSIAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       FEDERATION
Original Total
                        USD 122.5M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 73.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
National Foundation for Housing Reform
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/06/1997    Effectiveness:                             09/13/2002
Appraisal:             11/30/1997    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/21/2000    Mid-term Review:        04/18/2005         04/18/2005
                                     Closing:                06/30/2006         04/30/2009


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                         Yes                                       Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sewerage                                                       50               50
Water supply                                                   50               50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                            67              67
Pollution management and environmental health                   33              33


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:          Shigeo Katsu                     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:        Klaus Rohland                    Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:          Wael Zakout                      Walter A. Stottmann
Project Team Leader:     Shelley Mcmillan                 Kari Homanen
ICR Team Leader:         Alexander V. Danilenko
ICR Primary Author:      Shelley Mcmillan



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Project as stated in the Loan Agreement were to: (a) improve water
and wastewater services in the Participating Cities through investments aimed primarily
at rehabilitating and improving the efficiency of existing water and wastewater systems;
and (b) strengthen the management, financial position, and commercial practices and
operations of Participating Vodokanals.

  More specifically, at the city level, the project sought to: (a) support the most critical
and immediate investments needed to improve the operation of the water and wastewater
systems while achieving improvement of system operations, reduction of operational
costs, improvement of service quality; and (b) implement a specific set of institutional
and commercial reforms aimed at improving physical system operations and financial
performance of vodokanals.



                                             ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of vodokanals with active sub-loans
Value
quantitative or 0                          14                                 13
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2007                         09/15/2008

Comments        Only 5 vodokanals from the original pool of 14 participated in the Project. 8

(incl. %        other vodokanals joined the project in 2003-2004. However, 4.20 million

achievement)    residents (approximately 45% more than originally anticipated in the PAD)
                benefited by the Project.
Indicator 2 :   Average working ratio for participating water utilities
Value
quantitative or 0.95                       <1                                 0.85
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                         09/15/2008
Comments        Utilities substantially improved financial performance due to cost reduction
(incl. %        actions and tariff adjustments resulting in a significant improvement of the
achievement)    working ratio.
Indicator 3 :   Number of utilities with working ratio <1
Value
quantitative or 9                          14                                 12
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2007                         09/15/2008

Comments        Financial performance improved in all utilities including Novocherkassk, Rostov,

(incl. %        Gagarin and Volkhov. In Pskov while the working ration is still above 1, it

achievement)    improved from 1.2 in 2004 to about 1.05 by end of the Project--due to rising cost
                of WW treatment.

Indicator 4 :   Drinking water service quantity and quality - water quality: 99% of samples meet
                quality standards.

Value                                      To be improved in                  Water is provided

quantitative or Supply interruptions;      60% of                             24 hours a day;

Qualitative)    quality - 97%              participating water                compliance rate:
                                           utilities                          98%
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2007                         09/15/2008
Comments        On average, the supply service moved from regular interruptions to a regular 24
(incl. %        hour daily supply. The target of 99% of samples meet quality standards was not
achievement)    reached but compliance was measured at 98%.




                                                 iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                          Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised         Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Cash collection ratio average - 98.8%
Value
(quantitative  0.82                      0.70                                 0.99
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                  12/31/2007                          09/15/2008
Comments       Collection significantly improved during the project period and substantially
(incl. %       exceeded the target value. In addition, the "in-kind" payments for water were
achievement)   discontinued in 2000.
               Energy efficiency improvement (kWh/cub. m of water supplied)

Indicator 2 :  Energy efficiency: 1.98 kWh/m3
               (2.24 kWh/m3 in 2002)


Value                                    To be improved in

(quantitative  2.24                      60% of                               1.90
or Qualitative)                          participating water
                                         utilities
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2007                          09/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Energy efficiency has improved in all utilities due to the cost reduction actions

achievement)   and related energy investments.

               Consumption-based metering

Indicator 3 :  Micro-metering: 55%
               Industrial metering: 90%

Value          40% (industrial metering  100% for all
(quantitative                            participating water                  45% (industrial

or Qualitative)- 80%)                    utilities                            metering - 85%)

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2007                          09/15/2008
Comments       The targets for metering were not reached as the metering campaign slowed
(incl. %       down from 2006-2008. Nevertheless, micro-metering and industrial metering
achievement)   improved in all utilities.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                  Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     04/03/2001          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     12/13/2001          Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                      0.00
  3     04/23/2002          Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                      0.00
  4     06/24/2002          Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                      0.00
  5     09/04/2002          Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                      0.00



                                               iv

  6   02/12/2003        Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory           3.23
  7   04/10/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            3.23
  8   06/25/2003        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            3.71
  9   11/04/2003       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory           4.16
  10  05/17/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            5.62
  11  12/15/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory            9.54
  12  05/20/2005        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           12.55
  13  12/16/2005       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory          17.67
  14  05/15/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    23.46
  15  08/09/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           27.20
  16  01/14/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           38.02
  17  03/29/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           40.58
  18  10/17/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           52.04
  19  05/04/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory           65.15
  20  10/16/2008   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory    71.49



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. PROJECT CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The Water Sector Study prepared jointly by the Russian Government and the Bank in
1996 provided guidance for the content of the Project. The study depicted a continuing
deterioration in the capacity of most of the country's vodokanals to provide reliable and safe
water and wastewater services. The population was also dissatisfied with the quality of services
and worried about safety of the supply, as inadequate water treatment was held responsible for an
increasing number of water-related diseases. The sector study also pointed out that the past
system of central command and control and the government's subsidy policies were in large part
responsible for the disincentives and distortions which have prohibited efficient sector
management and development. Manifestations of this included: (i) poor conditions of facilities
and inefficient operations; (ii) limited incentives for water conservation; (iii) lack of financial
viability; (iv) weak institutions and regulations; and (v) lack of adequate and accurate
information.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators (as approved)

2.      The PDO in the PAD is different from the PDO in the Loan Agreement. At the time of
Project negotiations, the client did not wish to limit the eligibility of cities (in terms of the
number of cities and population size) which could participate in the Project. Therefore, the PDO
in the PAD which read: "to arrest the decline of water and wastewater services of fourteen
medium-size cities (less than 500,000 inhabitants) located in different regions of Russia that
have demonstrated their commitment to the project objectives and the institutional reforms
necessary to achieve them," was revised accordingly to read: "to (a) improve water and
wastewater services in the Participating Cities through investments aimed primarily at
rehabilitating and improving the efficiency of existing water and wastewater systems; and (b)
strengthen the management, financial position, and commercial practices and operations of
Participating Vodokanals," in the Loan Agreement.

3.      The PDO in the Loan Agreement was the one which guided Project implementation
against which progress was measured.

4.      More specifically, at the city level, the project sought to: (a) support the most critical and
immediate investments needed to improve the operation of the water and wastewater systems
while achieving improvement of system operations, reduction of operational costs, improvement
of service quality; and (b) implement a specific set of institutional and commercial reforms
aimed at improving physical system operations and financial performance of vodokanals.

5.      Key performance indicators: Progress towards achieving the development objectives
was to be evaluated on two levels. At the national level, the key performance indicators were: (i)
the number of participating vodokanals able to achieve the financial targets, particularly the
increases in revenue collection and cash collection; and (ii) the number of participating
vodokanals that successfully implement a cost reduction and operational improvement program
(particularly aimed at network and demand management and wastage reduction), the impact of
which was measured based on the improvements to drinking water quality and energy efficiency
as key indicators.

                                                1

6.      At the vodokanal level, each investment had one or more associated output indicator,
depending on the main objective (service quality improvements ­water quality or wastewater
effluent, operational improvement, energy savings, and/or water wastage reduction).
Additionally, as part of the Technical Assistance activities of the Management Strengthening and
Operational Improvement Program, a set of key vodokanal indicators (financial and operational)
were to be defined based on the specific features of each vodokanal and the operational,
institutional, and financial reforms to be implemented.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

7.      The Project Development Objectives were not formally revised over the course of Project
implementation. As mentioned above the PDO as stated in the PAD was not used but the one in
Loan Agreement.

8.      The key performance indicators however were revised to better reflect measurable
outcomes. The set of indicators developed at project design was not complete to measure project
performance against the development objectives.          As such, at mid-term review, the key
performance indicators were reviewed and other indicators which more adequately reflected the
project impact and expected efficiency gains were introduced. The PIU and the WB team then
agreed on the following revised set of indicators to be reported during implementation:

    ·   Working ratio
    ·   Collection cash ratio
    ·   Energy consumption, kWh/m3
    ·   Energy consumption cost, RUR/m3
    ·   Percentage of metered connections
    ·   Percentage of samples per semester that comply with quality standards (%)

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The final beneficiaries of the project were the people and other consumers connected to
the water and wastewater systems of the participating vodokanals. The other intermediate
beneficiaries were the participating vodokanals that received technical assistance support and
physical investment to improve the financial, commercial and operational aspects of their
activities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

10.     The project was originally intended to be implemented over a period of five years (May
2001 ­ December 2005) and included the following three components:

Component 1 - Immediate Investment Program (IIP, USD 54.21M): In each city, a set of high
priority immediate investments were identified, justified, costed and designed by consultants
during project preparation. The IIP for the vodokanals had an original implementation period
generally of no more than two years; and a total cost below the sub-project loan size to allow


                                               2

sufficient resources for the implementation of component 2, the Management Strengthening and
Operational Improvement Program.

Component 2 - Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program (MSOIP,
USD 54.37M): The objective of this component was to implement a specific and well-defined
set of technical and commercial reforms aimed at improving physical system operations and
management and financial performance of vodokanals. The MSOIP was divided into two closely
related sub components.

·    2.1 ­ Technical Assistance (TA) for Implementation of the MSOIP: This sub-component
     financed the consulting services to support:(i) the development and implementation of a new
     governance and commercial system, accounting and financial management system , tariffs
     setting system and metering strategy; and (ii) the identification of investments to improve
     the quality and efficiency of water and wastewater services. Finland, Sweden (SIDA) and
     United Kingdom (DFID) were expected to participate in the financing of this component.
·    2.2 ­ Investment in Support of the MSOIP: This sub-component financed investments
     (goods, works and training) in order to: (i) improve the management of vodokanals; and (ii)
     improve the operational efficiency of the existing systems through implementation of the
     interventions defined under sub-component 2.1. The investments in this category included
     various items generally used with water and wastewater systems like pipes, valves, pumps,
     mechanical and electrical parts, and controls, bulk and block meters, maintenance
     equipment, leak and pressure management equipment, and other equipment.

Component 3 (USD 13.92M) ­ Project Management and Implementation Support:

·    3.1 - Engineering Designs and Bidding Documents: Consultants were to assist each of the
     participating vodokanals in the elaboration of final designs and bidding documents of all
     investments in the MSOIP.       Finland and Sweden were expected to participate in the
     financing of this component.
·    3.2 ­ Supervision of Construction: Consultants were to assist vodokanals in the supervision
     of construction to ensure that the quality of equipment and civil works under both the IIP
     and the MSOIP meet adequate standards of quality and that bills provided by suppliers and
     contractors were correct.
·    3.3 - General Procurement Assistance: Qualified advisors were to assist the National
     Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR) and vodokanals in procurement actions to ensure
     compliance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and the Bank's Guidelines. The
     advisors would also be responsible for training the staff in the NFHR and in various
     vodokanals in handling procurement. This component was financed by Sweden (SIDA).
·    3.4 - Project Implementation Arrangements: The NFHR was to be responsible for managing
     and supervising the project. The NFHR was to be the main link with the Bank and fully
     responsible for ensuring that the project was implemented efficiently in accordance with the
     provisions of the Loan Agreement.

1.6 Revised Components

11.     In 2003, component 2 (Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement
Program) and sub-components 3.2 and 3.3 (Supervision of Construction and General


                                               3

Procurement Assistance respectively) were discontinued and funds in the sum of USD 53.91M
were reallocated to Component 1. Component 2 was discontinued after the first phase of sub-
component 2.1 i.e. the TA financed by DFID was completed because of insufficient attention
from the Government to co-finance the studies and also limited interest for the TA by the
vodokanals upon completion of the first phase. Moreover, the investments planned under sub-
component 2.2 could be carried out under component 1 so the Loan funds originally earmarked
for this component were then utilized under Component 1. Sub-components 3.2 and 3.3 were
discontinued after the SIDA financed contracts were completed due to the fact that the Russian
law mandates that construction supervision be carried out by local firms and procurement
assistance for NFHR was not needed since NFHR was fully skilled and knowledgeable of World
Bank procedures having implemented other World Bank projects prior to this one. A Country
Procurement Assessment was done in January 2001 verifying the procurement capacity.

12.     At the mid-term review in April 2005, both the Bank's team and NFHR agreed that the
Project Development Objectives were still valid and could be achieved in full despite the
discontinuation of component 2 and sub-components 3.2 and 3.3. The implementation of the
activities under component 1 would satisfactorily achieve the PDO. It was also decided that
formal revision of the Project components was not needed since the PDO was not affected and
components 2 and 3 of the Project were partially implemented. But, in retrospect, since only
limited improvements were realized in terms of vodokanal management practices including cost
recovery, operation and maintenance, participatory management, resulting in only partial
achievement of the PDOs, had the PDOs in fact been revised during the mid-term review, it is
possible that the final project results would have been fully satisfactory.

1.7 Other significant changes

13.     The composition of participating vodokanals changed dramatically during project
preparation and implementation. Only six vodokanals of the originally appraised fourteen had
actually signed Sub-loan Agreements with the Russian Ministry of Finance (MOF).              The
remaining eight vodokanals failed to obtain the required guarantees from their municipalities and
regions and were therefore dropped from the Project. In 2003 NFHR in collaboration with the
WB team managed to identify and appraise 12 more vodokanals and by the end of 2003, the
number of Sub-loan Agreements signed reached 18 bringing the total of the committed Loan
funds to about USD 110 million. However, for various reasons, such as inability to obtain the
regional guarantees, high level of co-financing needed and political changes in the respective
municipalities, five vodokanals from the original group, including Votkinsk vodokanal left the
Project. The final number of participating vodokanals in the Project was thirteen (13).

14.     Delays in obtaining and securing participating vodokanals naturally resulted in delays in
project implementation. In addition, new vodokanal entrants took up to two years to prepare or
update the necessary design and bidding documentation which explains the need for two
extensions of the original Loan Closing Date for this Project to December 31, 2008.

15.     Components 2 and 3 of the project have been implemented only in part. See section 1.6
above for explanation.

16.     In March 2006, approximately USD 37 million was reallocated from disbursement
category `Goods' to disbursement category `Works' to comply with the actual procurement

                                                4

profile. Since components 2 and sub-components 3.2 and 3.3 were discontinued, the remaining
budget allocated for the related activities was reassigned to component 1. Component 1 involved
the procurement of primarily `works' hence the need for the disbursement reallocation.

17.     Despite this reallocation, two cancellations for portions of the Loan proceeds were
required, both times in view of diminishing prospects for having the full Loan amount utilized,
because in the limited Project implementation period, it was not possible for all funds to be fully
disbursed under component 1. In total, the Loan Amount was reduced by about USD 43.4
million (more than 35% of its original amount).

18.     Between December 31, 2008, and January 1, 2009, there was a change in the
implementing entity. Up to the closing date, the Project was implemented by a project
management unit called the Foundation for National Housing Reform (NFHR) but from January
1, 2009, all implementation responsibilities for the Project were to be taken over by the Ministry
of Regional Development of the Russian Federation. Signatories were only authorized in April
2009 to handle the Project related business and the Ministry of Regional Development proceeded
with the contract for the final audit at that time. It was expected that the audit would be financed
from the Loan proceeds. Therefore, in May 2009, a retroactive extension of the closing date of
the Project from December 31, 2008 to April 30, 2009 was obtained for the sole purposes of the
completion of the final audit of the Project and to facilitate the corresponding payment for this
audit. This was approved on an exceptional basis because (i) the Ministry of Regional
Development did not have funds in its budget to finance this audit; (ii) there were complicated
budgetary and legal issues to obtain additional resources for this audit; and (iii) the Bank rules
allow the financing of the final audit only if the contract was signed prior to the closing date and
the audit contract was signed in April 2009. Two additional months as a grace period for
disbursements related only to the audit were also granted until June 30, 2009.



2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.     The project's objectives were consistent with the Government's development priorities
and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No: 19897-RU, December 1, 1999).
Given the situation of the water sector and in most of the country's vodokanals including limited
new investments, deteriorating stock of infrastructure, poor operations and maintenance as well
as weak financial performance of vodokanals, the Project was to follow a two-pronged approach
to improvement of utility operations ­ on one hand, the rehabilitation of a limited number of
existing key elements of operational infrastructure; and on the other hand, the implementation in
parallel of well-defined and critical changes in the governance, financial and managerial aspects
of the vodokanals through technical assistance support. The CAS for the period 2000-2001
reconfirmed the need for essential rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure particularly
that needed to address critical health and environmental problems such as that posed by limited
access to drinking water and pollution of water resources.

20.     The Project design incorporated lessons learnt from previous Bank involvement in
water and sanitation projects. At the time of project preparation, the Bank's involvement in
water and sanitation projects in transition countries was limited.         Nevertheless, significant

                                                 5

attempts were made to take these lessons into account and take upfront actions to have the right
enabling environment including (i) securing the commitment of the beneficiary vodokanal and
the local and regional government to the project's financial reform objectives up front, i.e., basic
decisions on adequate tariffs to be in place prior to inclusion of a vodokanal in negotiations and
for the sub-project to become effective; (ii) agreeing on the project cost and loan amount on the
basis of a realistic assessment of the vodokanal's financial capacity, particularly after the 1998
financial crisis, and given the level of tariffs that municipal authorities considered to be socially
acceptable for their constituents; (iii) clear understanding and full agreement of the municipal
authorities and vodokanal managers on the Immediate Investment Program; (iv) provision of
technical assistance to the vodokanals to identify, design and implement mandatory programs of
institutional strengthening and facilities rehabilitation and efficiency improvements; (v) building
of a strong project implementation capacity early on through the creation of a project
implementation unit at NFHR staffed with a core group of experienced Russian specialists that
have been fully involved, from the early stages, in all aspects of the preparation of the project;
(vi) completion of bidding packages for the first year of investments and hiring of consultants for
preparation of bidding packages for the entire Immediate Investment Program by Board
presentation; and (vi) procurement for first-year investments, preparation of draft bidding
documents for the majority of the Immediate Investment Program, as well as the hiring of the
key consultants by the time of project effectiveness.

21.     There were some shortcomings in Project design. The project's design was demanding
and complex in that it implied: (i) financial viability of vodokanals to co-finance investments up-
front and take out sub-loans; (ii) readiness/ability of vodokanals, local and regional government
to undertake several sweeping reforms simultaneously and (iii) a fundamental change in
"mindset" and institutional culture regarding vodokanal/utility management.               This was
manifested in the project design and the key performance indicators as vodokanals were
expected to achieve financial targets, particularly increases in revenue collection and cash
collection and at the same time successfully implement cost reduction and operational
improvement      programs     (particularly   demand    management      and   wastage    reduction).
Implementation of the latter set of measures can contradict the achievement of the former if
attempted simultaneously. Moreover, the expectation of producing significant impacts in terms
of institutional and commercial reforms of vodokanals over a period of five years while the basic
stock of infrastructure was in dire need of rehabilitation and retrofitting was unrealistic.
Vodokanals at the time were focusing on day-to-day operations and emergency works and
probably rightfully so. Fortunately, this was recognized to a certain extent during project
implementation and the key performance indicators were revised in line with more realistic
outcomes.

22.     The Project design did not adequately take into consideration VAT and this had a severe
impact in Project implementation, since funding for VAT was not planned at the time of
appraisal. This required a substantial increase of counterpart funds/co-financing to finance the
VAT of all civil works, goods and consultant contracts. As a result, several vodokanals had to
either reduce their planned investment programs (e.g. Gagarin and Cheboksary) or were no
longer able to participate in the Project and withdrew (such as Nakhodka and Kansk).

23.     Sufficient consideration was given to environmental and social issues and safeguards.
The Project was screened and classified as category B in accordance with the Bank's Operational
Policies. A review of potential environmental impacts associated with the investments was

                                                 6

carried out during the project preparation for each of the participating Vodokanals with the
assistance of foreign consultants. This was complemented by sub-project specific environmental
management plans (EMPs). The project was not anticipated to have significant negative
environmental effects and would not result in any involuntary resettlement or land acquisition
since it focuses on rehabilitation of existing network and facilities. Moreover, it was anticipated
that the Project would have a positive environmental impact as it would result in improved
drinking water quality; improved quality of wastewater released after treatment and better
handling of solid and liquid wastes as well as reduction in the use of chemicals and better
handling of water treatment residuals and reduced risk of sewage spills.

24.      Project preparation and the process of declaring the Loan effective were too long.
Preparation of the project started in 1997. The Loan Agreement for this project was negotiated
in summer 2000, approved by the Bank Board of Directors on December 21, 2000 and declared
effective on September 13, 2002.             The lengthy preparation period was largely due to (i)
demanding selection conditions to be met upfront; (ii) geographical spread of candidate-
vodokanals (the original set of 17 vodokanals covered an area stretching from Leningrad Oblast
to North Caucasia and to the Far East of Russia); and (iii) consequences of a severe 1998
financial crisis in Russia which required financial re-evaluation of the borrower-vodokanals and
of respective sub-projects many of which by that time had already been in place. The crisis also
contributed to a 21 month-long delay between the Board Approval and Project effectiveness in
which time the Government of Russia reviewed its lending priorities and adjusted the complex
sub-loan arrangements to comply with the post crisis realities.

25.      In the wake of the 1998 crisis, the Government of Russia undertook to tighten the
budgetary discipline in the country. A version of the Russian Budget Code enacted in 2002
banned the Federation Subjects with outstanding arrears to the Federal Budget from not only
taking loans but also from issuing loan guarantees in favor of third parties. This new regulation
had the most dramatic impact on the Project as the majority of vodokanals appraised by then
turned out to be located in Federation Subjects with outstanding arrears and therefore deprived of
the right to extend guarantees. As a result, 8 out of 14 vodokanals had to leave the Project after
it was declared effective.

2.2 Implementation Stage (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review,
Project at Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable):

The main factors which affected implementation are as follows:

26.      Changes in the Enabling Environment. Considerable changes took place both in the
sector and in Russia's economy in the course of project implementation. On a macroeconomic
level the country saw marked changes. For example, Russia's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in
nominal terms increased from RUR 13.2 trillion in 2003 to almost RUR 33 trillion in 2007.1
The water sector benefited from the country's economic upswing in that the budgetary support
for the investment needs of vodokanals has somewhat increased. Also the steadily rising level of
personal and household income in Russia contributed to the improved collections, cash
collections in particular.



1In real terms the GDP level of 2003 is expected to be doubled by end 2009.

                                                       7

27.     The legal framework of the water sector in Russia also underwent serious changes. In
2003 the State Duma of the Russian Federation passed a Federal Law `On the General Principles
of Organizing Local Self-Governance in the Russian Federation' by which responsibilities of
local (municipal) administrations and water enterprises in providing water services were clearly
delineated. In late 2004 a package of the so called housing laws was enacted including those of
paramount importance for the sector such as `The Housing Code,' `The Urban Planning Code'
and the Law `On the Principles of Tariff Regulation for Communal Enterprises.' The impact of
the latter was particularly significant as it established a uniform tariff setting paradigm for the
Russian water sector and introduced centralized multilevel tariff regulation system across the
country. In July 2005 yet another law - `On Concession Agreements' set the legal ground for
leasing out publicly owned communal infrastructure to private sector companies.

28.     In May 2003 a first Russian national-level private operator ­ The Russian Communal
Systems (RCS) - entered the sector to be shortly followed by more private companies such as
Rosvodokanal, Eurasian Water Partnership, Novogor-Prikamye and others. According to the
State Committee for Housing and Construction Policy (Rosstroi), the 2004 turnover in the sector
was over USD 31 billion, of which private operators supplied almost 20 percent. In 2007 private
sector companies were present in more than 40% of Russia's 8,800 vodokanals.

29.     Difficulties with Sub-loan Agreements. Some of the sub-loans were cancelled by the
Ministry of Finance because of the inability of those vodokanals to secure city and regional-level
guarantees. In addition, difficulties in re-confirming the guarantees were also encountered in
participating vodokanals who had already established or were in the process of establishing
management or lease agreements with private water companies, particularly Tambov, Berezniki
and Rostov.

30.     Inconsistent ownership of the project. There was considerable doubt as to the interest in
- and ownership of - the Bank loan in early implementation. There were also delays in Russian
co-financing of operational expenditures. An important challenge was therefore to ascertain the
extent of interest amongst different stakeholders in the project and their willingness to embark on
a reform program. This partly contributed to (i) very slow implementation through to 2004; and
(ii) long periods of low levels of committed funds requiring rationalization and cancellation of
loan funds in the amounts of USD 33.6M in March 2006 and USD 9.8M in November 2007
respectively.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

31.     The set of indicators developed at project design was not complete to measure project
performance against the development objectives.          As such, at mid-term review, the key
performance indicators were reviewed and other indicators which more adequately reflected the
project impact and expected efficiency gains were introduced. The PIU and the WB team then
agreed on the following revised set of data to be reported during implementation:

    ·   Volume of water produced, million m3/year
    ·   Volume of water sold, million m3/year
    ·   Cost of vodokanal operation and management, RUR/year
    ·   Cost of Energy, RUR/year


                                                8

    ·   Revenue billed, RUR/year
    ·   Cash collected, RUR/year
    ·   Water consumption per capita, millions m3/year
    ·   Number of samples required and passed a year
    ·   Total number and number of metered connections year end

On the basis of these data, the following indicators were calculated and reported:

    ·   Working ratio
    ·   Collection cash ratio
    ·   Energy consumption, kWh/m3
    ·   Energy consumption cost, RUR/m3
    ·   Percentage of metered connections
    ·   Percentage of samples per semester that comply with quality standards (%)

Some additional indicators were also measured by the PIU since the data was available
including:
    ·   Unaccounted for water, %
    ·   Water consumption, lpcd

32.     These indicators were diligently recorded and regularly reported to the World Bank.
They were reviewed and discussed at every supervision visit. Unfortunately however the
indicators were used primarily for measuring and reporting to the WB implementation progress
and not used as effectively as a tool to help vodokanals transition to more cost-effective and
efficient operations. It is important to note however that the measurement of these indicators
were in itself a significant accomplishment since these factors were not being systematically
tracked prior to the implementation of this Project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

33.     During the project preparation a review of potential environmental impact of the
proposed investments was carried out for each of the participating vodokanals and
Environmental Management Monitoring plans (EMMPs) were prepared and approved. The
control of the EMMPs performance at the stage of bidding documents approval has been carried
out by PIU ­ NFHR - and at the stage of contracts realization ­ by municipalities.

34.     The main impacts to be mitigated were 1) excavated materials, construction debris; 2)
vegetation disturbance; and 3) nuisance during construction. As such, the contract documents
included provisions for mitigation measures and/or avoidance and in accordance with the signed
contracts, the Contractors were responsible for keeping work sites pollution-free, returning sites
to their original conditions, and minimizing dust, noise and other work-related nuisances. They
were also responsible for submission of information with regard to discovery of historical and
cultural assets (if any) during the execution of works or for notification of any problem which
may arise. Water quality monitoring in a water body, prevention of water leaks etc. was carried
out by vodokanals and sub-contractors as part of their regular functions.




                                               9

35.     Overall management and supervision of the project was the responsibility of the Rosstroi
of the Russian Federation; while day-to-day implementation and administration of the project
was executed on behalf of Rosstroi by the National Foundation for Housing Reform (NFHR).
The Foundation is a Russian non-profit organization that is supervised by a Council comprising
the representatives of the key ministries responsible for managing Bank projects in the
communal services sector. The NFHR served as the project implementation unit and was
responsible for all aspects of Project administration, management and coordination, including
financial management, accounting, audits, procurement, disbursement, implementation progress
reporting. In addition, an inter-ministerial committee was created by the Government including
representatives of the MOF, the Ministry of Economy, the State Committee for Environmental
Protection, and the State Committee for Housing and Construction Policy (Rosstroi), to be
responsible for the overall direction and strategic oversight of the Project. The MOF was
responsible for the financial aspects of the Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee Agreements, and for
monitoring, jointly with Rosstroi, the financial position of the vodokanals.

36.     Each vodokanal sub-project was governed by a Subsidiary Loan and Guarantee
Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with MOF, Rosstroi, the NFHR and the participating
vodokanals and Oblast and municipal governments as signatories. The vodokanals were in effect
the borrowing entities. Oblast and municipal governments provided loan guarantees to the MOF.
During project implementation each participating vodokanal was to maintain a Local Project
Implementation Unit (LPIU) with qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank to lead and supervise the implementation of its sub-project and to provide the primary
liaison point for the NFHR. LPIUs were staffed with existing vodokanal specialists.

37.     In December 2003, the inter-ministerial committee was discontinued. This decision
proved to be satisfactory in removing some of the implementation bottlenecks and delays
without compromising compliance with all Bank safeguard and fiduciary requirements and
remained in place until Project completion.

38.     The Project design did not adequately take into consideration VAT and this had a severe
impact in Project implementation, since funding for VAT was not planned at the time of
appraisal. This required a substantial increase of counterpart funds/co-financing to finance the
VAT of all civil works, goods and consultant contracts, equivalent to about USD 40 million,
since the IBRD loan and the SIDA grant eligible percentage were to cover only the net amount
of expenditures after deducting the VAT. As a result, several vodokanals had to either reduce
their planned investment programs (e.g. Gagarin and Cheboksary) or were no longer able to
participate in the Project and withdrew (such as Nakhodka and Kansk).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

39.     There are several challenges for the government of the Russian Federation for the post-
completion phase of the project:

 a) Provide additional support for rehabilitation of water supply and wastewater systems.
     Since the project only included priority/emergency works in 13 vodokanals, many parts of
     the systems in these vodokanals as well as the systems in other vodokanals are still in need
     of upgrade and rehabilitation. In addition, without reliable water and wastewater services, it


                                              10

    will be difficult to implement any tariff reforms and consumers will likely not find tariff
    increases acceptable.

 b) Review cost recovery for water supply and wastewater services provision. The financial
    sustainability of the vodokanals is still precarious and efforts are needed to ensure that these
    water utilities are able to fully cover their operating costs. Investments programs including
    financing options also need to be more systematically developed.

 c) Review and continue institutional and policy reform for water supply and wastewater
    services provision. Further reform of the sector is needed including the introduction of a
    more appropriate regulatory framework coupled with stronger public institutions and sector
    management.

 d) Introduce performance ratings and consumer satisfaction into water supply and
    wastewater services provision. Consumer opinion and feedback needs to be more
    systematically included into the decision-making processes at vodokanals as well as in
    relation to the planned reform of the sector. Further training for vodokanal personnel with
    respect to customer service, communications and media relations and sector best practices is
    needed. Some support to apply the training to local conditions in the daily operations would
    also need to follow.

 e) Review the implementation of sector reform through a Project Implementation Unit. The
    experience of implementing the Project through NFHR i.e. a PIU, although an appropriate
    arrangement at the time and largely shielded from excessive political influences, illustrates
    the dangers of limited connectivity to central government as well as limited institutional
    capacity development for the central government. Either an implementation unit within
    Rosstroi or a dedicated Rosstroi staff seconded to NFHR could have been alternatives for
    consideration.

40.     Likelihood of another operation. It is unlikely that a similar operation will follow due
to (a) accelerated decentralization and transfer of the water services solely to the municipal level;
(b) diminished role and subsequent abolishment of Rosstroi, the line ministry in charge at the
central government level for communal services; and (c) direct access to commercial financing
by most of the vodokanals.

3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

41.     The Project's objectives remain relevant to and consistent with the current sector needs.
The situation in the water sector and in most of the country's vodokanals still presents many
issues and challenges. New investments are limited, maintenance is normally delayed, sector
infrastructure continues to deteriorate and the financial performance, despite considerable
increases in tariffs, is still largely unstable.2 It can be argued that the design was overly



2According to KPIs collected by NFHR the domestic tariffs in 11 out 13 project vodokanals have at least tripled
between 2002 and 2007 with the growth rate of the other two being over 2.5 for the same period.

                                                    11

ambitious in its geographic scope and reform targets. The assessment of implementation has
been discussed in section 2.2 above.

42.     The 2007-2009 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, Report No. 37901-RU, November 20,
2006) for the Russian Federation reflects some new conditions. Prior to the global financial
crisis, it was expected that new borrowing by the federal government would be quite limited,
whereas the use of guarantees, sub-national borrowing and new fee-for-service arrangements for
investment and policy advice would likely grow. As such, the CPS incorporates supporting
investments in priority areas at the regional level including municipal infrastructure.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

43.     The Project has contributed reasonably towards arresting the decline of water and
wastewater services of medium-size cities located in different regions of Russia. Although many
obstacles and difficulties were encountered during the implementation of the Project, it is clear
that the project supported essential building blocks in moving the selected vodokanals towards
sustainable water sector management and development. Following from the specifics of the
Project development objectives, the following observations have been made:

 (a)    There was strong support for the most critical and immediate investments needed to
        improve the operation of the water and wastewater systems. Commitment for the
        implementation of activities under Component 1 was unwavering. The most notable
        achievements include: (i) improvements in efficiency of pump stations and energy
        efficiency (Vologda, Volkhov, Rostov, Novocherkassk, Cheboksary, Gagarin, Taganrog);
        (ii) improvement of service quality and reduction of water losses (Rostov, Vologda,
        Pechora, Novocherkassk, Cheboksary, Pskov, Kungur, Chernushka); (iii) improvements
        in potable water quality (Rostov, Kungur, Gagarin, Taganrog); and (iv) reduction of
        untreated wastewater discharge and improvement of wastewater treatment (Ufa, Bryansk,
        Taganrog, Pechora). Further details are presented in Annex 10.

 (b)    There was limited improvement of system operations, reduction of operational costs and
        improvement of service quality. The Vodokanals remain technically oriented companies
        with limited communication between the technical and financial departments. Despite the
        fact that performance indicators were implemented in all participating Vodokanals and
        were regularly reported to the World Bank and the Government, they were not
        sufficiently used as a practical tool for programs of cost reduction, improvement of
        service quality or for establishing mid- and long-term development plans. In addition, the
        tariff system which is based on costs also discouraged cost-reduction actions since these
        may have resulted in tariff reductions.

 (c)    There were some improvements related to institutional and commercial reforms aimed at
        improving physical system operations and financial performance of vodokanals. The
        larger vodokanals from regional centers (Briansk, Rostov, Ufa and Vologda) who had
        more financial and human resources were able to gain sufficient institutional and
        commercial reform experience under this Project. This then helped them to develop their
        own investment projects financed by external sources as a direct follow-up to this Project.



                                               12

3.3 Efficiency

44.     The implementation program consisted of a total of 70 sub-projects which were
implemented across 13 cities. Sub-project profiles were classified into four major categories: (i)
reduction of operation costs ­ 27 percent, (ii) reduction of unaccounted losses of potable water ­
16 percent, (iii) reduction of discharge of poorly treated and untreated wastewater ­ 35 percent
and (iv) overall improvement of the services quality, including water quality uninterrupted water
supply, pressure in the water system and improved collection of wastewater ­ 23 percent.

45.     Implementation progress was not even throughout the life of project implementation. The
majority of the disbursements (about 60 percent of the project funds) were disbursed in July
2007- June 2008. However, the average implementation period per contract weighted by the
value of the contract was 217 days, which is acceptable considering the type of the contracts and
seasonal nature of the construction season in Russia.

46.     All investments were implemented as part of the immediate investment program i.e.
component 1 of the loan. Despite the emergency nature of some contracts, all investments were
pre-screened for financial and technical viability as well as for affordability by the vodokanals.
The economic analysis was conducted for a sample of contracts which is representative of the
four project investment types (as above). It confirmed that the Project investments are
economically viable and financially sustainable. The internal rate of return (IRR) for the
investments varies from 11 percent for the water treatment projects to approximately 21 percent
for energy efficiency, and are even higher if the Project intervention also included a reduction of
the non-revenue water.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

47.     It is clear that this was an important project for the Russian Federation but the project was
also an ambitious one to be undertaken at the time, particularly as it relates to the targets for
institutional and commercial reforms. The main reasons for the Moderately Satisfactory overall
outcome rating include the following commendable achievements on the one hand: (i) successful
implementation of priority investments in 13 vodokanals thereby improving physical operations
and service provision performance; (ii) improved efficiency outcomes through replacement of
key machinery such as pumps; and (iii) environmental benefits through improved wastewater
treatment. While on the other hand; (iv) the Project was rated satisfactory for about 60 percent
of the implementation period; and (v) only limited improvements were realized in terms of
progress on component 2 of the Project in particular, vodokanal management practices including
cost recovery, operation and maintenance, participatory management, resulting in only partial
achievement of the PDOs.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




                                                13

There are no direct relevant gender aspects or poverty impacts.               A Social Impact
Assessment carried out in May ­ July 2008 found overall the Project had positive results. The
findings are further detailed in Section 3.6.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-
term capacity and institutional development):

The institutional change/strengthening is deemed to be moderate. This is based on the
following:

  ·  Vodokanals now have strengthened capacity with respect to the requirements and
     processing steps related to the preparation and contracting of investments as well as
     construction supervision. These activities were previously performed by other government
     agencies, often with little consultation and interaction with the vodokanals. Vodokanal
     personnel also received training in financial management and procurement procedures for
     World Bank financed projects which is generally applicable to sources of external
     financing.

  ·  Select vodokanal personnel participated in study tours to the UK, Sweden, Spain and
     Portugal to learn about modern methods of utility management and operations, planning
     and engineering, commercial management and finance.

  ·  Limited uptake by the vodokanals of the technical assistance provided under component 2
     (Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program, MSOIP).               The
     MSOIP was designed to give the vodokanal experts, the support of international
     consultants and the resources needed to understand the existing shortcomings of their
     facilities' operations as well as training with respect to costing investment choices and
     investment prioritization.

  ·  The majority of the vodokanals remain overstaffed, technically oriented entities with
     insufficient concern for efficiency, cost recovery and other related commercial
     management practices.

(c)    Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

  ·  Capacity strengthening of vodokanals extended beyond utility management.              By
     participating in the project, vodokanals developed more structured and comprehensive
     approaches to project planning, design, preparation and implementation.

  ·  Experience in working with IFIs extended beyond the Borrower. It was not just the
     NFHR and the participating vodokanal personnel who gained experience in preparation of
     tender documentation in compliance with international standards, but, also, the local
     contractors and consulting firms who submitted tenders. As a result, their experience and
     skills were enhanced allowing them to be more competitive in the local, national and
     international markets.




                                              14

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

48.     A social assessment was conducted in May-July 2008. The main objective was to assess
the social and economic outcomes of the Projects from the point of view of achievement of the
project objectives, interests and needs of the key stakeholders. The main conclusions are as
follows:

49.     Implementation of the large-scale `pilot' was too dispersed to generate adequate
impact. The implementation of such a large-scale Project with so many participating cities did
not have the anticipated effect on the communal services sector.            However, the Project
participants received good and useful experience in implementing investment projects, including
necessary skills for business planning and management. The gained experience enables the city
administrations and their communal sector companies to better evaluate the possible effects and
outcomes of other potential projects implementation and to develop more clearly a strategy for
the reform and development of the housing and communal sector in future.

50.     Outlook of the participating vodokanal personnel changed.            Vodokanal personnel
expressed interest to continue the communal services modernization subject to availability of
appropriate financing. Effects observed included a change in the psychology and mentality of the
personnel, in particular, in terms of necessity of the energy efficiency efforts. In addition, the
local administrations and vodokanals developed improved skills for business planning and
preparation of feasibility studies and tender documents such that they feel more comfortable with
preparing projects whether to be financed from public money or from other financial
organizations, including international ones.

51.     Impressions of service quality improved. The level of awareness about the Project
activities and support from the local citizens was rather high, even though the local
administrations and/or vodokanals did not necessarily undertake any special information
campaigns. It was confirmed that as a result of the physical improvements to the water supply
network, the quality of water improved which helped to decrease existing social tensions caused
by the different levels of water quality among different urban districts. The construction of
sewage collectors lead to a decrease of accident rates and facilitated the connection of additional
urban districts to these collectors. Following completion of the physical works, complaints from
the population decreased and vodokanals became more efficient in reacting to and resolving the
accident situations. At the same time, the survey results noted that the Project would have
accomplished even more positive impact on the population's wellbeing if it focused not only on
rehabilitation and construction of "external" water supply and sewage networks, but included
rehabilitation of the internal building plumbing systems. It is important to note however that the
latter systems generally do not fall within the purview of the vodokanals.

4. RATIONALE FOR RATING OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

Rating: Moderate

52.     While good progress has been made under the Project, there are a few risks identified at
completion, which may threaten the long-term sustainability of the Project's impacts unless
appropriate mitigation measures are put in place. These risks are:


                                               15

 a) Need for further support for vodokanals. The vodokanals are in the initial stages of
     transformation to autonomous entities and therefore need additional training and capacity
     building relating to administrative and fiduciary management (budgeting and accounting) as
     well as investment planning and further support for technological advancements in the water
     supply and wastewater services sector. The TA planned under the project for which there
     was limited interest in the early stages of Project implementation remains valid and needed.

 b) Need for regulation and facilitation by the Ministry of Regional Development. As the
     responsibilities for water supply and wastewater services provision are being decentralized
     to municipalities and vodokanals, the role of the Ministry of Regional Development with
     respect to the vodokanals needs to be oriented more towards planning, facilitation and
     monitoring. In the area of planning, the Ministry of Regional Development needs to: (i) have
     responsibility for overall policy and inter-ministerial coordination for sector development
     and management; (ii) develop appropriate tariff structures in collaboration with the
     vodokanals; and (iii) assist with the prioritization of investments in the sector. In the areas of
     facilitation and monitoring, Rosstroi needs to: (i) facilitate collaboration and exchange of
     experiences among Vodokanals; (ii) provide technical and financial oversight of
     vodokanals; and (iii) monitor plans for future development and expansion.


5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending
phase):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

53.     While the Bank team understood well the problems that exist in the water supply and
wastewater services sub-sector in the Russian Federation, and tried to design a Project to
improve the operational performance of the sub-sector, project preparation took too long ­
almost 5 years elapsed between the approval of the Project Concept and the approval of the
Project by the Board. Agreements among institutions and stakeholders, as well as political and
enabling environment circumstances tend to change during such a long period.

54.     The burden of both sub-loan and co-financing arrangements for vodokanals which were
at the core of the Project design should have been more carefully considered and their impacts on
implementation progress better analyzed by the Bank team in consultation with stakeholders. In
addition, several reviews by all stakeholders including the Ministry of Finance were required
before investments could proceed. A less complicated institutional arrangement and investment
approval process would also have helped to limit implementation delays.

55.     The Bank should also have been less ambitious in terms of (i) number of sub-loans and
investments contracts; (ii) targets for cost recovery of operation and maintenance; (iii) targets for
improved utility management; and (iv) institutional and reform objectives within a 5-year period.


                                                16

56.     The Project Appraisal Document states that "one of the main lessons is that poor quality
of entry often results in unrealistic expectations and overly optimistic projections with the result
that many projects fall short of meeting the institutional and financial development targets of
these projects". It is therefore ironic that this is exactly the result now that implementation is
completed and even more difficult to understand why the project design was so ambitious and
complex.

(b)     Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):

Rating: Satisfactory

57.     The quality of supervision is rated satisfactory overall.       In terms of the different
supervision dimensions, such as Focus on Development Effectiveness, Supervision of
Fiduciary/Safeguards Aspects, and Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes, these are also
rated Satisfactory while Candor and Quality of ISRs are rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

58.     Given the large "pilot" and complex nature of Project design, as well as the numerous
external changes which took place during the implementation period, intense supervision and
follow up by the Bank was required. The Bank undertook regular supervision (and more frequent
supervision when needed) including field visits, spot checks of investments and reform dialogue.
Critical problems and bottlenecks were identified as early as possible and solutions sought in
collaboration with the NFHR. The mid-term review was used to restructure the Project as best as
possible at the time.

59.     The strengths of the supervision performance include: (i) a proactive supervision team,
well balanced in skills between HQ and the field, and with substantive experience in improving
water utility performance; (ii) adequate emphasis given to visits to individual water utilities,
which were widely dispersed geographically, in order to strengthen ownership; (iii) initiative and
flexibility in identifying and accepting new water utilities into the Bank program by amending
loan terms to allow on-lending and by adopting a more programmatic approach; (iv) attention
given to training through visits to Western European utilities. In general, the supervision team
had a good measure of practicality and continuity and the impact of the Team's supervision effort
was considerable despite the challenges.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.     The Bank's overall performance is rated as moderately satisfactory because though the
Bank team was continuously engaged throughout Project preparation and implementation and
demonstrated good professionalism, there was still the need to cancel 35 per cent of the loan
funds and only very limited progress was made on the reform aspects of the project (i.e.,
Component 2) which accounted for almost 50 per cent of the loan funds. It is also important to
note that the collaboration between the Bank and the Borrower, particularly NFHR has been
valuable and critical for the Project's final achievements. In addition, the assistance and co-
financing received from the governments of Sweden and the United Kingdom respectively
greatly helped with the preparatory studies and technical assistance concerning the reform of the

                                               17

vodokanals. The government of the United Kingdom funded one third (USD 11.98M) of the
total Project preparation costs on a grant basis. The government of Sweden funded USD 2M for
engineering and project preparation in the cities of the Baltic Sea catchment area as well as for
general procurement assistance.

5.2 Borrower


(a)     Government Performance:


Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

61.     The Borrower including Rosstroi, Ministry of Finance, municipalities and vodokanals
participated actively in Project preparation. They agreed that extensive reform was the only way
to ensure Project sustainability and set the necessary institutional reform process in motion. The
Ministry of Finance also wanted to ensure that the vodokanal's financial situation ensured full
repayment of the sub-loans and hence supported the Project design with respect to the co-
financing and guarantee agreements. However, it took approximately 13 months for the Loan
Agreement to be signed following Board approval and another 6 months to make the Loan
effective.

62.     During the implementation phase, the Borrower continued to be supportive but there
were several issues that caused implementation delays, as stated in Sections 6 and 7.
Nevertheless, gradually lessons were learned and once the relevant changes to the
implementation arrangements were agreed, the Borrower demonstrated its full commitment to
accelerate Project implementation. As such the Government performance is rated as moderately
satisfactory.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

63.     NFHR. The NFHR was responsible for managing and implementing the project. NFHR
was the main link with the Bank and fully responsible for ensuring that the Project was
implemented efficiently in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. NFHR also
served as a key liaison among the vodokanals, municipalities, Rosstroi and Ministry of Finance.
Staffed with fully qualified and motivated professionals, NFHR was very active in carrying out
their various tasks effectively and in proposing solutions when challenges arose. They were
catalytic in achieving the Project's objectives. In addition, appreciation for the work done by
NFHR was strongly expressed by the vodokanals.               Therefore the performance of the
implementing agency is rated as satisfactory. However, it has been observed that Rosstroi relied
completely on NFHR for implementation of this Project and are not fully satisfied with their
performance. In addition, the experience and expertise acquired by NFHR will be lost, if ways
are not found to mainstream their skills and competencies within Rosstroi.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                               18

64.     Several delays and challenges were faced over the life of the project during both the
preparation and implementation phases which raises some doubt at times as to the ownership and
commitment of the Borrower towards achieving the Project's development objectives. While
some of the factors contributing to the challenges experienced over the life of the Project were
clearly outside the Borrower's control, more visible unwavering political will and flexibility on
the part of the Borrower agencies arguably could have helped to further advance Project
implementation, especially with respect to the support for the implementation of the reform
agenda and reducing the magnitude of the loan proceeds which needed to be cancelled. Based on
all of the above, the overall Borrower performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

6. LESSONS LEARNED

The main lessons drawn from the implementation of this Project are the following:

65.     Project objectives should be closely tailored to the capacity of the government and
related agencies to implement the Project and to the conditions of the enabling environment
existing at the time of Project preparation. Therefore, a large 'pilot' project, implemented by a
Borrower with limited experience and know-how concerning water sector reform, as is the case
here should be (i) simple in design including approval processes; (ii) limited in its geographical
scope, reform ambitions and number of investments to simplify implementation and serve as the
first step of a gradual sector reform program; (iii) prepared in a participatory manner with all
relevant agencies involved in the decision-making and approval of the design and (iv):
incorporate a peer-learning process so that the initial participants can form a network to help
sustain sector impacts and share best practices among vodokanals.

66.     Small borrowers pay a relatively large cost to comply with conventional Bank fiduciary
requirements. Costs mandated under the Bank's fiduciary Financial Management System (FMS)
requirements should be related to the economic capacity of the Borrower, specifically in this case
the vodokanals, as well as the size of the sub-projects and the value gained. Some vodokanals
were expected to co-finance investments by as much as 40 percent (including VAT). This was
excessive for many of them and also resulted in some of the smaller vodokanals withdrawing
from the Project, which in the end, diminished the overall value of the Project.

67.     Reform of water supply and wastewater services provision and utility management is a
long and continuous process. To some extent complexity is inherent to the reform process for
the water sector and the reform agenda has gained some momentum under the Project, but this
takes time and it is imperative to be patient and adopt a gradual approach. This is a long and slow
process. Any future Bank water sector projects in the Russian Federation should provide
continuity in sector reforms and build on the positive changes that the first municipal water
supply and wastewater project brought. It is also important to continue to support, monitor the
performance and build the capacity of the vodokanals responsible for services provision. As
mentioned above, a peer-learning process would also assist in this regard.




                                               19

7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

68.     In general, the Borrower is satisfied with the outcomes of the Project and cited benefits
such as prevention of major breakdowns in the networks and other water and wastewater
facilities; improvements to the stability of water and wastewater systems operations; reduction of
energy costs; reduction in pollution by urban wastewater effluents and consequently,
improvements to the reliability and quality of water and wastewater service provision in the
cities which participated in the Project. In addition, Project outcomes have been deemed to be
sustainable.

Other benefits include:

  ·   Experience of the Borrower in conducting business in line with IBRD requirements, in
      particular procurement.     Many of these procedures are now being employed by the
      vodokanals on a regular basis.
  ·   Participation of local construction and design organizations in implementation of water and
      wastewater rehabilitation activities.
  ·   Experience for local companies in bid proposal preparation and bidding documents for
      design, construction, supply and installation contracts.
  ·   Learning for regional and municipal administration from international expertise; some of
      which is being applied in their routine operations.
  ·   Development of proposals to improve performance quality and efficiency based on the
      technical assistance.

69.     A summary of the Borrower's evaluation of the Project is attached at Annex 7 and the
complete Borrower Evaluation is in the Project files.

(b) Cofinanciers: SIDA and DFID had no comments.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders: NA




                                               20

                                  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

                       Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                 (Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)

         Components                Appraisal Estimate         Actual /Latest Estimate          Percentage of
                                      (USD million)3              (USD million)4               Appraisal (%)
1. Immediate Investment                    73.76                     103.16                         140
Program
2. Management                              75.26                        2.27                          3
Strengthening and
Operational Improvement
Program, including
2.1 Technical                               7.88                        2.27                          29
Assistance/training
2.2 Investment Support                     67.39                           -                          0
3. Project Management and                  18.65                        4.44                         24
Implementation Support,
including
3.1 Final Designs and Bidding               8.66                        0.32                          4
Documents.
3.2 Supervision of                          3.74                           -                          0
Construction
3.3 General Procurement                     1.25                        1.00                         80
Assistance*
3.4 NFHR/Project                            5.00                        3.12                         62
Implementation Unit
          Total Baseline Cost             167.68                     109.87                          66
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
           Total Project Costs            167.68                     109.87                          66
Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)
Front-end fee (IBRD only)                   1.22                        1.22                        100
    Total Financing Required              168.90                     111.09                          66


    * Financed by Sweden (SIDA)

(a)     Co-financing

(The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in SAP/AUS; Percentage
of Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)




3Calculated on the basis of PAD data (see tables on pages 7 and 60) with addition of 25% to each line-item to
provide for taxes and duties.
4Represents actually incurred full project costs including loan and borrower financing, and taxes and duties.

                                                        21

                                       Appraisal      Actual/Latest   Percentage of
  Source of Funds  Type of Financing    Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
                                      (USD million)   (USD million)       (%)
[Government]            Loan             45.40          34.97              77
[IBRD/IDA]              Loan            122.50          72.90              60
SIDA (Sweden)           Grant             1.00           1.00             100
           TOTAL                        168.90         107.87              64




                                        22

                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

70.    Component 1 - Immediate Investment Program (IIP).               Over 50 activities were
implemented under this component so only a few of the main investments which are
representative of the various types of investments are described below.

   ·   The danger of emergencies in potable water provision (because the Kizetirinovka water
       pump station was located in the area of active landslip) was eliminated in Rostov-on-
       Don. Rehabilitation and expansion of the pump stations made it possible to close the
       Kizetirinovka water pump station and ensure guaranteed water supply to the city.
       Equipment installed in the rehabilitated pump stations significantly reduced energy costs
       associated with water supply. Rehabilitation of the water treatment plants provided for
       due treatment of water taken from River Don for potable water supply.

   ·   A water pipeline with diameter of 1000 mm constructed to replace the dilapidated water
       lines with diameter of 500 and 700 mm in the city of Novocherkassk has eliminated
       breaks in potable water provision that occurred because of constant emergencies on the
       existing water lines and ensured continuous water supply to the city in adequate volumes
       and at adequate head pressure. Rehabilitation of the 3rd stage pump station provided
       automatic control of water pressure in the urban water network, which has reduced the
       number of breaks in the pressurized distribution network and saved electricity.

   ·   A set of activities implemented in the city of Vologda improved efficiency of pump
       stations operation in maintaining adequate head pressure in water networks, provided for
       metering of water supplied by these pump stations, developed and implemented the
       automated control and information system to transfer data about operation of 12 pump
       stations, introduced information on water flows and pressure in water networks to the
       vodokanal control panel and to control operation of 12 step-up pumping stations
       automatically.

   ·   Rehabilitation of the Sukhorechenskiy water intake in the city of Kungur reduced by 1.5
       times the cost of water extraction and treatment. In addition, the city has eliminated the
       deficit of potable water during spring and autumn flooding; and the number of water
       supply services users has grown. Environmental harm for River Sylva was eliminated.

   ·   A set of activities implemented in the city of Volkhov provided for potable water supply
       in the required volumes and at required head pressure to the Privokzalniy rayon of the
       left-bank area of Volkhov.

   ·   A set of activities implemented in the city of Cheboksary improved efficiency and
       reliability of the 1st stage water pump station; hence, water is supplied without breaks
       throughout the city 24 hours a day.

   ·   The city of Pechora has improved the efficiency of its water supply system in terms of
       maintaining adequate head pressure in water networks and providing consumers with
       required volumes of potable water. The project implementation period was the first stage
       of development of a single centralized water supply system of the city.


                                              23

   ·   After installation of frequency converters on the pump stations, the number of
       breakdowns on water networks in Taganrog has been reduced.

   ·   Commissioning of wastewater collectors has accelerated housing construction rates in the
       city of Bryansk, including development of micro-rayons Slavyanskiy and Aeroport with a
       population of about 100,000.

   ·   A set of activities aimed at rehabilitation of wastewater treatment plants prevented
       discharge of untreated effluents from collectors to the water body and land and has
       improved the quality of treated wastewater discharged to river Desna.

   ·   A set of activities implemented under the Project in the city of Ufa increased the capacity
       of wastewater treatment plants through construction of an additional treatment module
       (No. 3). Wastewater is not discharged to river Belaya untreated anymore; treatment plant
       operation efficiency improved through modernization of mechanic and biological
       treatment technologies; and mechanical dehydration of wastewater sediment and
       reduction of its volume was ensured. Sludge beds potentially threatening with pollution
       of River Belaya were closed and this area will be re-cultivated.

   ·   Special emergency repair machinery was supplied to participating vodokanals in order to
       allow for prompt emergency response, routine repairs, preventive maintenance of urban
       water and wastewater networks.



71.    Component 2 - Management Strengthening and Operational Improvement Program
(MSOIP). The technical assistance provided under phase 1 of implementation of this component
resulted in the following:

   ·   Diagnostic studies in the participating vodokanals and conclusions and recommendations
       regarding further activities aimed at sector reform and development at the federal,
       regional and municipal levels, as well as at the level of vodokanals. Diagnostic study
       findings were used as a basis for preparing over 100 methodological documents. These
       were provided to vodokanals and Rosstroi to help improve vodokanal performance.

   ·   Corporate development plans. It was expected that these plans would help vodokanals to
       initiate the internal processes and procedures of regular annual preparation and adoption
       of corporate development plans.

   ·   Operation and management efficiency improvement plans including activities
       recommended for implementation by vodokanals and city administrations to reform the
       water and wastewater sector.

   ·   Twelve methodical manuals were provided to the vodokanal managers with data on
       modern management methods. Complementary training and skills development was also
       provided. This material is available to all water and wastewater companies in Russia.



                                              24

·  Opportunities to study the operations of similar companies in other cities of the Russian
   Federation and abroad.

Further details on the activities implemented under the Project are in the Project files.




                                          25

                             Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

72.      The implementation program consisted of 70 sub-projects which were implemented in 13
cities. Sub-project profiles were classified into four major categories: (i) reduction of operation
costs ­ 27 percent; (ii) reduction of unaccounted losses of potable water ­ 16 percent; (iii)
reduction of discharge of poorly treated and untreated wastewater ­ 35 percent; and (iv) overall
improvement of the services quality, including water quality, uninterrupted water supply,
pressure in the water system and improved collection of wastewater ­ 23 percent.

73.      All investments were part of the immediate investment program of the loan. The
economic assessment has been carried out for typical representative samples of physical
investments for each category (see below). However due to the emergency nature of some
contracts, all of them were pre-screened for the financial and technical viability as well as for
affordability to the Vodokanals. It confirmed that the Project investments are economically
viable and financially sustainable. The economic rate of return (ERR) and the financial rate of
return (FRR) vary from 11 percent for the water treatment projects to up to 21 percent for the
energy efficiency and even higher if the intervention included reduction of the unaccounted
water.

    (i)        Reduction of operation costs and energy consumption

Cheboksary: Replacement of the pumps at the water intake, contract MWWP-CHB-A1-02-01
(Project cost USD 383,853.67, of which USD 305,032 from the loan)

74.      The objective of this investment project, which was among the first ones included into
the original PAD for the MWWP, was improvement of operation of the raw water intake by
replacing the pumping units, drainage pumps, and valves; installation of air pressure vessels;
rehabilitation of rising mains; and installation of flow meters. The project became fully
operational on September 1, 2005. The project savings are already above USD 70,000 a year and
the estimated ERR for the contract, considering 15 years of operation of the pump is 21 percent.
The original PAD estimate of the ERR for this contract was 16.5 percent.


 Year                  Units      2003      2004     2005     2006     2007     2008   ... 2019
 Water intake per
 year                   000 m3   86,306    84,743    84,876   81,137  77,976   75,000      70,000
 Electricity
 consumption            kWh/m3    0.284    0.283     0.272    0.257   0.260     0.250      0.250
 Electricity
 consumption with
 project                000 kWh  24,511    23,982    23,086   20,852  20,274   19,500      17,500
 Electricity
 consumption without
 project                000 kWh  24,511    24,067    24,105   23,043  22,145   21,300      19,880

 Electricity tariff    RUR/kWh     0.66     0.79      0.73     0.83    0.93     0.93       0.93
 Electricity cost with
 project                000 RUR  16,177    18,967    16,804   17,265  18,871   18,174      16,310
 Electricity cost
 without the project    000 RUR  16,177    19,037    17,572   19,103  20,639   19,852      18,528

 Project savings        000 RUR     -       70        768     1,838   1,768     1,678      2,218

 Project savings         USD        -      2,800     30,736   73,503  70,732   67,104      88,726

 Investment              USD               38,270   345,480


                                               26

 Year                   Units       2003     2004       2005      2006    2007     2008     ... 2019

  Net flow of benefits     USD              (35,470)  (314,744)  73,503  70,732    67,104       88,726

       ERR (%)             21%

       NPV (USD)         217,197


    (ii)       Reduction of unaccounted losses of potable water

Vologda: Reconstruction of the pumping stations and installation of bulk water meters, contract
MWWP-VOL-A1-01C ­ USD 1,979,754.23

75.       The sub-project provided funds for replacement and increase of the efficiency of water
pumping stations which were in the most critical conditions. These 12 pumping stations provide
about 20 percent of water produced by Vologda Vodokanal. The contract included installation of
the bulk water meters at these stations along with the equipment that provided demand adjusted
control of the operation of these pumps.

76.       The combination of these two actions resulted in a substantial reduction of both water
losses and electricity consumption. These factors guarantee the sustainable and efficient
operation of the utility.


 Year                                  2004       2005    2006      2007      2008       2009   ...     2019

 Water intake          000 m3        45,133     47,286  49,223    49,343    49,355      47,000        45,000

 Water billed          000 m3        23,938     23,876  28,315    31,468    30,830      31,000        31,000

 Unaccounted losses                    47%        50%      42%      36%       38%        34%            31%

 Cost of operations    RUR 000       184,320   225,736 285,594   363,204   437,861     450,000        450,000

 Total revenues        RUR 000       197,643   268,144 305,264   443,002   501,114     550,000        550,000

 Profit                RUR 000       13,323     42,408  19,670    79,798    63,253     100,000        100,000

 Profit                     USD      532,920 1,696,320 786,800  3,191,920 2,530,120  4,000,000      4,000,000
 Profit as a result of
 investment                 USD                                 1,495,600  833,800   2,303,680      2,303,680
 Repayment of the
 loan                       USD                                                        118,785        283,765

 FRR                        39%

 NPV                    USD7,518,613

    (iii)      Reduction of the discharges of poorly treated and untreated wastewater:

Ufa: Completion of the construction of the secondary and tertiary treatment units on the right
bank or the Belaya River, contract MWWP-UFA-A1-03 (USD 16.1 million, of which USD 8.5
million from the loan)

77.       The project included completion of the construction of the additional wastewater
treatment line of the Ufa Vodokanal with tertiary treatment. The investment resulted in
significant reduction of discharges from the municipal WWTP due to: (1) elimination of the
discharges of the untreated wastewater (35,000 m3/day), and (2) tertiary treatment of about
75,000 m3/day or one-third of the total collected wastewater.



                                                 27

78.     The benefits of the proposed project include: (i) optimization of the flows treated at the
WWTP of the Ufa Vodokanal; (ii) higher efficiency of operations of the plant with lower
operating costs; (iii) and improved effluent quality and reduced pollution on the Belaya River;
and (iv) reduction of risk of overflow and accidents with consequences to the city of Ufa and its
industrial satellite cities. The investment will result in some increase of the operation costs due to
increased electricity consumption and additional staff. However these costs are substantially
lower than the benefits.

79.     The investment program gives financial gain to the Vodokanal due to reduction of the
environmental penalties. These are paid by the Ufa Vodokanal by RUR 117.6 million a year (or
by USD 4.7 million) thus making the project financially viable with FRR of about 30 percent.

    (iv)    Overall improvement of the services quality, including water quality
            uninterrupted water supply, pressure in the water system and improved
            collection of wastewater:

Kungur: Reconstruction and improvement of operation of the Sukhorchensky Water Intake,
contract MWWP-KUN-A1-03, (USD 587,715.99 of which loan is USD 437,420.82)

80.     The contract financed the expansion of the Sukhorechensky groundwater intake and
closing of the Sylva water intake. The sub-project also focused on improvement of the
Sukhorechensky groundwater intake operations making its treatment technology and
subsequently water quality to the national standard. The increased capacity of the groundwater
intake (from 15,000 m3/day to about 40,000 m3/day) allowed it to achieve all potable water
needs of the municipality and increase coverage with services from 45,000 to about 67,500
people (or from 70 to 100 percent). The rehabilitation allowed closing the old Sylva River water
intake that was providing substandard water and could not operate during spring floods from
April 15 to June 1 due to inability of the water intake to handle excess suspended solids and
pollutants during the spring flood season. Non-monetary economic benefits for the population
include increased services quality, reliability and security. The investment works and subsequent
increased efficiency of the utility operation allowed for reduction in tariffs by 10 percent.

81.     The investment also resulted in cost reduction for the company by at least 25 percent in
2007-2008. The savings came from reduction of electricity consumption by 200,000 kWh a year
(which reached 1,000,000 KWh in 2008) and by reduced use of chemicals (by USD 40,000 a
year). The financial rate of return of these savings for the Kungur Vodokanal is estimated at the
level of 11 percent for the period of 15 years.




                                                28

Year                         2004   2005      2006       2007     2008    2009 ...  2019

Water intake from     000
Sukhorechencky       m3    15,000 15,000  15,000     25,000    40,000  40,000      40,000
Water intake from     000
Sylva                m3    26,000 22,000  20,000     20,000      -        -          -
                     000
Energy consumption   kWh   6,653  6,265   5,978       5,600    4,900    4,900      4,900
                      RUR
Energy cost          000   9,223  9,685   9,836       9,101    8,800    8,800      8,800
                      RUR
Chemicals savings    000                              941       941     941         941
                      RUR
Total savings        000     -      -       -         1,676    1,977    1,977      1,977

Total cost reduction  USD    -      -       -        67,040    79,080  79,080      79,080

Investment            USD                 146,929    300,787  140,000

Net flow of benefits  USD    -      -    (146,929)  (233,747) (60,920) 79,080      79,080

FRR                        11%

NPV (USD)                  13,376




                                         29

     Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
         Names                            Title                  Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Kari Homanen            Water and Sanitation Engineer            ECSIE TTL
Walter Stottmann         Sector Manager                          ECSIE Sector Manager
Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez Environmental and Water Engineer        ECSIE Engineer
Olli Lento               Water and Sanitation Engineer           ECSIE Engineer
Augusta Dianderas       Consultant, Water/Sanitation Specialist ETWAN Consultant
Sumter Lee Travers      Water and Sanitation Economist           ECSIE Economist
                         Water and Sanitation
Takao Ikegami                                                   ECSSD  Engineer
                         Engineer/Procurement Specialist
                                                                       Senior
Karl Skansing            Senior Procurement Specialist           ECSPS Procurement
                                                                       Specialist
Alexander                                                              Procurement
                         Procurement Specialist                  ECSPS
Roukavichnikov                                                         Specialist
Ayse Kudat               Social Scientist                       ECSSD  Social Scientist
Bulent Ozbilgin         Social Scientist                               Social Scientist
Loup Brefort             Financial Analyst                       ECSPS Financial Analyst
Richard James            Consultant                             MNSSD Consultant
                                                                       Financial
Clifford S. Isaak       Financial Management Specialist          ECSPS Management
                                                                       Specialist
                                                                       Disbursement
Lidiya Petrashova        Disbursement Analyst                   ECCU1
                                                                       Analyst
                                                                       Senior Financial
Andrew Mackie            Senior Financial Management Specialist  ECSPS Management
                                                                       Specialist
                                                                       Program
Maria Teresa R. Lim     Program Assistant                       ECSSD
                                                                       Assistant
                                                                       Senior Water &
Alexander Danilenko      Senior Water & Sanitation Specialist   ETWWP Sanitation
                                                                       Specialist
Klas B. Ringskog         Peer Reviewer                          ECSSD  Peer Reviewer
Vincent J. Gouarne       Peer Reviewer                          CSFDR  Peer Reviewer


Supervision/ICR
Kari Homanen            Water and Sanitation Engineer            ECSIE TTL
                                                                       Sr. Water &
Alexander V. Danilenko Sr. Water & Sanitation Specialist        ETWWP Sanitation
                                                                       Specialist
                                                                       Sr. Financial
Kishore Nadkarni        Consultant, Sr. Financial Analyst       ECSSD
                                                                       Analyst
                                                                       Sr. Procurement
Karl Skansing           Sr. Procurement Specialist              ECSPS
                                                                       Specialist


                                           30

Alexander                                                                   Procurement
                         Procurement Specialist                     ECSPS
Roukavichnikov                                                              Specialist
                                                                            Financial
Anna Zhouravleva         Financial Management Analyst               ECSPS   Management
                                                                            Analyst
                                                                            Disbursement
Tatyana Frolova          Disbursement Specialist                    ECCU1
                                                                            Specialist
Kevin Moforth            Engineer, DFID                             ECCU1   Engineer
Ashot Harutounian        Consultant                                 ECCU1   Consultant
                                                                            Sr. Financial
Galina S. Kuznetsova     Sr. Financial Management Specialist        ECSPS   Management
                                                                            Specialist
Manuel G. Mariño         Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist      LCSUW TTL
                                                                            Lead Water and
Vladimir Tsirkunov       Senior Environmental Engineer              ECSSD   Sanitation
                                                                            Specialist
                                                                            Technical
Rosalia Rodriguez-Garcia Technical Specialist                       ECSIE
                                                                            Specialist
Tatyana Shadrunova       Urban Specialist                           ECSSD   Urban Specialist
Irina Kazakova           Program Assistant                          ECCU1   Program Assistant
Luiz Gabriel Azevedo     Lead Water Resource Specialist             ECSSD   TTL
                                                                            Senior Financial
Galina Kuznetsova        Senior Financial Management Specialist     ECSPS   Management
                                                                            Specialist
Kanthan Shankar          Lead Operations Officer                    ECSSD   TTL
Maria Gavrilova          Program Assistant                          ECCU1   Program Assistant
Maria Teresa R. Lim      Program Assistant                          ECSSD   Program Assistant
                                                                            Water Resources
Shelley McMillan         Water Resources Specialist                 ECSSD
                                                                            Specialist




(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
(all fields are pre-populated by the system)

        No.       Date ISR Archived        DO              IP          Actual Disbursements
                                                                           (USD mil.)
         1           04/03/2001        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                0.00
         2           12/13/2001        Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory               0.00
         3           04/23/2002        Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory               0.00
         4           06/24/2002        Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory               0.00
         5           09/04/2002        Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory               0.00
         6           02/12/2003        Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory               3.23
         7           04/10/2003        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                3.23
         8           06/25/2003        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                3.71
         9           11/04/2003        Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory               4.16
         10          05/17/2004        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                5.62
         11          12/15/2004        Satisfactory    Satisfactory                9.54
         12          05/20/2005        Satisfactory    Satisfactory               12.55
         13          12/16/2005        Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory              17.67


                                           31

      14            05/15/2006         Moderately         Moderately                23.46
                                      Satisfactory       Satisfactory
      15            08/09/2006        Satisfactory        Satisfactory              27.20
      16            01/14/2007        Satisfactory        Satisfactory              38.02
      17            03/29/2007        Satisfactory        Satisfactory              40.58
      18            10/17/2007        Satisfactory        Satisfactory              52.04
      19            05/04/2008        Satisfactory        Satisfactory              65.15
     20             10/16/2008        Moderately          Moderately                71.49*
                                      Satisfactory       Satisfactory
*The final disbursement was USD 73.87M as of end of grace period April 30, 2009..




                                           32

      Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
                              (all fields are pre-populated by the system)


                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                        USD Thousands
   Stage of Project Cycle
                                  No. of staff weeks                    (including travel and
                                                                        consultant costs)
Lending
FY95
FY96
FY97
FY98
FY98                                                                                        740,203.34*
FY99                              41.56                                                      173,528.69
FY00                              41.26                                                      149,836.54
FY01                              14.46                                                        52,188.01
FY02                              14.05                                                        60,680.05
FY03                              28.10                                                      100,887.38
FY04                              15.60                                                      143,380.45
FY05                              10.43                                                        94,745.81
FY06                              19.89                                                      127,480.04
FY07                              28.95                                                      154,739.31
FY08                              22.35                                                        88,959.91
FY09                              13.48                                                        62,939.19
* SAP was introduced in 1999, so this amount includes all expenses incurred for project preparation prior to fiscal
year 1999.




                                                    33

                               Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

82.     A social assessment was conducted from May-July 2008. The main objective was to
assess the social and economic outcomes of the Projects from the point of view of achievement
of the project objectives, interests and needs of the key stakeholders.

83.     The key indicator of effectiveness of the project for this survey was the degree of
satisfaction of beneficiaries (these include both households/local population and project
implementing entities), and their opinions regarding the project outcomes. The main method of
the survey was individual semi-formalized interview of representatives of three stakeholder
groups identified as follows: city administrations, water and wastewater service providers and
service consumers. The interviews were conducted in two cities which participated in the project
(Volkhov and Briansk). The respondents selected in the cities administrations were compared on
the basis of their awareness and degree of participation in the project. The respondents from the
service consumers were selected based on the principle of identification of the "opinion leaders",
i.e. those people who can influence opinions of the community members and represent their
interests in the issues of water/wastewater services issues (e.g., senior resident in the house,
Housing Owners Associations chairmen, local activists, etc.).

84.     The main conclusion is that although implementation of the large-scale MWWP project
with a large number of participating cities did not bring into effect the creation of the diversified
sector of the communal services in the participating cities, the project's participants received
good and useful experience in implementing investment projects, including necessary skills for
business planning and management. The gained experience enables the cities' administrations
and their communal sector companies to evaluate the possible effects and outcomes of other
potential projects implementation and to further improve the strategy for the Housing and
Communal Services (HCS) sector reform and development more clearly and efficiently.

85.     The experts interviewed in the course of the survey stated that the IBRD project
demonstrated the potential of the HCS sector modernization, and that the cities would be in favor
to continue the communal services modernization subject to availability of necessary financing.
Also, experts interviewed in the cities believed that the participation in the MWWP changed the
psychology and attitude of the HCS sector players (in particular, in terms of necessity of the
energy efficiency efforts) and enabled the local administrations and utility companies to come up
with respective technology and business solutions by providing them with skills for business
planning and preparation of feasibility studies and tender documents. Now the cities would feel
more comfortable both in case they need to prepare the projects to be financed both from public
money, and in case they develop supporting documents to apply for financing from other credit
and financial organizations, including international ones. At the same time, the experts pointed
out that the project did not result in development of economically efficient model of mutual
relations between the communal service consumers and providers. The experts believe that the
main obstacle here is the existing legislative limits on the size and methods of communal
services payments.

86.     As to the population in the MWWP participating cities, the level of awareness about the
project activities and support from the local citizens is rather high, even though the local
administrations and/or vodokanals did not necessarily undertake any special information
campaigns. The study confirmed that as a result of modernization of the water supply network,

                                               34

the quality of water increased in the whole districts of the cities that helped to decrease the
previously existed social tension caused by the different quality of water supplied in different
urban districts. The construction of sewage collectors led to decrease of accident rates and
allowed for connection of additional urban districts to these collectors. After completion of
works under MWWP contracts, a number of complaints from the population decreased and, from
the other hand, the communal service providers became more efficient in reacting to and
resolving the accident situations. Moreover, the city population often received additional indirect
benefits from the constructions conducted in the framework of the project in form of
accompanying landscape and greenery works and therefore improved ecological conditions.

87.    At the same time, the authors of the survey noted that the MWWP project would have
accomplished even more positive impact on the population wellbeing if it had been focused not
just on rehabilitation and construction of "external" water supply and sewage networks, but also
had been included rehabilitation of the internal plumbing systems inside dwellings, as that is also
very important in order to ensure quality of water, uninterrupted water and heat supply, and to
decrease the threat of flooding of the living area by sewer effluents. There should be joint work
among the providers of the communal services, managing companies and population in order to
accomplish a comprehensive social impact. In this regard, the authors outlined the unchanged
mentality of the population who treat communal services as a social good and are not ready for
market relations in HCS sphere as one of the main constraints which hamper development and
reforming of HCS sector in Russia.




                                              35

      Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

NA




                           36

           Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Background

88.     The loan borrowed by the Russian Federation to improve quality of water and wastewater
services in a number of Russian cities proved to be the most important financial tool for
implementation of the Housing and Communal Services Reform and Modernization Subprogram
of the Housing Federal Targeted Program for 2002-2010 approved by the RF Government
Resolution on November 17, 2001 (No. 797).

89.     The Loan proceeds invested in rehabilitation and modernization of water and wastewater
systems in the participating cities prevented major breakdowns in the networks and other water
and wastewater facilities, provided these facilities with modern equipment, improved stability of
water and wastewater systems operation and, consequently, improved reliability and quality of
water and wastewater service provision and reduced energy costs. In addition, rehabilitation of
wastewater networks and facilities in the participating cities reduced water pollution by urban
wastewater effluents and allowed for broader housing development.

90.     Procurement experience, methods and documents prepared and conducted under the
Project in compliance with the IBRD requirements are used by water and wastewater companies
on a regular basis in public procurement. The Project also encouraged participation of local
construction and design organizations in implementation of water and wastewater rehabilitation
activities; and local companies acquired valuable experience of bid proposal preparation and
bidding for design, construction and supply contracts.

91.     Technical assistance provided under the Project (i) facilitated studying of international
experience by staff of regional and municipal administrations; they have already used it in their
routine operations; and (ii) resulted in several valuable proposals to water and wastewater
companies to improve performance quality and efficiency.

92.     Project outcomes are sustainable and furthermore, the Project stimulated the regional and
local authorities and water and wastewater companies to source additional investment for
modernization of the water systems.

Project Rationale

93.     Persistent lack of finance in the water and wastewater sector in the years preceding the
Project caused significant deterioration of the physical infrastructure in a number of Russian
regions. In many cases appreciation of fixed assets reached 60-70%. In addition, water and
wastewater services were not in accordance with modern quality standards in the sector and were
not meeting population requirements.

94.     The municipal authorities, who are the primary service providers, faced these problems
without adequate finance at hand or regularly replenished budget allocations.




                                              37

95.     According to IBRD experts, to approach the level of water and wastewater services
provided in the Western Europe and in the Northern America, investment of about USD 50
billion would, probably, be required. Adequate treatment of wastewater to prevent water
pollution would roughly require additional USD 20 billion. Therefore, the RF Government
requested assistance from the international community in the form of consultations and required
financing.

96.     The Project concept emerged in 1996-1997 in the process of water and wastewater sector
studies conducted by the World Bank and the RF Government. The Project preparation took
place from 1997-2001 with participation of the executive authorities at the federal, regional and
local levels by a group of Russian specialists supported by international consultants and the Bank
project team. On January 14, 2002, the RF Government issued Resolution No. 14 "On signing
the Agreement between the Russian Federation and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development on a Loan towards Financing of the Municipal Water and Wastewater
Project".   On February 8, 2002, the Russian Federation and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development signed the Loan Agreement No. 4593-RU that stipulated
extension to the Russian Federation of an IBRD loan to support implementation of the Municipal
Water and Wastewater Project in amount of US$ 122.5. The Loan Agreement became effective
on September 13, 2002.

97.     Hence, because of the late loan effectiveness, the Russian Federation had only slightly
more than three years instead of five years stipulated by the Loan Agreement for the agreed
Project activities implementation. Given the above and a number of other factors, the Project
Closing Date was extended till June 30, 2008, except contract MWWP-UFA-A1-03 "Completion
of construction of the starting set of wastewater treatment facilities in the city of Ufa on the right
bank of river Belaya" the closing date for which was extended till December 31, 2008.

Major Issues of Project Implementation

98.     Out of the list of water and wastewater companies in the cities of the Russian Federation
prepared by the Rosstroi in accordance with the selection criteria offered by the World Bank, the
Russian party and the World Bank identified vodokanals in 14 cities of the Russian Federation as
participants of the Project.

99.     A long period of preparation, obtaining agreement and signing the Loan Agreement
(1997-2002) was a key reason of problems in the Project implementation. In addition, the new
Budget Code of the Russian Federation did not allow a number of regions to provide guarantees
for the vodokanals as stipulated by the Loan Agreement and therefore eight out of 14
participating vodokanals named in the Project Appraisal Document were dropped. The number
of sub-loans signed by six vodokanals as of the date of Loan Agreement effectiveness was USD
12.5 million.

100.    Under the circumstances Rosstroi and NFHR supported by the RF Ministry of Finance
and IBRD sought to include new vodokanals in the list of participants. In various cities of the
Russian Federation, physical condition of water and wastewater systems of over 40 vodokanals




                                               38

was assessed. These data and analysis of the financial status of these companies were provided to
the IBRD for review and making a decision regarding their option to participate in the Project.

101.    Upon agreement with Rosstroi and RF Ministry of Finance, the IBRD selected new
Project participants: vodokanals of Rostov-on-Don, Novocherkassk, Taganrog (Rostov oblast),
Berezniki, Kungur, Chernushka (Perm kray), Bryansk, and Tambov.                   However, design
documents for implementation of activities in vodokanals of the above cities did not meet the
IBRD requirements. Finalization of these designs and preparation of bidding documents in
accordance with the IBRD requirements took significant time.

102.    Later on, with the entry of private operators to the water and wastewater services market
and renting vodokanal assets to them, administrations of Berezniki (Perm oblast) and Tambov
recalled their guarantees and, consequently, the sub-loan Agreements with the above cities were
cancelled.

Initially the Project was prepared by international consultants who overestimated its impact on
the water and wastewater sector reform at the federal level.

103.    It is worth mentioning that the loan disbursement schedule prepared by the IBRD
consultants during Project preparation did not take into account the length of design and bidding
documents preparation stage. At this stage, disbursement was insignificant and it distorted the
actual Project progress image: a large scope of work was done but the volume of disbursement is
incomparable with the period of construction and procurement of equipment.

Lessons Learned

104.    Involvement of executive and legislative authorities of all levels as early as at the Project
preparation stage was a key to securing the maximum use of borrowed funds, proper
identification of targets and scopes of activities in subprojects. The Project encouraged additional
investment in water and wastewater sector development from regional and local budgets, as well
as from economic entities.

105.    The Project implementation experience showed that preparation to disbursement requires
long periods. In preparing the disbursement schedule, it must be taken into account that the
initial stage (preparation of TOR and designs, obtaining agreements on them, bidding process,
etc.) requires equally as much time as construction works and equipment supply and installation.

106.    Consultant services as part of TA were a significant part of the Project. Consultant
services allowed reducing costs and making optimal decisions aimed at successful achievement
of the Project goals and objectives.

107.    Financial control systems run under the Project ensured targeted use of the borrowed
funds, strict financial discipline and meeting the requirements of the Loan Agreement by the sub-
borrowers. An important outcome of the Project is experience of conducting bidding procedures
for disbursing the Project proceeds.




                                                39

108.   The Project helped in strengthening local design and construction organizations, provided
new jobs.

109.   An important conclusion based on the Project outcomes analysis is that the Projects needs
continuous public support. At the very early stages of preparation of such projects, clarifications
and comprehensive information should be provided to public regarding the project goals and
objectives, mechanisms and realistic implementation deadlines and costs. This work should be
done particularly carefully and competently with those who directly influence the project
implementation ­ executive and legislative authorities.




                                             40

            Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

SIDA reviewed the ICR and had no specific comments. The Bank shared the ICR with DFID but did not
receive any comments from them.




                                             41

                           ANNEX 9. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS

   1. Environmental Data Sheet for Projects in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program dated October
   20, 1999

   2. Project Implementation Plan (PIP) dated January 18, 2000

   3. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President: Russian Federation Municipal
       Water and Wastewater Project (MWWP) dated November 13, 2000

   4. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) dated November 30, 2000

   5. Environmental Assessment dated December 09, 2000

   6. Updated Project Information Document (PID) of December 12, 2000

   7. Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports (PSRs) and
       Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)

   8. Financial Monitoring Reports

   9. Borrower's Evaluation Report

   10. Conformed Copy of the Loan Agreement No. 4593 RU dated February 8, 2002




**including electronic files




                                            42

      ANNEX 10: EXAMPLES OF ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES

110.    Some examples illustrating the achievement of the Project development objectives are
described below in relation to the investments made under the component 1 of the Project. For
simplicity, the types of activities fall under four categories as follows:

1. Improvement of pump stations efficiency and energy efficiency (Vologda, Volkhov, Rostov,
    Novocherkassk, Cheboksary, Gagarin, Taganrog)

111.    The set of activities implemented in Vologda improved efficiency of pump stations in
maintaining sufficient head pressure in water networks, provided for metering of water supplied
by these pumps, developed and commissioned the automated control system of 12 pump stations
(SCADA). Electricity saving at the above facilities amounted to 21.3% in 2006 and 23% in 2007.

112.    After implementation of the sub-project in Gagarin, the vodokanal is saving on electricity
consumption by distribution pumps. In 2007, estimated vodokanal's savings of electricity
amounted to 147.8 thousand kW/h per annum (22.5%) on Stolbovo water intake; and 257.3
thousand kW/h per annum (39.2%) on the Tsentralny water intake.

113.    The activities implemented in Cheboksary improved efficiency and reliability of the 1st
stage water pump station. Over 2004-2007, electricity savings after sub-project implementation
amounted to 6 717 thousand kW/h (or RUR 11.9 million). This sub-project will have an annual
effect of saving RUR 8.3 million.

114.    Energy efficiency activities implemented in Kungur ensured vodokanal's electricity
savings of 342 020 kW/h (9%) in 2006 vs. the base period (2004). Reduction of water loss and
electricity saving resulted in improvement of the company energy efficiency indicators from 0.69
kW/m3 in 2004 to 0.64 kW/m3 in 2007.

115.    Annual saving of electricity in vodokanal of Volkhov resulting from implementation of
the sub-project amounted to 894 895 kW/h (25%) in 2006 vs. 2003.



2. Improvement of service quality and reduction of water losses (Rostov, Vologda, Pechora,
    Novocherkassk, Cheboksary, Pskov, Kungur, Chernushka)

116.    Replacement of equipment on the 1st stage pump station, on treatment plants, installation
of water quality control devices and flow meters on water treatment plant in Cheboksary was
followed by development of the dispatcher system, which had a positive impact on reliability of
water supply system operation. As a result, the number of breakdowns reduced from 1.1 to 0.9
per one kilometer of water lines and from 0.3 to 0.2 per one kilometer of wastewater lines.
Apartment meters provision rate grew by over 20%, which resulted in more prudent consumption
of water.

117.    In Kungur, with installation of water consumption metering and reduction of the number
of hydraulic shock breaks-through, the loss factor decreased from 0.32-0.34 in 2004-2006 to 0.15


                                                 43

after sub-project implementation. Reduction of water step-up and treatment cost by 1.5 times
allowed the vodokanal to cut water service tariffs.

118.    Mobile laboratory for detection of water leaks set up in Chernushka improved efficiency
of water networks in the city. This led to a saving on the cost of chemicals in the amount of
RUR 35,000 and reduced water loss on the average by 5% (RUR 1025 thousand). The total
savings amounted to RUR 1,060,000. Apart from the savings on chemicals, the sub-project also
had the following impacts: reduction of labor costs, automobile transport costs, machinery and
mechanisms service costs.

119.    One of the most important indicators of efficiency in relation to water supply networks is
reduction of the breakdown rate in the water supply system. On average, elimination of one
breakdown saves about RUR 40,000. In Pechora, the number of breakdowns decreased from 100
in 2005 to 48 in 2006 resulting in savings of RUR 2,025,000.

3. Improvement of potable water quality (Rostov, Kungur, Gagarin, Taganrog)

120.    With installation of water quality devices and reagents meters in the vodokanal of
Cheboksary consumption of coagulant was reduced from 70.1 mg/l to 46.6 mg/l. Savings have
already reached RUR 7.9 million and will amount to RUR 2.5 million per annum.

121.    The sub-project in the vodokanal of Gagarin provided a more effective quality control for
the potable water supplied to the network and lower expenses for the vodokanal since water
quality tests carried out by external organizations were no longer needed. These savings are in
the amount of RUR 70,300 per annum.



4. Reduction of untreated wastewater discharge and improvement of wastewater treatment
    (Ufa, Bryansk, Taganrog, Pechora)

122.    The sub-project implemented in Ufa has increased the capacity of wastewater treatment
plants and stopped the discharge of untreated wastewater into river Belaya. This has resulted in
the following environmental benefits:

    ·   Reduction of discharge of pollutants into river Belaya within the city boundaries by 20.3
        thousand ton a year, including heavy metals, oil products, biogenous elements, etc.,
        through elimination of discharge of untreated wastewater and improvement of wastewater
        treatment;
    ·   Closing of sludge beds after commissioning of the sludge mechanical dehydration plant
        will prevent pollution of river Belaya by wastewater sludge washed off sludge beds.

123.    Due to elimination of untreated wastewater discharge and improvement of wastewater
treatment, the payment for discharge of pollutants into water bodies (i.e. environmental fines)
will be reduced by RUR 117.6 million.




                                               44

124.  Installation of the sludge mechanical dehydration plant on wastewater treatment plants in
Pechora has reduced the environmental fines by RUR 215,000 per annum.




                                            45

MAP NO. IBRD 30622R




        46

