RESTRICTED
Report No.  P-955
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 2, 1971



INTERNATIOMAL DEVELOfl4ENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT ANFD RECCOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OlN A
PRC?OBSI CREDIT TC TIE aASH'EJITE
Kr5GDGQ OF JORDAN FOR A HIGOtAY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed credit
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $6 million to the Hashe-
mite Kingdom of Jordan for a highway project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      The proposed credit would be the first Bank Group operation in Jordan
since the Arab-Israeli war of June 1967. Projects ,hich had then been under
consideration, especially the extraction of potash from the Dead Sea, have
since been held in abeyance by the Government in view of the situation which
has prevailed in tihe aftermath of the war. The proposed highway project was
identified by a Bank/IDA mission in early 1969 as one of those projects which
cculd both help Jordan's present needs and be eventually integrated into the
country's long-tern dev-ellopment.  other high priority projects irn the fields
of education, powrer and water supply are currently under consideration for
financing by the Association in ccming years; joint financing with the Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development is contemplated for the powier project.
Efforts are required by the Government to identify and prepare projects which
would at the same tine be economically justified and help to solve Jordan's
unemployment problem. In this connection, the Bank Group has lent its assis-
tance to strengthen the machinery for planning, determination of priorities
and project preparation.  Meanwhile, the Government has resorted to work
prograrms intended to alleviate unemploynent among the large refugee population,
but these programs are chiefly of a relief nature.
3.      The proposed highway project was appraised in April/Nlay 1970.  Qring
to the civil disturbances which took place in th3e summer of 1973, negotiati:mn
were deferred nmtil it was ascertained that the project could Le carried out
under reasonably satisfactory conditions.  Megotiations w-ere he-d in Wiashing-
ton on Narcb 1-5, 1971.  The Government was represented by Lr. Odeh, Secretary
General of the Jordan Development Board and head of the delegation, M4r. Bino,
Undersecretary of Public Works, and Mr. sweiss of the Jordan Development Board.
Presentation of the proposed credit to the Executive Directors has been post-
poned until the response to international bidding procedures and the cost of
the construction portion of the project had been tested through tendering.
This process was satisfactorily completed in early N'Xay.



4.     The proposed credit, the fifth IDA operation in Jordan, would be
the first one in the field of transportation.  The following is a summary
statement of IDA credits to Jordan as of April 30, 1971.
Credit                                             Amount (US $ million)
Number Year    Borrower                Purpose      IDA      Undisbursed
18      1961   Kingdom of Jordan    Water Supply I 1.5
43      1963   Kingdom of Jordan    Water Supply II 2.5
44      1963   KLingdom of Jordan   Agricultural
Credit I       3.0          -
103     1967   Kingdom of Jordan    Agricultural
Credit II      3.0         0.9
Total now outstanding                              10 0
Total undisbursed                                               0.9
5.     Progress of the second agricultural credit project has been severely
affected by the June 1967 war. At that time, 30 percent of the Agricultural
Credit Corporation's (ACC) portfolio was frozen in the occupied territories,
and lending to, as well as collections from, West Bank farmers had to be
discontinued. The hostilities in the Jordan Valley which followed the
war and disturbances in the East Bank have also affected ACC's operations.
Its overall lending has been substantially smaller than projected in pre-
war conditions, and IDA disbursements slower than initially envisaged.
Except for 1969, a year in which internal security, favorable weather
conditions and improved management action enhanced ACC's collection rate,
the difficultied which originated with the war have been compounded by
droughts which reduced the repayment capacity of farmers.  The financial
situation of ACC has thus become almost critical. The reasons are at
present largely out of the Government's and ACC's control, but remedial
measures will be actively pursued as internal stability is restored.
6.     IFC has not made any investments in Jordan and has no operations
under consideration at present.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7. Borrower:             Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Amount:              US $6 million equivalent in various currencies
Purpose:             To finance the foreign exchange component of the
construction of a highway from Amman to Zarqa, and
related consultants services, the purchase of road
maintenance equipment and consultants services to
assist in a study of future land use and related
transport patterns of the Amman area.
Amortization:        In 50 years including a 10-year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments of 1/2 of 1 percea-h
from September 15, 1981 through iMarch 15, 1991 and
of 1-1/2 percent from Septe;mber 15, 1991 thrcugh
March 15, 2021.



- 3 -
Service Charge:      3/4 of 1 percent per annum
Estimated Economic
Return on the
Project              17 percent
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.     A report entitled "Appraisal of a First Highway Project - Jordan"
(PTR - 64a, dated May 21, 1971) is attached (No. 1).
9.     The transport needs of Jordan are served by a comprehensive net-
work of national and feeder roads and also, to a limited extent, by a
railroad. Air transport is only significant for international passenger
traffic. Road transport is by far the dominant mode of transport for both
goods and passengers; most imports and exports are transported by road
through either Beirut (in Lebanon) or the port of Aqaba, Jordan's only
direct access to the sea.
10.    The main part of the proposed project is the construction of a new
road about 18 km long between Amman and Zarqa. The proposed highway is a
key section of the road network of the country; it links two major cities of
the East Bank, where most economic activity and industries are centered, and
forms part of the main routes from Amman to Jordan's northern and eastern
neighbours. Important phosphate deposits are exploited about midway
between these cities and would be served by the proposed road, as would
be Jordan's only refinery, in Zarqa, and a cement plant near Amman. The
existing road, which is inadequate to handle present traffic, does not lend
itself to improvements on the scale required, and an entirely new highway
has become necessary; its construction and supervision by consultants
would be financed under the proposed credit. The distribution within Amman
of traffic from the Amman-Zarqa road caibe handled in the short term by an
existing city street. Even with improved traffic management, however, this
street is estimated to reach serious congestion towards the end of this
decade and additional capacity should then be available. The most appropriate
long-term solution for traffic distribution, which should be implemented
by that time, would be determined after a study of the city's future land
use and related transport patterns has been made, combined with a more
detailed investigation of the project road access corridor. As the effective
utilisation of the project road's capacity and the full realization of its
benefits in the future depend largely on providing solutions to this problem,
such a study, which will be carried out by consultants, has been included in
the project and will be financed under the credit.
11.    The project includes funds to meet the road mainten&nce department' s
most urgent requirements for equipment. These requirements will be verified
by USAID-sponsored consultants who will shortly complete a review of the
organization and operations of the road maintenance department of the
Ministry of Public Works. In addition the Credit Agreement obligates the
Borrower to implement the findings of this study on organisational and
operational improvements, as agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association.



12.     As mentioned in paragraph 3 above, bidding for the construction
contract has already been completed, and the cost estimates for the
project road are based on the lowest of the contractors' bids received.
The total cost of the project is estimated at $8.7 million, of which
$6.2 million is for road construction, $0.5 million for purchase of road
maintenance equipment and $1.0 million for consultants' services; a
contingency allowance of $1.0 million has been included to allow for
possible increases in physical quantities and price escalation during
the implementation of the project. The proposed credit would finance the
foreign exchange component of the project which is estimated at $6.0
million.
13.     The project will be executed by the linistry of Public WJorks with
the assistance of qualified consultants. The construction contract was
bid on the basis of unit prices after international competition, in
accordance with the Association's "Guidelines on Procurement". Bids
were received from eight contractors from six different countries and
the Jordanian authorities propose to award the contract to the lowest
bidder, a British/Jordanian joint venture. The Borrower is awaiting
the Association's action on the proposed credit before awarding the
contract. Procurement of maintenance equipment will also be subject
to international competition.
14.     On the basis of the costs quoted above and of the estimated saving.g
in vehicle operating costs and time, the proposed highway investment is
expected to yield a 17 percent rate of return to the economy. Military
traffic on the road has not been included in the calculation of the
economric return.
P.LT IV - LEGAL INSTRUMIENTS AP3D AUT-HORITY
15.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan ald the Association, the Recommendation of the
Committee provrided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and the text of a Resolution approving the
credit are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
The draft Development Credit Agreement follows the usual pattern of
agreements for similar road projects.
PART V - THE ECONOITY
16.     An updating memorandum on the current Economic Position and
Prospects of Jordan (EIIA-37a, dated May 21, 1971), including a basic
data sheet is attached (No. 2). The conclusi6n af this memorandut is
that Jordan is not creditworthy for borrowing on conventional terms, and
continues to depend on forei6n grants and assistance on soft terms.



PART VI - CWL|LIAI'.E WITH ARTICLES OF KGREMENT
17.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - REC2DENDATICN
18.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Attachmlents                          Robert S. McNamera
President
June 2, 1971



